Af        J5   S               5      44L_-
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5520-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
pROPOSED AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$400 MILLION
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
MAY 29, 1991
Ths document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipieots only in the performance of
teir official dutkes Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed witht World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY UNIT - PESO (MEX$)
On May 27, 1991, the exchange rate in the controlled market was
US$1 = Mex$2988.2; and in the free market US$1 = Mex$3002.75. The controlled
exchange rate is currently being devalued by four-tenths of a peso a day.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha) = 10,000 square meters (i2)
1 kilometer lkm) = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km ) - 0.39 square miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg) = 2,205 pounds (lbs)
1,000 kilograms = l metric ton (t) = 0.98 long ton
1 liter (1) = 2.26 gallons (gal)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRNCPL AB         TiOIS A   AONMS USED
AOSAL I            Agrlcultural Sector Adjustment Loan I
AOSAL IY           Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan SI
ALSAMEX            Altimentos Balanceados Mexicanos (Mexican Foodstuffs)
ANAOSA             Aseguradora Nacional Agricola (National Agricultural Insuranc- Agency)
ANOSA              Almacenes Nacionales de Doepsito (National Warehouses)
AZUCAR             Sugar Parastatal
BANRURAL           Banco Nacionol do Cr6dito Rural (National Rural Bank)
BORUCONSA          Bodegas Rurales CONASUPO (CONASUPO's Rural Warehouses)
ccC                United States Commodity Credit Corporation
CFE                Comtsi6n Federal de Electricidad (Federal Electricity CommissIon)
CICOPLAFEST        Intersecretarial Commission for the Control of Procesinlg and Use of
Pesticides, Fertilizers and Toxic Substances
CIF                Cost, Insurance ond Freight
CONAL              ComisI6n Naclonal de Alimentaci6n (National Food CommissSon)
CONADECA           Comisi6n Nacional del Cacao (National Cocoa Commission)
CONASUPO           Compaeif  Nacional de Substetencias Populares (National Food Supplies Company)
DICCONSA           Dietribuidora CONASUPO (CONASUPO Stores)
DIF                Programs do Deserrollo Integral do Is Familia (Program for the Integral
Development of the Family)
ENIaH              Encuosta Noclonal de Ingresos y Gastoe de lon Hogares (National Household
Income and Expenditure Survey)
ESL                Fxport Sector Loan
FERTIMEX           Fortilizantes Mexicanos (Mexican Fertilizers)
FIRA               Fideicomisos Instituidos en Relacion con Is Agricultura (Trust Funds for
Agriculture)
FOB                Free on Board
anP                Gross Domestic Product
GNP                Gross National Product
0OM                Government of Mexico
ICONSA             Industrias CONASUPO (COHASUPO Industries)
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
INCO               Instituto Nacional del Consumidor (National Consumer In* ttute)
INMECAFE           Instituto Mexicano del Caf6 (Mexican Coffee Institute)
IMF                International Monetary Fund
ZUSS               Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social (Mexiean Institute for Social Security)
INIFAP             Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales, Agrlcolas y Pecuarlas
(Agricultural R"earch Institute)
ISPL               Industrial Sector Pollcy Loan
LICONSA            Loche Industrializada CONASUPO (CONASUPO's Industrialized Milk Subsidiary )
NAFIN              Nacional Financiert, S.N.C.
PACTO              Economic Solidarity Pact
PASSPA             Programs de Apoyo de los Servicios do Salud para la Poblocl6n Abierta (Health
Services Support Program for the Uninsured Population)
PRONAL             Progroma Nasional de Alimentaci6n (National Food Program)
PRONASE            Productora Nacional de Semilla (National Seeds Producer)
PRONASOL           Programa Nacional de Solidaridad (National Solidarity Program)
PECE               Pacto pars ts Estibilizacion y et Crecimiento Economico (Pact for
Stabilization and Growth)
QRs                quantitative Restrictions
SARN               Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos (Ministry of Agriculture and
Hydraulic Resources
SECOFI             Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial (Ministry of Trade and Industrial
Development)
SEDUE              Socretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia (Ministry of Urban Development and
the Environment)
SHCP               Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (Ministry of Finance and Public
Credit)
SQE                Statement of Expenditures
SPP                Secretaria do Programacion y Presupuesto (Ministry of Budget and Planning)
SSA                Secretaris de Salud y Asistencia (Ministry of Health)
TABAMEX            Tabacos Mexicanos (Mexican Tobaccos)
TPL I              First Trade Policy Loan
TPL II             Second Trade Policy Loan
TRICONSA           Trigo Industrializado CONASUPO (CONASUPO's Industrialized Wheat)
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornmw.ce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank -   -zation.



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower and      Nacional Financiera S.N.C. (NAFIN)
Beneficiaryt
Guarantor:        United Mexican States
Executing Asency: Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito P(iblico (SHCP) through
Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos (SARH),
Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial (SECOFI),
Secretaria de Programacifn y Presupuesto (SPP), and Health
System [Secretaria de Salud y Asistencia (SSA) and other
entities of the health system]
Amount_           US$400 million equivalent
Termss            Repayment in 17 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Obiectives:       The AGSAL II is part of a program of Bank support to the
government's objectives of increasing the rate of growth of
agriculture, raising productivity and improving the
efficiency of the agricultural sector through better-
functioning output and input markets, and alleviating the
poverty of the most vulnerable population groups through
targeted food programs. This loan would support: (a) trade
and policy reforms that increase competition and reduce the
government's role in the production, planning, marketing,
storage and processing of agricultural products and inputs,
and by allowing more competition from the private sector;
(b) revision in the allocation of government expenditure in
consumer programs by eliminating generalized food subsidies
and increasing spending for improved targeted food
assistance and nutrition programs; and (c) the institutional
transition of SARH to a smaller but more effective role in
agriculture, emphasizing policy formulation and
implementation and basic regulatory functions.
Description:      The program includes measures to reform the price and trade
policy regime for agricultural products and their industrial
derivatives, abolish the system of mandatory production
planning for agricultural products, reduce and streamline
market regulations and barriers to entry and competition,
and make food consumption and nutrition programs more cost
effective and successful by increasing coverage and
improving targeting of the poorer population.
Benefits and      If the objectives outlined above are achieved, then the
Risks:           benefits accruing from the project may be significant.
Continuing liberalization of agricultural trade and prices
and streamlining of the regulatory environment will
contribute to expand agricultural production and better
resource allocation, improve real income and generate a
better nutrition and health status for the poor. There are



- ii -
few risks to this program. The government has carried
through its program of trade, deregulation and gradual price
liberalization as part nf the broader program of
stabilization and structural reform over the past five
years. Risks may be twofold. First, one important lesson
of economic history is that the macroeconomic climate must
be supportive of policy reforms. The key requirements are
fiscal discipline, a prudent monetary policy and a realistic
exchange rate. Second, the very purpose of agricultural
policy reform is to encourage improved resource allocation.
Changes in pattern of resource use are resisted by those who
benefit from the status quo. If governments do not
resolutely follow through with credible policy change, the
momentum for reform may be lost and the program endangered.
Over the past five years the Mexican record of overall
policy reform has been strong. The risks seem manageable
and are outweighed by the likely benefits of AGSAL II.
Disbursements:    The proceeds of the loan will be used to finance eligible
import expenditures, and statements of expenditures (SOEs)
will be used as a basis for the preparation of the
disbursement requests. The first tranche would become
available upon loan effectiveness, expected in July 1991,
and the second tranche, expected in August 1992, on
fulfillment of specific conditions related to progress in
implementing the program and general conditions on
macroeconomic consistency and satisfactory execution of the
program.
Appraisal Report: This is a combined Staff Appraisal and President's Report.
Schedule of
Disbursementst    Schedule of Disbursements             Bank Fiscal Year
FY92    FY93
First Tranche                      200       _
Second Tranche                       -     200
Cumulative                         200      400



mXco
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY  .     .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i-i
PART I.   THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT  ....   ....       .              1
A. Macroeconomic Developments  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
B. The Debt Restructuring Package of 1989/90 . . . . . . . .  3
C. Oil Prices and the Macroeconomic Situation  . . . . . . .  4
D. The Real Exchange Rate  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..    4
E. Fiscal Consistency, Debt Management and the
Stabilization Program  ....  .   . .5.....  .  .  .  .   .  S
P. The Pacto/PECE and the Decline in Inflation since 1987  .  7
G. Medium-Term Finance for Growth  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
H. External Debt and Creditworthiness  . . . . . . . . . . .  9
PART II.  THE SECTORAL CONTEXT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
A.  Introduction .         . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . .  10
B.  Policy Issues for Agricultural Growth and Productivity .  11
1. Price, Trade Policy and Market Regulations . . . . .  11
a. Background and Actions Taken  . . . . . . . . . .  11
b. Proposed Actions  . . . . * ...... ... .  .   .  18
2.  SARH's Production Targets  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
3. Government Expenditure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
a. Credit and Input Subsidies  . . . . . . . . . . .  23
b. Investment Expenditure  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
C.  Food Consumption and Nutrition   . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
1.  Introduction ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .. .24
2. A New Food Consumption and Nutrition Strategy  . . .  26
a. Elements Already in Place . . . . . . . . . . .    26
b. Key Elements of the Long-Term Strategy  . . . . .  27
c. Constraints and Transition  . . . . . . . . . . .  29
d. Pilot Nutrition and Health Project  . . . . . . .  29
e. Maize Consumption Policy  . . . . . . . . . . . .  30



-ii -
Page No.
PART IIT.  GO'ERNMENT AND BANK STRATEGIES  . . . . . . . ..    . .   32
A. Government Strategy  . . .    .    . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
B. Bank Assistance Strategy . . . . .  .   . .. ....    33
C. Sectoral Composition of Bank Lending  . . . . . . . .   34
D. Poverty, the Social Sectors, and the Environment   . .   36
E. Collaboration with IFC .  . . . . . . . . . .  .  *. ..   37
PART IV.   THE PROPOSED LOAN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   37
A. Rationale tor AGSAL II . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   37
B. Amount and Loan Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   38
C. The Borrower, the Guarantor and Disbursements  . . . .   38
D. Procurement and Financial Management and Auditing  . .   39
E. Benefits and Risks   . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .   39
F. Cofinancing  .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   40
G. Negotiations, Effectiveness, Dated Covenants and
Second Tranche Release Conditions . . . . . . . . .   40
PART V.    COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   43
PART VI.   RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   43
ANNEX 1.   MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   44
ANNEX 2.   STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO . . . . . . . .   46
ANNEX 3.   POLICY LETTER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   48
ANNEX 4.   POLICY MATRIX . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   83
ANNEX 5.   RECENT POLICY REFORMS IN AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY MARKETS
AND PARASTATALS . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   92
A. Price and Trade Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   92
B. Parastatals    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  94
ANNEX 6.   FOOD CONSUMTION PROGRAMS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   95
A.  Programs  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  95
B. Brief Assessment of Targeted Programs  . . . . . . . .   100
ANNEX 7.   SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   103
MAPs IBRD 20343



ZNTEMRJZONAL RANK TOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DJ iLOPnTi
REPORT AND RI COIUNDATZONS OF TUE PRESWENT TO TME UXUCUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTUNUT
LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA S.N.C. ("AFix)
I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera S.N.C. (NAPINSA), with the guarantee of the United
Mexican States, for the equivalent of US$400 million in support of a program
for agricultural sector reform. The loan will have a term of 17 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PAR? I -TE MACROECONOMIC CONTExT
1.        Beginning with the economic crisis of 1982 and particularly since
1985, the Mexican government has been implementing a strong program of
economic stabilization and structural adjustment that has been supported by
the international financial community. The strategy of relying on
protectionism and public sector-led growth has been abandoned in favor of
promoting international competitiveness and private sector expansion. since
mid-1985 the cornerstone of the structural reforms has been far-reaching trade
liberalization, which in turn has promoted expansion and efficiency of the
tradable sector. The World Bank has supported trade policy reform with the
Trade Policy Loan I (TPL I) in July 1986 and the Trade Policy Loan II (TPL II)
in October 1987, each of US$500 million. In June 1989 the Board approved
three loans of US$500 million each to support adjustment programs in the
financial, public enterprise, and industrial sectors. In December 1989 the
Bank approved an interest-support loan of US$1.26 billion to support the
government's debt reduction plan and in June 5, 1990 an adjustment loan of
US$380 million to support policy reforms in the transportation and
telecommunications sectors.
2.        The Bank has maintained a close dialogue with the government on
agricultural and food policy and has supported the adjustment process with the
Agricultural Sector Loan I (AGSAL I) for US$300 million approved in March
1988. As a follow up to AGSAL I, the proposed Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Loan II (AGSAL II) would support reforms ins (a) price and trade policy in
agricultural output and inputs; (b) regulation in the production and
distribution of agricultural commodities and their industrial derivatives; and
(c) food consumption and nutrition policy.
3.        AGSAL II will support measures that fit in well with the
government's development strategy. With the stabilization program
consolidated successfully and the debt issue resolved, eccarmic policy will
shift toward the attainment of high and sustainable rates of growth and to
issues of poverty alleviation. These objectives will be furthered by
continued liberalization of Mexican agricultural markets and improved
productive efficiency as well as by reforms in trade and price policy,
government expenditure, and the regulatory environment. Poverty alleviation
will be improved by better targeting of food and nutrition programs to poor



- 2 -
and vulnerable households, especially in rural areas. Overall, increasing the
freedom to produce and trade in agricultural commodities will provide a strong
engine for agricultural growth.
A.   Macroeconomic Developments
4.        Between 1950 and 1974, Mexico enjoyed  high growth, low inflation,
and moderate external debt accumulation. Real growth averaged 6.4 percent,
and inflation was in single digits. This era came to an abrupt end in the
early 1970s. Government involvement in the economy expanded rapidly, and
increased public expenditure pushed up aggregate demand and the rate of
economic growth. However, the higher government expenditure was not matched
by rising public sector revenues. As a result, the inflation tax and external
debt became increasingly important sources of public finance. At the same
time a decline in savings incentives (real Interest rates turned sharply
downward) prevented a matching increase in private savings; external debt thus
increased, increased oil revenues notwithstanding. The period of single-digit
inflation ended in 1973, the peso started to appreciate in real terms, and
external debt accelerated above the GNP growth rate. A comparatively brief
crisis in 1976 terminated after major oil discc eries in 1977. The ensuing
prosperity lasted until 1982, when falling international oil prices, rising
world interest rates, and massive capital flight led to a refusal by external
creditors to roll over Mexico's short-term debt. This led to Mexico's
suspending interest payments on its external debt.
5.        The financial and economic crisis of 1982 brought on explosive
inflationary and balance of payments difficulties. Initial strong fiscal and
monetary adjustment efforts were undermined by external shocks such as the
collapse of international oil prices in 1986. Inflation accelerated,
partially in response to the sharp real devaluation of the exchange rate
necessitated by the 1986 downturn in the terms of trade. The subsequent de
facto targeting of the real exchange rate 1/, together with frequent wage and
cost adjustments, created instability in the system, culminating in a run on
the peso in the last quarter of 1987 and triple-digit inflation.
6.        The government responded in 1987 with the Economic Solidarity Pact
(Pacto), an agreement among business, labor, and government that called for
accelerated structural reform, further tightening of fiscal and monetary
policy, a freeze of minimum wages and of basic public and private sector
prices, and, the cornerstone of Pacto, a freeze of the nominal exchange rate
against the U.S. dollar. This partial freeze was extended at three-month
intervals through 1988 and was renewed in late 1988, with some modifications,
by the new Mexican administration. The main change under this renamed Pact
for Stabilization and Growth (PECE) was the daily adjustment of the exchange
rate--of one Mex$ peso against the U.S. dollar, later lowered to Mex$0.8
pesos and, most recently, to Mex$0.4 pesos per day. (PECE was recently
extended through 1991.) The fiscal measures, backed by the temporary exchange
rate freeze and an array of formal and informal wage and price controls, have
;/ The real exchange rate is defined as the price of foreign goods relative
to domestic goods. Appreciation thus implies a decline in this relative
price.



- 3 -
been dramatic in reducing the rate of inflation--from 159 percent in 1987 to
30 percent in 1990.
7.        Throughout this period of macroeconomic turmoil, Mexico has been
transforming itself into one of the most open economies in the world, through
extensive trade reform. Trade liberalization, mostly between 1985 and 1988,
has lowered the percentage of domestic (non-oil) tradeable production covered
by import quotas from 100 percent in 1984 to less than 15 percent at present.
Maximum import tariffs were cut by a similar magnitude. Non-oil merchandise
exports, which represented less than one-third of total exports in 1984, have
doubled their share since then.
8.        These "core" reforms have been complemented by many others.  In May
1989, foreign investment regulations were considerably relaxed and made more
transparent. The tax system underwent a series of reforms, bringing marginal
tax rates more in line with the levels in major industrial countries,
encouraging the repatriation of flight capital, and increasing the sanctions
for tax evasion. The impact of inflation on the (corporate) tax system was
eliminated by removing purely inflationary gains from the tax base. The
government initiated a parallel process of financial market liberalization,
abolishing ceilings on commercial banks' deposit interest rates, forcing
allocation of commercial credit toward favored sectors, and reducing credit
subsidies granted through official development banks. Recently, it was
announced that privatization of commercial banks, which were nationalized in
1982, would take place.
B.  The-Debt Restructuring Package of 1989190
9.        Despite Mexico's far-reaching reforms, international capital
markets did not provide the resources to bridge the difficult period when the
current costs of the economic reform program were not yet matched by the
(future) benefits of the program. The uncertainty caused by future transfer
problems--through the impact of transfers on the perceived sustainability of
the exchange rate regime and from there to domestic real interest rates--thus
directly threatened the survival of the stabilization program and the
restoration of economic growth. Therefore, in 1988, the government initiated
negotiationo to restructure its external debt.
10.       On September 15, 1989, the Government of Mexico and the Bank
Advisory Committee representing commercial bank creditors agreed to a
financing package to cover 1989-92, thereby restructuring USS48.9 billion of
Mexico's external debt. The agreement's menu of financing options included
two debt and debt service reduction facilities and four new money facilities,
which were implemented over eight months. A total of US$22.8 billion was
exchanged for par bonds at a fixed rate of 6.25 percent, and US$19.8 billion
for discount bonds at market rates, but with the principal reduced by 35
percent.
11.       The debt relief package reduced by almost US$4 billion per year the
net transfer that Mexico must make to its creditors from 1989 to 1994. This
is on average slightly below 2 percent of GDP. Half this amount results from
the lengthening of maturity implied by the deal, with the rest coming from
lower interest payments and new money disbursements from banks that did not



- 4 -
choose the debt service reduction options. The reduction in required external
transfers has a direct beneficial impact on Mexico's fiscal situation and its
likely output growth. However, at least as important have been the indirect,
secondary effects of renewed confidence. Reduced net external transfers mean
reduced pressure on the exchange rate, which greatly reduces the risk
associated with peso-denominated public sector debt. Nominal interest rates
fell from 56 percent to around 36 percent immediately after the details of the
package became known and fell a further 12 points to about 25 percent in early
1991. At the same time, the maturity structure of public debt has lengthened
considerably, another indication of private confidence.
C.   Oil Prices and the Macroecon2Mi. Situation
12.       In 1990, just as Mexico was looking forward to a feasible although
somewhat precarious economic recovery, the entire short-term outlook changed
because of events in the Middle East. The Gulf crisis clearly boosted
Mexico's oil revenue in the last four months of 1990. But the increased
volatility of oil markets since late-August has increased the uncertainty
about Mexico's future balance of payments and hence has complicated
macroeconomic management. Because of anticipated disruption in the oil
supply, the benchmark West Texas intermediate oil price--US$16 per barrel as
recently as last July--shot up to more than US$37 pb in October 1990.
Mexico's oil price responds to this benchmark after about a one-month lag,
with a typical negative price difference of around US$3.50 (changes in
Mexico's export mix may affect this difference). After the Gulf war started
in January 1991, however, the West Texas oil price dropped to around US$21 pb.
There is a possibility that oil prices may fall substantially below current
levels now that the war is ended. This illustrates how uncertain Mexico's oil
export prospects remain, and in fact, at current oil prices the value of
Mexican oil exports in 1991 will be lower than in 1990. The Mexican
Government has therefore wisely devoted the entire windfall gain to the
repurchase of public debt and has submitted a budget to congress based on this
strategy (the budget assumes that the oil price will be US$17 per barrel, on
average, for 1991).
D. The Real Exchange Rate
13.       Exchange rate policy in Mexico is complicated because the nominal
exchange rate remains an important ingredient of PECZ. But with price and
wage rigidities still prevalent--also because of PECE--the nominal exchange
rate policy cannot be separated from real exchange rate developments.
14.       Mexico's real exchange rate shows a somewhat ambiguous trend (see
Figure 1). Measured against U.S. wholesale prices, much of the increase in
competitiveness that occurred during the 1986-87 real depreciation has been
lost; however, the economy is now back where it was around 1984-85, with
competitiveness improved by about 36 percent over the clearly unsustainable
level of 1981.
15.       Since 1981, the real price of oil has dropped by almost 30 percent,
trade barriers have been reduced, and government expenditure (most of which is
for Mexican goods) has been reduced drastically. These changes would call
for a real depreciation, although it is hard to judge whether 30 percent
against U.S. producers is enough. There is some additional reason for concern
(see second line in Fig. 1) in terms of competitiveness as measured not



- 5 -
against U.S. producers, but against other countries exporting to the U.S.
(note the use of the U.S. import unit value as the foreign price index).
Since other exporters by and large                       Figure I
have not followed the U.S. dollar up--
but followed It down--Mexico's
increase in competitiveness in the                MElC. REL ECHANGE RATE
early 1980s was smaller, but its                   Of MW kWrIs. A* 1@a)
subsequent loss of competitiveness was        1A -        k
not.  The net result is that, measured         w     ,    x
against other exporters to the U.S.,    *-r
Mexico is 24 percent more competitive
now than it was in 1981 and only 12
percent more competitive than in 1980.
16.       Attaching much weight to                  b_  SW
such trends demands caution.
Structural. changes in Mexico and in
its export markets, changes in
macroeconomic policy both abroad and in Mexico, and so on, limit the relevance
of the past real exchange rate for an assessment of current competitiveness.
In the first half of 1990 there was a legitimate reason for concern: the
strong expansion in private demand that is behind Mexico's widening trade
deficit did not seem to translate into increased demand for Mexican goods
since GDP growth slowed to below 2 percent. This could have signaled an
overvaluation of the real exchange rate, especially since manufactured exports
also slowed down significantly. If increased aggregate demand does not spill
over to increased sales of Mexican goods, it could be that these goods are too
expensive, i.e. that the real exchange rate is overvalued. However, more
recent data do not support such an interpretation. Manufactured exports
strongly recovered in the third quarter of 1990 and in the first two months of
the fourth quarter by more than 20 percent. GDP growth recovered as well, up
to 5.5 percent in the third quarter and, on a preliminary basis, 5 percent in
the last quarter of 1990. Strong export sales and increased sales of Mexican
non-oil goods (i.e  high GDP growth) do not support an interpretation of
overvaluation of tne real exchange rate.
17.       Of course third- and fourth-quarter data may be misleading in that
they indicate a temporary surge rather than a return to a trend. Thus,
continued monitoring will be important. In this context, it should be noted
that Mexico is about to enter the third year of an Extended Fund Facility
(EFF) with the IMF; under that program the exchange rate and more external
competitiveness are key variables being monitored on a quarterly basis.
S. Fiscal Consistencv. Debt Manacement. and the Stabilization Prooram
18.       Previous sections concluded that Mexico is likely to achieve
satisfactory output growth over the years, depending on whether supportive
macroeconomic policies are in place and if private sector development
materializes. So that entrepreneurs will be convinced that the favorable
current environment is permanent, the credibility of the government's program
is an essential precondition for a private sector-led investment program to
succeed.



- 6 -
19.       Very little is known about what establishes macroeconomic
credibility, but a great deal is known about what will destroy it. In
particular, inconsistency is at the core of many recent stabilization
failures--between on the one hand, fiscal policy, solvency constraints on the
debt issue, and the resulting need for monetization and, on the other hand,
announced inflation targets, possibly embedded in an exchange rate rule.
Figure 2 summarizes the basic facts about fiscal deficits in Mexico. It shows
the primary and the operational surplus (a negative number indicates a
deficit) of the consolidated government, including all non-financial state
enterprises and the Bank of Mexico. The primary surplus is the most
fundamental indicator in that it measures the net transfer the government
makes with respect to all non-public agents in the economy. Subtracting all
interest paid on foreign debt and real interest payments on domestic debt
(shaded area) leads to the operational surplus.
20.       The figure highlights two important points.  First, Mexico's fiscal
adjustment over the past decade has been extraordinaryi its primary balance
turned from a deficit of 7 percent of GDP into a surplus of around 5 percent
in the mid-1980s. This surplus further increased to between 7 and 8 percent
of GDP in the last couple of years. The period over which the adjustment has
been sustained is as impressive as its extent. The second point has to do
with the extreme volatility of interest payments on domestic debt. While
interest payments on foreign debt have not varied much, except for the break
caused by last year's debt deal, domestic interest payments rose from
basically zero in real terms (1987) to around 6 percent of GDP by 1989 and
fell to 2-3 percent of GDP in 1990.
21.       It is clear that Mexico's "heterodox" stabilization program was the
final phase of a long-running,
initially entirely orthodox effort to                   Figure 2
reduce inflation through fiscal
restraint alone.  When success did                   and Interest Payments
not result from the fiscal effort,             Deficits (nOfP)
however, and when inflation
accelerated in late-1987, the Pacto
with all its unorthodox components
was put in place.  The first question         a
this experience suggests is how much
fiscal adjustment is enough?
Mexico's adjustment has been                -t
substantial, but was it enough, given          s
the ambitious goal of eventually
reaching  single-digit   inflation?          _______________-_______-_o. ____
22.       A fiscal stance that does
not conflict with sustained low
inflation, even in the event of unfavorable external developments and
continued high real interest rates, is clearly necessary--although possibly
not sufficient--to allay inflationary fears. The fixed exchange rate regime
will be sustainable only if the inflation rate compatible with public finance
requirements is compatible with the inflation rate implied by the fixed
exchange rate itself. This in turn is the cornerstone of the PECE. Thus,
medium-term consistency requirements, when violated, signal great
complications in short-term macroeconomic management, which will require
restrictions on both the overall deficit and its mode of financing.



23.       The debt package of 1989/90 reduced annual interest payments by
about US$1.2 billion per year, or approximately 0.5 percent of GDP, through a
combination of lower debt volume and lower interest rates. This alone yields
a reduction in the equilibrium Inflation rate (i.e. the rate for which no
further fiscal adjustment would be necessary) by S percentage points, from 25
to 20 percent based on 1989 fiscal policy parameters. This is a significant
reduction, but by no means as dramatic as the impact of lower real interest
rates on domestic debt. At an average real interest rate of 10 percent
instead of 30 percent, the fiscal balance (which, at the 10 percent real rate
that obtained for 1990 and inclusive of the effects of the debt package, will
show an operational surplus of around 2 percent of GDP1 exerts no inflationary
impulse at alls it can be financed wlthout any reliance on monetary
financing. Thus, Mexico's dramatic fiscal adjustment is more than adequate
for the inflation targets, if the credibility problems that underlay the
extreme interest rates of the past can be overcome. The increase in inflation
in 1990 cannot be ascribed to lack of fiscal austerity, but instead to a
loosening of price controls and to adjustment of public sector and controlled
prices. There was thus a "catch-up" component to it. Some cautious optimism
about future inflation is therefore justified, even under continuation of
current policies.
F.   The Pacto/PECE and the Recline in inflation since 1987
24.       The Pacto/PECE was very successful:  inflation was more than halved
(from 159 to 52 percent) in 1988, and more than halved (to around 20 percent)
again in 1989. Some rebound occurred in 1990; inflation rose to 30 percent.
But the program clearly has been a success in having prevented a major
recession. In fact this period saw the beginnings of renewed economic growth
for Mexico.
25.       Pacto's early success demonstrates that a change of policy can be
made more credible, and strategic delays in price adjustments offset, by using
wage-price guidelines and a fixed exchange rate to signal the new policy
stance and snap a country out of a high-inflation equilibrium. But such
measures lose their effectiveness if sustained for too long since they
eventually signal not attainment of a new, low-inflation equilibrium but
rather the economy's failure to achieve it.
26.       Since inception of the Pacto/PECE, controlled prices and the prices
of goods provided by public firms have been lagging considerably behind non-
controlled prices and the prices of goods from private firms (see Figure 3,
where electricity prices are used as a proxy for controlled prices). The
figure shows another pattern, one that is revealing about Pacto/PECE's real
effect. Public prices, after lagging most of 1989, were adjuated in discrete
steps in December 1989, May 1990, and November 1990 (for a period extending to
end-1991). These adjustments clearly contributed to lower relative price
distortions; at the same time they triggered sharp increases in recorded
inflation, pushing inflation above the 1989 level in the process. By the same
token, the failure to adjust earlier has reduced recorded Inflation below what
it would have been under a more gradual adjustment process. What the erratic
adjustment pattern does is artificially lower recorded inflation in one year,
only to raise it in the next year parallel to the necessary catch-up
adjustments. Price controls by now seem to have become a mechanism for
temporarily postponing inflation.



27.       Pacto extensions (the latest                   Figure 3
in November 1990 until December 1991)
have in fact implemented reductions in
price controlus  currently only 25                Ratio of Eectrtctty price Index
percent of private sector prices                          over CPI.
remain under control, down from              "s 4
effectively 100 percent in 1988.                It   it
Moreover, remaining controlled and
public sector prices have been        t 
adjusted considerably. Thus, progress
has been made toward removal of
interference in private price-setting.                                wtb
Another indicator of the successful                          ht
stabilization and increased
credibility of the exchange rate
policy is the reduction in domestic
interest rates. Annual nominal
interest rates on public debt recently dropped to around 25 percent. These
rates are market determined, indicating that the private sector estimates
inflation will be considerably below last year's 30 percent rate.
0. Medium-Term Finance for Growth
28.       Mexico's general program of economic reform is well designed,
skillfully implemented, and now reaching a crucial phase as it tackles what is
by far the most distorted sector in Mexico--agriculture (see Part TI). Prior
to the Gulf crisis, the program offered a sound medium-term funding package,
although somewhat tilted to funding for its later years. Because of the high
cash outlays needed for the debt package and because of the time required to
translate direct foreign investment applications into actual projects, the
early years of the program were underfunded and the later ones overfunded.
For this reason, Bank strategy envisaged substantial structural adjustment
lending initially and a rapid phasing out after FY91.
29.       As indicated, the recent increase in oil prices has had a
substantial impact on the Mexican balance of payments. The windfall gains in
1990 do not translate into more leeway for Mexico, however: under the 1990
program agreed to with the IMF, additional oil revenues are matched, with a
small margin, by tighter reserve targets. As for the 1991 outlook, if the
average price of Mexican oil is indeed US$23 a barrel, as assumed in the
projections presented in this report, the windfall gain in 1991 would be
between US$2.5 billion and US$3.3 billion (based on the pre-crisis projection
of US$17.1 a barrel for 1991). Again, as indicated, Mexico's CY91 financing
gap is highly sensitive to assumptions about future oil prices--an average
1991 price of about US$24 a barrel will be required to close the financing gap
for the year. The government's intention of fully using any windfall for debt
reduction or reserve accumulation is likely to be reflected in the economic
program about to be negotiated with the IMF under the existing EFF agreement.
The Bank's lending program has been designed as a compromise. Adjustment
lending is cut back substantially to reflect the improved balance of payments
situation but is not fully eliminated. This is in recognition of remaining
rigidities and vulnerability because of the volatility of the major sources of
external funds.



- 9 -
30.       By cutting back but not eliminating adjustment lending, Bank
strategy recognizes both the short-run uncertainty about oil prices and the
need to safeguard the economy from future declines in the terms of trade.
Cutting back adjustment lending tends to reduce Bank exposure and increase its
capacity to respond flexibly in the event terms of trade decline. But
retaining some adjustment lending provides Mexico with predictable balance of
payments support in the event that the price of oil is lower than currently
projected. And in the event that current projections are realized, the
government can further "crisis proof" its economy through a domestic debt
retirement program tied to the oil windfall. This would enhance the
government's capacity to respond adequately in the future should the terms of
trade deteriorate once again. Domestic debt reduction will also reduce the
most volatile public expenditure item--domestic interest payments. (The
Bank's strategy for Mexico is discussed further in Part II).
H.   External Debt and Creditworthiness
31.       With  implementation of the commercial bank debt reduction package
in 1990, Mexico reduced the principal on its external debt by US$6.5 billion
through the issue of discount bonds. In addition, US$22.8 billion was swapped
for instruments carrying a fixed rate of 6.25 percent. Combined principal and
interest debt relief totaled US$12.9 billion. Finally, debt-equity swaps
equivalent to US$2.7 billion were auctioned in 1990, carrying an average 52
percent discount. However, implementation of the swaps is expected to take
place primarily in 1991. Despite commercial debt reduction, total gross
external debt rose slightly in 1990 to US$97.6 billion. This increase was due
mainly to additional multilateral and bilateral lending in support of the debt
reduction operation. Note that the debt figure does not net out the US$7
billion in collateral assets acquired by Mexico as part of the debt package.
In 1990 the Bank's share of Mexico's long-term debt and debt service increased
to 11.9 percent and 13.3 percent, respectively, while Mexico's share in the
Bank's total exposure rose to 11.3 percent. However, Mexico's total debt
service burden, which captures both principal and interest reduction,
decreased from 40 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services in 1989
to 32.5 percent in 1990. The ratio of total debt to GDP dropped from 47.6
percent to 43 percent during the same period. Thus, provided that the current
domestic economic policies continue, and the external environment remains
favorable for the execution of the policies, Mexico is considered creditworthy
for Bank lending.



- 10 -
PART II - THE SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. introduction
32.         For more than three decades, Mexican agriculture has been the
target of extensive government intervention. Overvalued exchange rates
supported by a battery of trade controls discriminated against all tradable,
including agriculture, while industrial sector protection reduced the
agricultural/nonagricultural terms of trade. Intervention through subsidized
foodstuff imports and selective price controls further reduced farmers,
incomes. Subsidies on credit, irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds, and other
inputs counterbalanced in part the lower prices for farm products while
parastatals expanded their roles in marketing, stor4ge, and processing. By
1985 Mexico had perhaps the most thoroughly regulated and state-controlled
trade and marketing regime in Latin America. The agricultural sector came to
depend primarily on the government for credit, technology, inputs, storage,
and processing. Government intervention, intended to aid the rural poor,
promote food self-sufficiency, and compensate for an inadequate marketing
infrastructure, actually benefitted the relatively better off farmers and
suppressed development of private markets, private storage, agroindustry, and
informal rural finance. As a result of these policies agricuitural growth has
been slow, the alleviation of poverty in rural areas limited, and private
investment low.
33.         The de la Madrid and Salinas administrations moved to reform many
of the detrimental policies, mainly in the macroeconomic and trade policy
areas, thereby sharply reducing the negative impact of indirect interventions
on agricultural growth and productivity. Exchange rate policy and industrial
trade policy have been reformed. For example, the coverage of non-tariff
barriers for most non-agricultural products has ceased, the tariff structure
has become simpler, more uniform, and less protective, and measures to
encourage exports are in place. In addition, some agricultural policy reforms
have been implemented: the government has restructured and reduced the size
of the parastatal sector, closed the government agricultural insurance agency
(ANAGSA), begun reform of the agricultural credit system, rationalized and
decentralized the Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources (SARH),
reduced subsidies on prices for fertilizer, electricity and water, and
reoriented public investment in agriculture toward rainfed areas and small-
scale irrigation projects. AGSAL I supported some of these reforms and many
actions taken went beyond the agreed conditionality (see paras. 45-48 and
Annex 5).
34.         Now with discrimination against agriculture reduced, important
reforms in agricultural policy are still necessary to exploit the full
potential of Mexican agriculture to earn foreign exchange, increase domestic
food supplies, and reduce food import dependency. The policy reforms under
the proposed AGSAL II will build on and go beyond actions taken up to this
moment and aim ats (a) increasing the rate of growth of agriculture, raising
productivity, and improving the efficiency of the agricultural sector through
better-functioning output and input markets; and (b) alleviating the poverty
of the most vulnerable population groups through targeted food programs.
Actions include: (a) trade and price policy reforms that increase competition
and reduce the government's role in the production, planning, marketing,



- 11 -
storage, and processing of agricultural products and inputs, by reducing
consumer and producer price controls, lifting import and export restrictions,
and allowing more competition from the private sector; and (b) revision in the
allocation of government expenditures in consumer programs by improving
targeted food assistance and nutrition programs, and assuring that poor
consumers are protected from the real income losses resulting from the
consumer price effects of agricultural protection of food commodities.
B. Policy Issues for Aaricultural Growth and Productivity
35.         Mexican agriculture's main problems have been its low growth rate,
inefficient use of resources, and stagnating productivity. The roots of these
problems are the direct policy interventions (price, trade and regulatory
environment) in output and input markets and the decline in -ublic investment
expenditure. The latter has probably led to a reduction in the stock of
physical capital and in the development and availability of new agricultural
technology.
1.    Price, Trade Policy and Market Reaulations
a.  Backaround and Actions Taken
36.         The government has set or strongly influenced consumer and
producer prices for major agricultural and agroindustrial commodities, using
international prices only as a reference. The most important objectives of
these interventions have been, first, to keep consumer food prices low and,
second, to raise rural income and achieve food self-sufficiency. During the
1980s the result of these policies was disappointing. Per capita agricultural
production declined, and efforts to maintain low food prices in the urban
areas led to large and growing consumer price subsidies. At the same time,
producer prices were depressed for some products.
37.         Farmaate prices.  Prices guaranteed to producers were set for
various crops each planting season (maize, beans, rice, wheat, barley,
sorghum, soybean, cotton seed, cartamo, sunflower, copra and sesame, plus
coffee, tobacco, sugarcane, and cocoa) and at the same level throughout
Mexico. This penalized production close to consumption centers and subsidized
production farther away. For food crops, CONASUPO channeled the subsidies
covering transportation, losses, and storage costs. Furthermore, prices were
adjusted infrequently during the year, distorting production decisions and
making private storage unprofitable.
38.         Because international prices, representing the opportunity cost of
domestic production, served only as a reference for domestic prices, the level
of producer prices relative to international prices has varied over time and
by crop. The ratio of domestic to international prices depends on the
prevailing exchange rate, government priorities, and the government's ability
to cover the differential between low consumer prices and high producer
prices. Because it became more difficult, for fiscal reasons, to maintain
high guarantee prices and low consumer prices, adjustments in the guarantee
prices have been moderate, and nominal rates of protection (NRP) are now lower
than their peak in 1980-1982. They are still high, however, for maize (around
70 percent), wheat (around 40 percent), barley (around 60 percent), and sugar
(around 80 percent).



- 12 -
39.         Agricultural commodities outside the guarantee price system also
have been subject to varying degrees of government intervention. This
intervention did not result in higher producer prices in general because
consumer prices (such as sugar) were controlled to favor the urban population.
Until the second half of 1989, government parastatals were actively involved
in the processing and marketing of major agricultural exports such as cotton,
tobacco, coffee, and cocoa. Bad management and inadequate price policies
generated large deficits and distorted market incentives. By liberalizing the
market for these commodities and dismantling the parastatals, the government
has reduced their drain on fiscal resources.
40.         Real producer prices of commodities under the guarantee price
system have experienced a long downward trend. In 1985-87 as a result of the
fiscal crisis, the government decided to reduce the consumer-producer price
differential for grains and oilseeds. Government expenditures for general
subsidies on grains and oilseeds declined sharply from 0.5 percent of GDP in
1985 to 0.24 percent of GDP and 0.005 percent of GDP in 1986 and 1987,
respectively. Combined with the desire to keep urban food prices low, this
caused real farmgate prices to fall. In December 1987, as part of the Pacto,
the government pledged to support real guarantee prices at their 1987 level.
This, with the pledge to keep consumer food prices low, resulted in new
subsidies for the production and consumption of agricultural products, that
reached 0.37 percent of GDP in 1988 and 0.74 percent of GDP in 1989. During
1990 the government adjusted consumer prices upward while keeping producer
price increases moderate, thereby reducing general government expenditure for
maintaining a difference between producer and consumer prices of food.
41.         Agricultural and Aaroindustrial Trade Recime.  As part of its
industrial development strategy, Mexico resorted to various trade
interventions that in the end favored industry and damaged agriculture. Since
mid-1985, however, these policies haye changed significantly. Key reforms
include more flexible management of the nominal exchange rate to promote the
tradeable sector, abolition of reference prices for imports, removal of
licensing for most imports and exports, and reduction in the level and range
of tariffs. (Some summary quantitative indicators of liberalization are shown
in Table 1 below.)
42.         On the import side, the tariff structure has been simplified and
made more uniform and less protective. Between June 1986 and February 1990,
the average tariff fell from about 24 percent to 12.5 percent, and the
dispersion among sectors declined by more than half, to about 6.2 percent.
Furthermore, the coverage of non-tariff barriers has been sharply reduced,
and, as a result, the fraction of tradable national production covered by QRs
has declined from 47 percent in June 1986 to 20 percent in June 1990, as
measured by 1986 production weights. For the non-mineral primary and
agroindustrial sectors (sectors 1-4 and 11-23 of the Standard International
Trade Classification (SITC)), import liberalization has not proceeded as fast;
about 30 percent of its production remains under QRs. Import barriers have
been sharply reduced for major agricultural inputs such as machinery and
pesticides. Thus, these overall and sectoral trade policy reforms have
reduced direct and indirect price discrimination against agriculture.
43.         Allowing the private sector to import basic foods, previously a
monopoly of CONASUPO also has progressed. However, some important
agricultural commodities still require import licenses, and CONASUPO retains



- 13 -
its monopoly on importing beans and powdered milk. A significant constraint
on competition in some areas iu that only industrial users are permitted to
import a particular commodity (for example, maize). The exclusion of trading
firms from importing goods is detrimental because, combined with the loss of
economies of scale in importing, their absence discriminates against small
processors. Food imports by the private sector also are constrained because,
under the PECE, some controlled consumer prices have remained significantly
lower than CIF import prices.
44.         For many products, export controls enforce the set price; beef and
rice are two important examples. consistent with AGSAL I conditionality
export controls for high-quality rice and cuts of beef were eliminated.
Export restrictions on fruits and vegetables, which represent 25 percent of
crop output, have also been lifted. Moreover, export restrictions have been
removed for other agricultural products.
Tabi1: TRADE LI8ERALIZATION, 1985-1990
Ju8  Dc   M86 D156 Jun87  De8  jun88  Nov89 Jun90
"imot Liesing gI        92.2  47.1  46.9  39.8  35.8  25.4  23.2  20.3  19.9
Refren Pfies A/        18.7  25.4  19.6  18.7  13.4   0.6   0.0   0.0   0.0
Tariff-Mauimum         100.0  100.0  45.0  45.0  40.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0
-Aveage h/          23.5  28.5  24.0  24.5  22.7  11.8  11.0  12.8  12.5
Export Control A/        n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  24.8  23.4  17.9  17.6
Real Effective         100.0  121.8  134.7  145.2  136.0  128.5  112.6  115.0  113.1
Exchane Rate gI
a' Percentage coveage of production of tadable; 1986 weights.
h/ Weighted by producdon of tradable; 1986 weights; excludes five percent surchurge.
g Inwase in the index reprsents a depreciation of the peso in real terms.
Soure: Ba of Mexco
45.         Mexico has made substantial progress in improving agricultural
policy to allocate resources in the sector more efficiently. (Further
details are presented in Annex 5.) Parts of this reform have been supported
by AGSAL I under which the government agreed to: (a) maintain during 1988
guarantee prices for agricultural crops in real terms at the base prices
prevailing on March 1, 1988; (b) set guarantee prices for 10 of 12 products in
the system (except for maize and beans) within a 90-125 percent range of
international prices, or within another range based on the results of a study
on the guarantee price system; (c) remove export controls on high-quality rice
and beef; (d) eliminate export controls or QRs on fruits and vegetables,
except for hygienic reasons; and (e) reduce QRs on imports of agricultural and
agroindustrial products by 5 percent of total national production from the
level of such production existing on November 30, 1986.
46.         The first condition under AGSAL I was intended to protect
producers from eroding prices.   The second condition reauired the movement of
10 auarantee 2rices into the 90-125 percent range of international prices.
The guarantee price system has been abolished for these 10 crocs (and retained
only for maize and beans). A decision has been announced to confine
CONASUPO's purchases of these crops to the quantities needed for the CONASUPO



- 14 -
distribution system only. This move represents a major step toward market-
determined prices. However, a system of orecios de concertaci6n was
introduced to encourage producers and industrial consumers to agree on prices.
For products like rice, sorghum, soybeans, copra, sunflower, sesame, cartamo,
and cottonseed where import permits have been eliminated, these prices are
close to international prices because import tariffs are equal to, or less
than, 20 percent.
47.         AGSAL I also required the removal of export controle on high-
quality rice and beef, fruits, and vegetables, except for hygienic reasons.
These conditions were fulfilled. Moreover, the government lifted export
permits for beef and cattle on the hoof (not just high-quallty cuts) and
decreed the gradual reduction and elimination by September 1, 1992, of the
tariff on exports of male animals weighing up to 280 kgs. Further detail. of
these reforms are provided in Annex 5.
48.         As part of the agricultural reform process aimed at enhancing
competition and improving resource allocation, the following actions have been
taken in outout marXetst
(a)   the differential domestic prices of sugar according to users were
eliminatedt
(b)   domestic prices of paddy rice, sorghum, soybean, green coffee and
cocoa are allowed to be freely determined by the market;
(c)   prices of roasted coffee and soluble coffee are allowed to
fluctuate following the international price for green coffee;
(d)   restrictive export practices for fruits and vegetables have been
eliminated;
(e)   import permits for sugar were eliminated and protection to the
industry is now granted through a variable levy system; and
(f)   import permits for sorghum, copra, oilseeds and oilseed oils
lifted;
(g)   restrictions that prevented entry into the corn-tortilla industry
were abolished.
49. *GSAL I started the dialogue between the Bank and the government
on agricultural policy and food consumption policy. AGSAL I was aimed at
promoting greater efficiency and higher productivity in the agricultural and
agroindustrial sectors, and supported reforms in the areas of consumer food
subsidies and their targeting, improvement of producer pricing policies,
privatization of parastatals, agricultural and agroindustrial trade
liberalization, streamlining and decentralizing of the Ministry of Agriculture
and rationalization of public investment in agriculture. Some of the actions
taken by the government were beyond the conditionality agreed under AGSAL I,
in particular on price and trade policy, decentralization and streamlining of
the Minlstry of Agriculture, and privatization and parastatal reform.



- 15 -
50.         AGSAL II continues and deepens the support of policy reform in
some of the above areas and opens new areas for reform by supporting: (a) a
deepening and broadening of the process of price and trade policy reform for
agricultural products and inputs started under AGSAL I; (b) the dismantlement
of SARH's system of crop production targets (not covered under AGSAL I);
(c) the continued rationalization of public agricultural expenditure; (d) the
protection of the real income of poor families by improving the effectiveness
of the targeted subsidies and expanding its coverage; (e) the implementation
of a food, nutrition and health pilot project which will determine and test
the most adequate institutional arrangements and staffing to implement an
expanded program at the national level; and (f) the process and impact
evaluation of the pilot project and of the most important food consumption
programs now in operation. The far-reaching actions taken by the government
in parastatal reform and privatization of agricultural institutions do not
require further support through AGSAL II. Reforms of specific agricultural
institutions are supported by the time slice for irrigation, an agricultural
technology project and a rural iinancial sector operation under preparation.
51.         Parastatals.   An extensive parastatal system controlled
agricultural marketing, storage, processing, food distribution, and production
and distribution of agricultural inputs.  Major agricultural sector
parastatals were the Mexican Sugar Company (AZUCAR), charged until recently
with the production and distribution of sugar; CONASUPO, which controlled
markets for basic grains; INMECAPE, which controlled the coffee market,
TA8AMEX, the tobacco market, CONADECA, the cocoa market, and ANDSA, which is a
storage warehouse business. The government has divested itself of INMECAFE,
CONADECA, TA8AMEX, has privatized ICONSA (Industrias CONASUPO), has begun the
process for privatizing ANDSA, and has sold all government owned sugar mills.
52.         For parastatal divestiture, the following conditions were agreed
upon under AGSAL I: (a) closure or sale of six sugar mills owned by AZUCAR;
(b) liquidation of CONASUPO's wheat-processing affiliate TRICONSA;
(c) closing, or moving to poor neighborhoods, 500 DICCONSA retail food
outlets; and (d) sale or closure of 15 parastatals in the agricultural sector.
Government actions have gone beyond these conditions (further details in
Annex 5).
53.         To reduce waste in public sector expenditures through agricultural
parastatals engaged in marketing and promote private sector storage and
marketing during project preparation, the government took the following
actions:
(a)   17 parastatals from SARH (excluding sugar mills) were liquidated
in 1989 and 1990;
(b)   the distribution monopoly and the acquisition right of purchase of
sugar from mills were taken away from AZUCAR, S.A.;
(c)   the 50 percent tax precluding private sector transactions in sugar
and cocoa was eliminated;
(d)   the 50 government-owned sugar mills were fully divested;
(e)   the parastatals for coffee (INMECAFE), tobacco (TABAMEX), and
cocoa (CONADECA) have withdrawn from marketing those products;



- 16 -
(f)   all plants of Alimentos Balanceados Mexicanos (ALBAMEX) but one
were sold and the liquidation of the company was authorized;
(g)   it was decided to restructure CONASUPO and its affiliates; most
important actions taken are: (i) divestiture of ICONSA;
(ii) initiation of ANDSA's divestiture process; (iii) Bodegas
Rurales CONASUPO (5ORUCONSA's) storage facilities are opened for
commercial use by the social and private sectors; (iv) all 569
urban supermarkets were closed  and (v) improvement of coverage of
marginal areas by DICCONSA's rural stores.
S4.         Input Prices and Reoulations.  To counterbalance discrimination
against agriculture because of low farm prices, the government resorted to
compensatory subsidies on redit and inputs. Almost all agricultural inputs--
including fertilizer, fuel, water, credit and crop insurance--are or were
subsidized. These subsidies have distorted resource use, have had detrimental
effects on agricultural institutions, and have raised the fiscal deficit.
Meanwhile, government intervention in the seeds, feedetuffs, machinery and
pesticides markets, has resulted in high prices relative to international
prices, low-quality products, and burdensome trade barriers that hinder
competition.
55.         The most important subsidies have been provided through low cost
credit, crop insurance, electricity, fertilizer, and water. During 1989,
annual government expenditures to finance these subsidies reached
approximately US$2.5 billion, distributed as follows: (a) US$2000 million for
transfers to the rural financial system; (b) US$350 million for subsidies on
electricity tariffs for irrigation; (c) US$100 million for fertilizer
subsidies: and (d) US$50 million to cover the operating and maintenance
expenses of irrigation districts. The government has started major reform of
rural financial institutions, which already has reduced these financial sector
subsidies and which will be supported by the planned rural financial sector
project. Issues of water pricing are being addressed within the planned
irrigation time-slice project. Remaining fertilizer pricing issues are dealt
with under the existing fertilizer sector adjustment loan. Compliance with
the conditions of this loan has been on target, and fertilizer prices are now
80 percent of international prices. Electricity pricing is also being
adjusted under ongoing Bank loans to the power sector. Regulations and
reforms in the seeds sector are being analyzed in the agricultural technology
project under preparation. Two important restrictions on the seedc market
that are proposed to be addressed in AGSAL II ares (a) the monopoly by PRONASE
(Productora Nacional de Semillas) of germplasm produced by INIFAP; and (b) the
limits on private plant breeding. A law is required to eliminate these
restrictions.
56.         AQricultural Machinerv.  Mechanization of agriculture in Mexico
has been constrained by high prices and the generally poor quality of
machinery, thus hindering productivity gains in the sector. High prices on
agricultural machinery reflect a history of import restrictions that protected
domestic tractor producers and encouraged them to build up production capacity
faster than was warranted by agriculture sector development. Since September
1989, domestic producers of agricultural machinery can import new machinery by
paying the corresponding import duty (10 percent on parts for the assembly
industry, on other agricultural machinery, and on Implements, and 15 percent
on tractors). This practice creates a virtual oligopoly for producing firms



- 17 -
and precludes the entry of traders who might be more efficient. To eliminate
such monopolistic practices, reduce costs, and promote competition, the
government has eliminated import permits for new agricultural machinery and
equipment.
57.         Pesticides.  Agrochemical inputs have been characterized by high
prices and uneven quality, resulting in higher production costs, and lower
agricultural productivity. The structure of the industry, combined with
government control, creates barriers to entry and reduces competition as well,
which tends to drive prices up. The government's regulation of the market by
enforcing entry barriers--without imposing in-factory quality controls--
favors dominant firms and results in the production of chemicals of uncertain
quality. Dominant firms are price leaders, and they set prices, on average,
above international levels. Barriers to entry result from registration
procedures, import and export license requirements, price controls, and
protracted government response. Reaistration is required for every agent who
wants to produce, import, or distribute a product. It is an expensive process
that can be handled only in Mexico City, and the registration must be renewed
every two years.  Pesticide import and extort 2ermits from SECOFI, SARH,
SEDUE, and SSA are required because of trade, phytosanitary, environmental,
and health reasons and are handled in an inter-governmental committee
(CICOPLAPEST). To facilitate processing of permit applications, the
government has published a manual that explains the steps that need to be
taken to import pesticides. Moreover, during the Salinas administration
prices of pesticides have not been controlled.
58.         Regulation of the pesticide market needs revision to eliminate
entry barriers and to establish clear long-term policy guidelines for
economic, health and environmental purposes. This would mean dealing with
health and environmental issues on strictly epidemiological and environmental
grounds. To address these issues it is necessary to make a study to assess
procedures and regulations on pesticide use and manufacturing. Similarly,
animal health and plant protection regulations and related bureaucratic
processes contribute to restricting external trade and domestic competition.
Animal and plant services (provided by SARH) warrant adjustment to the
emerging environment of trade and market liberalization. To promote and
facilitate the adjustment to this new environment it is necessary to assess
procedures and regulations on: (a) plant protection; and (b) animal health
systems.
59.         To enhance competition and improve resource allocation in input
markets, since appraisal the government has taken the following actions:
(a)   abolished import licenses for new agricultural machinery;
(b)   allowed tractor prices to be freely determined by the market; and
(c)   initiated the process of submitting to Congress a draft seed law
that will eliminate restrictions that impede private sector
competition with PRONASE, PRONASE's monopoly of germplasm produced
by INIFAP, and limits on plant breeding by the private sector.



- 18 -
b. Pronosed Actions
60.         In terms of price, trade policy, and market regulation, the
objective of AGSAL II is to supports (a) liberalization of producer prices for
agricultural commodities and their industrial derivatives5 (b) further
liberalization of import and export trade in agricultural commodit'es and
their Industrial derivatives; (c) development of private sector storage and
marketing; (d) competition between the private sector and agricultural
parastatals; (e) reduction of input subsidies and elimination of regulations
on feedstuffs, machinery, and pesticides; and (f) regulation of pesticides,
animal health, and plant protection based strictly on quality control, health,
epidemiology, and environmental protection.
61.         When loan preparation started in October 1989, the following
elements characterized the state control of production, marketing, processing,
and international trade of agricultural products in Mexico:
(a)   Guarantee (suoRort)  _roducer prices for 12 food products (grains
and oilseeds), plus coffee, cocoa, sugarcane, and tobacco;
(b)   Consumer nrice controls on around 50 products (those listed in
Attachment 1 of Annex 4) and price controls on agricultural
machinery and equipment, and fertilizers;
(c)   guantitative restrictions (QRs) on most agricultural imports;
(d)   Quantitative restrictions on all exports except high-quality rice
and certain cuts of beef;
(e)   Taxes on exports of livestock, swine for breeding, coffee, and
cotton;
(f)   Taxes on internal transactions of suaar and cocoa which
discouraged the participation of private traders in the marketing
of such products;
(g) A larae oarastatal anparatus that intervened in the marketing,
processing, and international trade of grains, oilseeds, coffee,
cocoa, sugarcane, tobacco, milk, fertilizer, seeds, and other
agricultural inputs; and
(h)   Mandatory oroduction Planning for the main agricultural
commodities.
62.         At the conclusion of the AGSAL It program, most constraints on
production, marketing, processing and trade will have been dismantled, and the
situation for agricultural policy, price, trade, and regulatory institutions
in Mexico will be as follows:
(a)   Guarantee  sauanortV producer prices eliminated for all but two
products: maize and beans;
(b)   Consumer price controls eliminated for about 30 agricultural and
agro-industrial products, and agricultural machinery, and
subetantially relaxed (flexibilized) for another 16 commodities;



- 19 -
(c)   ORe on imports eliminated for all products but maize, wheat,
barley, fruits, processed coffee, tobacco, cigarettes, chicken,
poultry, meat, dairy products, and eggsl
(d)   ORe on exports eliminated for all products except maize, sugar and
beans;
(e)   Nominal tariff protection not to exceed 20 percent (except for
maize, sugar, barley and wheat);
(f'   ExDort taxes abolished;
(g)   Mandatory Droduction Dlanning abolished; and
(h)   A substantially reduced streamlined oarastatal apparatus,
intervening only in the maize and beans markets.
63.         To reach the above stage during the duration of the project, the
government will implement an action plan for price and trade policy reform,
whereby major trade restrictions and price interventions would be removed.
The action plan involves the following componentss (a) elimination of most QRs
for imports and exports; (b) elimination of existing export taxes;
(c) elimination of consumer and producer price controls for a set of products,
and greater administered price flexibility for those products still under
control; (d) a cap of 20 percent on import tariffs, except for maize, sugar,
wheat and barley; (e) publication of a decree that regulates new cane payment
arrangements and the institutional aspects of the sugar sector; (f) the
implementation of an action plan derived from the study on the edible beans
market; (g) a mechanism to allocate milk import quotas in a transparent,
competitive and efficient basis; and (h) a study to define sugar policy, the
results of which will be used to approve and announce a policy for the sugar
sector. The specific actions to be implemented are listed in para. 66 and
summarized in the attachment to Annex 4.
64.         During negotiations, agreement was reached on terms of reference
for:
(a)   a sugar study to define the sugar policy, including the
recommendation of a timetable for achieving a target level of
protection for sugar not to exceed 20 percent (para. 146 (a));
(b)   a study to define the price and trade policy for edible beans
(para 146 (b));
(c)   a study to design a system which will eliminate CONASUPO's
monopoly on imports of powdered milk and will allocate import
permits in a transparent, competitive and efficient basis (para.
146 (c));
(d)   a study on pesticides to diagnose current use, assess present
legal and institutional framework and streamline procedures to:
(i) promote competition between producers and distributors;
(ii) establish guidelines on minimum standards to deal with health
and environmental issues; and (iii) enforce quality control (para
146 (d)); and



- 20 -
(e)   a study on animal health and plant protection tos (i) assess the
regulation, organization and procedures of the system of plant
protection and animal health; and (ii) elaborate a proposal to
modernize the system and streamline its procedures (para. 146
(e)).
65.         To enhance competition and better resource allocation in output
markets, the Bank and the government agreed at negotiations that vrior to
effectiveness the government will issue a decree that modifies present cane
payment arrangements, eliminate export permits for wheat, sorghum, feedstuffs,
barley, soybean, copra, cartamo, cotton seed, tobacco, eggs, coffee, rice,
sesame, sunflower, vegetable oil (oilseed oils), beef and cattle on the hoof,
and eliminate export taxes for raw cotton, cotton fibre, and swine for
breeding (para. 147). It was also agreed that prior to second tranche release,
the following actions will have to be taken (para. 149(a)(i)a.)s
(a)   implement a system which will eliminate CONASUPO's monopoly on
imports of powdered milk, and allocate import permits in a
transparent, competitive and efficient basis;
(b)   eliminate all export permits for fluid milk, and powdered milk;
(c)   allow for prices of tobacco to be freely determined by the market;
(d)   not to have increased the nominal protection for wheat above its
level existing iI May 1, 1991;
(e)   flexibilize prices for cookies, pasta, edible oils, cigarettes,
eggs, beef and dairy products;
(f)   not to have increased the guarantee price of maize to a level over
its equivalent real U.S. dollar value for the Autumn-Winter cycle
of 1990/1991;
(g) not to have increased the domestic price of sugar above its
equivalent real U.S. dollar value in January 1, 1991;
(h)   not to have increased the nominal price of barley for the period
June 1, 1991 to January 31, 1992 above the level of 680,000 pesos
per ton, and have set the nominal price of barley for the period
February 1, 1992 to January 31, 1993 at a level not to exceed
714,000 pesos per ton;
(i) discuss with the Bank the results of the sugar study and based on
such discussions approve a policy for the sugar sector;
Mj)   agree on an action plan that follows from the edible beans market
study; and
(k)   eliminate import permits for green coffee not later than
September 30, 1991.
66.         To enhance competition and improve resource allocation in input
markets, it was agreed during negotiations that prior to second tranche the
government will: (a) eliminate restrictions that impede private sector



- 21 -
competition to PRONASE, PRONASE's monopoly of germplasm produced by INIFAP and
limits on plant breeding by the private sector (para. 149(a)(ii)a.) t (b)
maintain policy of allowing prices of pesticides to be freely determined by
the market (para. 149(a)(ii)b.); and (c) reach agreement on action plans to
implement recommendations of the studies on animal health, plant protection,
and quality control of pesticides. Rules and regulations would be based
strictly on quality control, health, epidemiological, phytosanitary and
environmental protection grounds (para. 149(a)(ii)c.).
67.         GATT and Free Trade Agreement with U.S. and Canada. The actions
supported by AGSAL II will advance very significantly agricultural policy
reform. Nevertheless, excessive protection for maize, sugar, wheat and barley
will not be eliminated fully over the time period of program implementation
for the reasons explained below.
68.         In view of the ongoing GATT negotiations, and the forthcoming
negotiations on the free trade agreement with the U.S. and Canada, the Mexican
Government stated that it was unable to make commitments on protection levels
and policy instruments for maize, wheat and barley. All these are commodities
which are or can be imported from the U.S.A. The Bank agreed that policy
conditions under AGSAL II should not in any way undermine Mexico's position in
negotiating the free trade agreement. At the same time, the Mexican
Government does not view the current high protection level as permanent but
intends to fully define the policy regime for these commodities in the FTA
negotiations. Under AGSAL II the government would commit itself either not to
increase protection levels or to reduce them as explained below.
69.         Masie.  The government has agreed at negotiations to limit
increases in the guarantee price of maize so that its real dollar value would
not increase for the crop cycle Autumn-Winter 90/91, Spring-Summer 91/91,
Autumn-Winter 91/92 and Spring-Summer 92/92 (see paras. 65(f) and 149
(a)(i)a.)
70.         Wheat.  During 1991, international wheat prices dropped 30
percent and protection levels increased relative to the domestic producer
price (precio concertado). The government has agreed at negotiations not to
increase the nominal protection of wheat over its present level, using a five
year moving average of international prices to calculate the coefficient of
nominal protection. (See paras. 65(d) and 149(a)(i)a).
71.         Barley.  The price of "concertaciono  of barley has been set at
680,000 pesos per ton for the Spring-Summer 1990/91 and Autumn-Winter 91/92
production cycles which implies a nominal protection of 60 percent. The
government has agreed at negotiations that it will increase nominal price for
the 92/93 crop cycle by at most 5 percent. Given projected international
prices, domestic inflation and exchange rate movements, this would lead to a
reduction in real peso price and in protection levels. (See paras. 65(h) and
149(a)(i)a.)
72.         Suaar.   The government has implemented far-reaching reforms in
sugar cane pricing and payment arrangements which will greatly enhance the
efficiency of cane and sugar production. A decree will be issued shortly to
formalize these new arrangements. It has also privatized all 50 sugar mills.
The sugar industry requires major investments for rehabilitation and
modernization. The government, sugar cane growers and sugar mill owners



- 22 -
agreed on a domestic price policy which would make rehabilitation and
investment profitable. This policy fixes a conotant real dollar price for
sugar for the 1991 and 1992 crop years. The price is maintained constant
through a variable levy on sugar imports. At today's international prices,
the level of protection io about 80 percent. Changes to this recently agreed
policy might jeopardize other agreements reached to modify the heavily
regulated environment of the sector. The Government committed itself not to
further increase the domestic price of sugar above its equivalent real doliar
value on January 1, 1991. (See paras. 65(g) and 149(a)(i)a.).
73.         The Mexican government considers that the level of protection and
the timetable to phase out such protection should be the result of a detailed
analysis of the situation of the sugar sector. Therefore it could not at this
time commit to a particular level or to a timetable to reach it. It was agreed
that, in the policy letter, the government will state its intention of moving
to a maximum level of protection of 20 percent within a reasonable time span,
a level which is consistent with the country's general tariff policy. The
government will carry out a study to define sugar policy under terms of
reference agreed with the Bank at negotiations. Based on presently available
information the Bank would consider a reasonable time period to reach the
stated policy objective not to exceed five years. Prior to second tranche
release, the results of the study will be discussed with the Bank and, based
on that discussion, a policy for the sugar sector will be approved and
announced (paras. 65(i) and 149(a)(i)a.).
2.    SARH's Production Taraets
74.         SARH's production targets have been for many years a cornerstone
of Mexican agricultural policy. SARH expected that its specific production
goals be achieved, including greater food self-sufficiency in basic grains
such as maize, wheat, rice, and beans. Production targets determined at the
national level are used by government agencies to "guide" resource allocation
at the farm level.
75.         National targets become the basis for the targets for each
agricultural development district and for each centro de anoyo, which
interacts directly with the farmers. Support measures such as subsidized
credit, fertilizers, and farm machinery encourage farmers to produce the
selected commodities. Allocation and delivery of water for those crops is
agreed upon between producers and government authorities. Extension efforts
at SARH, Banco Nacional de Cr6dito Rural (BANRURAL), and Fideicomisos
Instituidos en Relaci6n con la Agricultura (FIRA) concentrate heavily on the
target crops--not necessarily the most profitable ones for the country. The
waste inherent in this system was not as clearly a constraint on production as
long as irrigated land and other resources were expanding rapidly. Yet as
resource growth declined, the constraints imposed by the system became more
apparent. This system of centralized planning with large subsidies for
agriculture has not achieved its objectives. The end result is that the
country is dependent on imports for its food supply.
76.         This centralized system also would hinder transmission of the
effects of the price and trade policy reforms to be implemented under AGSAL
II, which are intended to increase productivity and improve resource



- 23 -
allocation at the farm level. To allow the full transmission of price and
trade policy reforms to the agriculture sector, as condition of effectiveness
the Government will present a study which identifies processes, legislation
and regulations that give SARH and other government entities the power to
establish, coordinate and enforce crop production targets. Based on such
study, the government will present to the Bank, not later than September 30,
1991, a satisfactory plan of action to eliminate and dismantle processes and
regulations that enforce the system of crop production targets. (para. 147).
This action plan will be implemented before second tranche (para. 149(b)(i)).
3.    Government Expenditure
77.         Total government expenditure in the agricultural sector was high,
around 33 percent of agricultural GDP in 1988. This expenditure includes:
(a) subsidies for credit, insurance, fertilizers, electriclty, and irrigatlon
waterS (b) capital transfers to BANRURAL, ANAGSA, and other government
entities and parastatalsg and (c) current and investment expenditure by SARH.
Agriculture's poor performance in the 19800 Indicates that, overall, this
expenditure has been unproductive and that substantial reforms are the only
way to eliminate waste in government spending and increase the efficiency of
future expenditures.
a.    Credit and Input Subsidies
78.         Total input and credit subsidies in 1988 amounted to US$2.1
billion, four times the public investment budget in agriculture. Compreseing
these subsidies has allowed to increase public agricultural investment while
still sharply reducing expenditures. Untar-sted credit subsidies remain a
major problem for agricultural policy and the government budget. The
government, however, already has taken some action to restructure the rural
financial subsector. It announced in February 1990 that ANAGSA would be
liquidatedl since then ANAGSA has ceased to operate. The government has
sharply cut staff and begun important institutional reforms of BANRURAL and is
gradually transferring the cost of FIRA's technical assistance and guarantee
fund to the producers.  These actions are expected to result in lesser
reliance on government funds in the medium term. The Rural Financial Sector
Loan under preparation is addressing these and other related issues.
79.         Fertilizer prices, which at present are 20 percent below
international prices on average, are being increased according to the
timetable agreed to under the Fertilizer sector Adjustment Loan. LoS
electricity tariffs charged to farmers for operating irrigation pumps are also
a major subsidy for agricultural production. The Federal Electricity
Commission (Comisi6n Federal de Electricidad (CFE)) estimated that in 1988
electricity for irrigation and for corn mill. was sold at a ratio of price to
long-run-marginal-cost of 0.26 and 0.21 respectively. However, between the
first semester of 1989 and January 1991, real electricity tariff rates
increased by 72 percent. Still, the ratio of price to long run marginal cost
is below 0.40. A reform of electricity pricing is under way to reduce these
subsidies.



- 24 -
b.    Investnt Expenditure
80.         Public investment in the Mexican agricultural sector deteriorated
sharply, falling in nominal terms from US$2.5 billion per year in 1980-82 to
leos than US$0.7 billion in 1986-1988 (investment in agriculture as a percent
of agricultural GDP fell from 18 percent to 6 percent during the period). As
a result, rural infrastructure deteriorated. To improve rural infrastructure,
under AGSAL I the government agreed to submit to congress an agriculture
budget for 1989 that exceeded the 1988 budget (US$S503 million) by the
equivalent of US$200 million in real terms. This condition was not fulfilled
in 1989. Measured against actual expenditure, the increase in the investment
budget between 1989 and 1988 was approximately US$80 million. However, the
agriculture investment budget approved by Congress for 1990 was US$864
million, which represents a US$361 million increase over investment
expenditures in 1988, thus exceeding substantially the objective of AGSAL I
one year later. Although this recovery is important, major recovery of
investment expenditure is still necessary to accelerate agricultural growth.
81.         Investment expenditures in two areas need to be reviewed, for
infrastructure and research and extension. Investment in rural roads, dams,
and canal irrigation programs and the draining of floodplains and other major
waterlogged areas have been a major source of agricultural growth in Mexico,
and their expansion remains critical for future growth. The Mexican
government has begun to redress the imbalance in agricultural investment by
boosting investment expenditure to US$864 million in 1990 and US$1,112 million
in 1991.
82.         Technology development and extension also have suffered under
fiscal retrenchment, particularly in the generation and distribution of
agricultural technology. Principal issues are the inadequacy of financing
public agricultural research, the means for transferring technology to
agricultural producers, the definition of research priorities, and the legal
and institutional aspects of seed production. In addition, definitions are
also tequired for the appropriate division of labor between private and public
research and for seed production. The proposed Agricultural Technology loan
is expected to address these issues. An increase in public spending for
research and development is needed to increase productivity and reach farmers
effectively.
83.         The government has provided satisfactory evidence that the level
and composition of budgeted agricultural expenditures presented to Congress in
the 1991 budget are consistent with the macroeconomic program and with an
efficient allocation of Government resources at the sector level. Agreement
was reached at negotiations that prior to second tranche release, the Mexican
Government will provide satisfactory evidence that the level and composition
of budgeted agricultural expenditure presented to congress in the 1992 budget
is consistent with the macroeconomic program and with an efficient allocation
of government resources at the sector level (para. 149(c)(i)).
C. Food Congumotion and Nutrition
1.    Introduction
84.         Nexican food policy has long been concerned with balancing the
need to keep producer prices high to stimulate domestic production and the



- 25 -
need to keep consumer prices low to protect real consumer income, particularly
for the poor. As a result, food consumption policy has not permitted the
formulation and implementation of an independent agricultural price and trade
policy and has led to large fiscal outlays that have not been cost effective
in fighting poverty and malnutrition. The purpose of the food and nutrition
component of AGSAL II is to makes (a) agricultural policy fully independent of
food consumption policy; and (b) poverty alleviation programs more cost
effective and successful by increasing coverage and improving targeting of the
poorer population.
85.         During the past two decades Mexico has not suffered any food
shortages. Internal production has provided over 80 percent of the total food
supply, the cost of food imports has been less than 10 percent of the value of
total exports of goods and services, and the country has the infrastructure to
store and transport food as needed.
86.         Nevertheless, poverty and malnutrition, particularly among poor
women and children, are widespread. According to nutrition surveys (Encuesta
Nacional de Nutrici6n) in 1988, malnutrition among children under five years
old is extensive, with estimates ranging from 22.3 percent (1.1 million
children) when malnutrition is measured as low height for age (minus 2
standard deviations below average) to 13.9 percent (700,000 children) when it
is measured as low weight for age (minus 2 standard deviations below average.
Moreover, the national nutrition survey indicates that around 29 percent of
non-pregnant women aged 12-49 have low weight for their height. Studies by
Programa Nacional de Solidaridad (PRONASOL) indicate that in 1988
approximately 41 million people lived under poverty corditions, around 65
percent of them in rural areas. It is clear that low income, seasonal
variations of food supplies, short-term unemployment, intra-family differences
in food consumption, and nutrient losses due to parasites and other diseases
are among the primary contributors to this situation.
87.         While economic adjustment is the basis for more equitable growth,
a coherent food consumption and nutrition strategy is needed now. Since the
initiation of the Pacto, food price policy has been subordinated to the
objectives of maintaining constant real wages and reducing the rate of
inflation. This has led to rising costs in programs which drove a wedge
between producer and consumer prices, reaching about 0.74 percent of GDP in
1989. Taraeted food 2roorams are directed mainly to urban groups and
concentrated in the Federal District. It is estimated that the cost of these
programs in 1989 was 0.13 percent of GDP. Nevertheless, 1990 saw a
significant reduction of generalized subsidies and an increase of targeted
subsidies. As a result, general subsidies declined to 0.49 percent of GDP in
1990 while targeted subsidies increased to 0.27 percent of GDP. Food
assistance provided through the health system remains minimal.
88.          Past consumer price policies undermined the considerable efforts
to rationalize agricultural producer price and trade policies. Moreover, the
current system, which does not rely anymore on general consumer subsidies to
protect the real income of low-income urban groups, does not effectively
address food consumption and nutritional objectives. This is because:



- 26 -
(a)   the rural poor receive only minimal benefits from the programs
despite the high concentration of poverty and malnutrition in
rural areas;
(b)   targeted food consumption programs do not take advantage of the
proven complementarity among primary health services, nutrition,
and nutrition education;
(c)   the programs are fragmented and use different targeting criteria
and mechanisms; and
(d) the current programs continue to force the government to handle
large amounts of food and to maintain producer price and trade
interventions.
2. A New Food Consumptign and Nutrition Stratea
89.         Because Mexico's food and nutrition programs have been costly,
fail to protect much of the population from malnutrition, and have a negative
impact on agricultural producer incentives, a new strategy should:
(a)   sharply reduce under-nutrition and malnutrition in Mexico,
especially in rural areas, at an acceptable fiscal coat; and
(b)   liberate agriculture policy and trade policy from their
subordination to consumer price policy.
90.         To prevent and correct malnutrition cost-effectively, it is
necessary tos (a) reform the food and nutrition programs further; and
(b) expand coverage of the target population substantially, especially in
rural areas. This must be preceded by policy definitions and actions that
support long-term policy objectives.
a.    Elements Already in Place
91.         Current programs contain many elements worth preserving.  During
the 1980. Mexico introduced and expanded urban food subsidy programs (e.g.
LICONSA milk coupons and Tortibonos see Annex 6). These have helped
households, food security by supporting their purchasing power. The reformed
Tortiboa2s program (Tortivales) which selects its beneficiary families from a
recently completed list of all urban families with income below two minimum
wages, entitles beneficiary families to receive tortilla coupons that can be
exchanged for up to one kilogram of tortillas per day. The LICONSA milk
program allows beneficiaries to purchase milk at subsidized prices (below
production cost). Despite the lack of direct evidence and verification, it is
reasonable to assume that these programs have prevented a major deterioration
in the nutrition status of the urban population since the debt crisis.
However, these programs cannot reach the rural poor who do not buy tortillas,
and it is costly and cumbersome to distribute liquid milk in rural areas.
92.         Since mid-1987 the maternal and child health care program has been
delivering food baskets in 28 states to families with undernourished children
under age five and to pregnant and nursing women. The program reaches only
140,000 families, however, while the total population eligible for coverage is
estimated at 1.4 million. Integral Family Development (Desarrollo Integral de



- 27 -
la Familia--DIF) implements other food and nutrition programs for selected
families.
93.         The main programs for protecting the purchasing power of the rural
poor are: (a) the DICCONSA rural community stores; and (b) the maize flour
program. The DICCONSA stores can deliver food to the most remote parts of
Mexico and can serve a market-regulating function in areas with deficient
retail systems. However, the DICCONSA stores effect a much smaller transfer
of income to the rural population than do similar programs to the urban poor
and cannot be used to enhance the purchasing power of the poorest rural groups
substantially. The maize flour subsidy is a semi-targeted program that
reaches only those rural poor who buy maize rather than grow it themselves.
"Semi-targeting" is achieved through the choice of maize--the predominant food
staple of the poor--as the commodity to be subsidized and by locating stores
in poorer rural areas.
94.         Following the findings and recommendations of a study of food and
nutrition programs, on-going programs are being modified to improve their
efficiency and targeting. Analytical work carried out by Comisi6n Nacional de
Alimentaci6n (CONAL) has led to further classification of target populations
and of each program's potential effectiveness. General food subsidies have
been replaced by targeted ones. The Secretaria de Comercio and Fomento
Industrial (SECOFI) and the Compafita Nacional de Subsistencias Populares
(CONASUPO) are reforming their semi-targeted programs to improve their cost-
effectiveness and income transfer effect. In addition, the Health Services
Program for the Open (Uninsured) Population (Programa de Atencifn de Servicios
de Salud para la Poblaci6n Abierta--PASSPA) model of primary health care will
focus on improving and extending delivery of basic health care and nutrition
assistance for 13 million uninsured people in Oaxaca, Chiapas, Hidalgo,
Guerrero, and the Federal District. Special emphasis will be on families with
undernourished pregnant and nursing women and children under five. The
recently approved Primary Health Project supports the PASSPA program.
95.         Finally, to improve the efficiency of various food and nutrition
programs and to monitor their effects, Secretariat of Programming ard
Budgeting (Secretaria de Programaci6n y Presupuesto--SPP), CONAL and the
National Institute of Statistics, Geography and Information (INEGI) are
developing proposals to enhance their ability to analyze and evaluate
nutritional data.
b.    Kev Elements of the Long-Term Strateav
96.         Although the current programs contain many positive elements, they
are far from reaching their basic nutritional objectives. CONAL's report
properly concludes that the prevalence of malnutrition--especially among women
and pre-school children--demands direct actionY Experience shows that to
2/    CONAL - Documento Iintesiss Evaluaci6n de Proaramas para keiorar la
Situaci6n Alimentaria v Nutricional de la Poblaci6n do Baios Inoreso-.
Seounda Etapa (Evaluation of Programs to Improve the Food and
Nutritional Situation of Low Income People.) (M6xico, D.F., Junio de
1989.)



- 28 -
achieve food security and basic nutritional objectives in a cost-effective
way, a strategy must require: (a) provision of food supplements to those at
risk of malnutrition; (b) health interventions to prevent or treat parasitic
and other diseases that generate waste of nutrients; (c) educating the
population about better use of their available food; (d) providing the
vulnerable population (pregnant women, lactating mothers and children under
five) with sufficient purchasing power to obtain food; (e) using the haalth
system to identify beneficiaries; (f) using the private sector to deliver
food; and (g) eliminating untargeted subsidies and consumer price controls.
97.         The most effective way to identify vulnerable groups is through
schools and the health system, especially through nutrition-monitoring
programs for pregnant and lactating women and for small children. Such
monitoring programs are in place in the IMSS/PRONASOL and DIF (Integral
Development of the Family) programs. Once identified, beneficiaries could use
coupons at private and/or DICCONSA stores for food purchases. Combining food
coupons with the provision of health services would greatly: (a) enhance
targeting and, therefore, the effectiveness of the food programs; and
(b) provide an impetus to improve the health service and thereby exploit the
link between health and nutrition.
98.         Based on these considerations, to achieve food security and
adequate nutritional status for the poor and vulnerable groups of the
population, the government has defined the following elements for its food
consumption and nutrition strategy:
(a)   targeted food, nutrition and health programs, which are an
important means to alleviate poverty and malnutrition in urban and
rural areas;
(b)   program beneficiaries to be the poor (families with income below
two minimum wages) and vulnerable groups. They will be the
priority groups for an expanded nutrition and health program, with
special emphasis on rural areas;
(c)   execution and expansion of food and nutrition programs based on an
equitable distribution of benefits between urban and rural areas,
acceptable fiscal cost, and allocation of resources among programs
based on the results of a new monitoring and evaluation program;
(d)   the health system to play a central role, including the
identification of beneficiaries (who will automatically become
eligible for other food and nutrition programs);
(e)   means testing to be confined to urban areas;
(f)   CONASUPO and DICCONSA to handle food delivery to beneficiaries for
the time being;
(g)   a pilot project, to evaluate procedures, operational viability,
and cost-effectiveness of the nutrition and health program (see
Section d); and



- 29 -
(h)   a monitoring and evaluation program for the pilot project and
existing programs; results will be used to adjust the food and
nutrition programs.
99.         The Government of Mexico has prepared central guidelines for a
medium-term food and nutrition program that incorporates the above elements of
the strategy and has designated SPP as the agency in charge of coordinatings
(a) budget allocation to the executing agencies; and (b) monitoring,
evaluation, and research of the program. These guidelines have been
incorporated into the food consumption component of the policy letter (see
Annex 3).
c. Cgonstraints and Transition
100.        Three main factors constrain this  strategy: (a) inadequate
capacity of the basic health system to provide services in the urban and rural
sectors alike; (b) inadequate budget for the existing primary health system,
and expanding it to poverty areas; and (c) absence of government budget
allocation for providing food through the nutrition and health program. All
the other elements necessary to establish an effective food and nutrition
program are there, especially the food distribution system of CONASUPO,
DICOONSA, and private stores.
101.        Since the health system is not able to cover a larger segment of
the vulnerable population in the short- and medium-term, there is a rationale
for maintaining the current targeted and semi-targeted food subsidy programs.
The Tortivalos program is closer to a direct income transfer, and the LICONSA
program, by focusing on mothers and children, is closer to a nutrition
intervention-cum-income transfer. In the long run the Tortivales program can
be: (a) maintained as an income transfer program for the urban poor by further
improving its targeting and operation; or (b) merged with the nutrition and
health program. Furthermore, because the LICONSA social milk supply program
shares many elements with the proposed health and nutrition program, the
infrastructure of the LICONSA program can be used to support the nutrition and
health programs and be merged quickly with it.
102.        The DICCONSA store system primarily regulates the market and
provides only minimal targeted income transfer and nutrition benefits to the
poorest of the rural poor. It also has the maize flour program, which
consists of sales of maize flower below cost. As the coverage of the food and
nutrition program increases, this subsidy will become redundant. In the short
term, however, the maize flour program should be maintained in rural areas, as
it is the only program capable of conferring substantial benefits to the rural
poor at this time.
d.    kilot Nutrition and Health Proiect
103.        The pilot project follows the basic design of the nutrition and
health programs now under implementation by Secretaria de Salud. The pilot
project will: (a) provide food assistance to around 45,000 rural families in
the states of Nuevo Le6n, Tamaulipas, San Luis Potosi, and Mexico; and
(b) test different methods for operating a nutrition and health program.
Evaluation of the pilot project will provide adequate information on which to
base an expanded national nutrition and health program. The localities which



- 30 -
will be beneficiaries of the program were selected for two reasons. First,
their extreme poverty, adverse climatic conditions, poor natural resource
endowment, poor health infrastucture at the household level -absence of
potable water and excretal disposal-, and high degree of malnutrition among
children under 5 years made them a natural selection for this program. Second,
because the selected towns are located in non-PASSPA states they do not have
access to the benefits of PASSPA. Thus, for equity reasons, the pilot project
will extend the benefits of poverty alleviation programs to those localities
not covered by existing programs.
104.        The main purpose of the pilot project is to guide the
institutional arrangements and define the most adequate design for an expanded
nutrition and health program. Its taraet -ooulation will be the low-income
families at risk of malnutrition and for that include pregnant and lactating
mothers or children under age five (estimated at 3.6 million families). The
pilot program will cover 45,000 families and will:
(a)   be based on nutrition and health interventions to reduce maternal
and child mortality, prevent and treat malnutrition, and promote a
better growth and development of the target population;
(b)   determine and test the most adequate institutional arrangements
and staffing to implement the nutrition and health program;
(c)   determine and test the most adequate packages of benefits and the
criteria for selecting beneficiaries, with cost effectiveness of
the proposed food supplementation basket(s) carefully evaluated,
in particular;
(d)   determine and test the most adequate systems and procedures for
(i) selecting and identifying beneficiaries; (ii) providing
entitlements to food baskets; (iii) redeeming entitlements; and
(iv) transporting and storing food baskets;
(e)   determine and test the design of the proposed information,
supervision, accounting, and auditing systems and how to identify
and assess the performance of the responsible units;
(f)   design and implement an action research program that will evaluate
the effectiveness of the various nutrition and income-support
interventions;
(g)   analyze the technical, administrative, and financial feasibility
of the project activities, their estimated cost and timetables;
and
(h)   prepare a detailed estimate of the cost of an expanded program for
participating institutions, including unit costs, and costing
criteria.
e.    Maize Consumotion Policy
105.        Until recently, the government-owned ONASUPO subsidized maize and
maize flour to urban tortilla manufacturers much that their prices were below
both the international and the domestic price equivalents, therefore granting



- 31 -
urban consumers untargeted maize subsidies. Rural consumers, about half of
whom are net buyers of maize, were not receiving such subsidies, but paid
essentially the producer price. During the past three years, producers were
increasingly protected, leading to rising budgetary costs of maintaining low
urban tortilla prices, and to rural consumers paying prices higher than the
international equivalent. Ever since AGSAL I approval in 1988, it has been the
objective of Mexican policy to reduce the untargeted subsidies to urban
consumers, and to replace them with targeted distribution of maize to poor
consumers. In the urban areas this has led to the Tortivales program which
provides one kg of tortillas each per day free of charge to 2.1 million poor
families. In the rural areas the government subsidizes maize flower and maize
through its rural DICCONSA stores, which target the poorest areas.
106.        The government recently proceeded to deregulate the maize-tortilla
chain, simplify the complex structure of prices and subsidies stretching from
the production of maize to the consumption of tortilla, and to reduce the
budgetary cost of its maize policy. It therefore raised consumer prices of
maize and tortillas to nearly the costs of CONASUPO of acquiring, handling and
processing maize, thus raising consumer prices above their international
equivalent. Only in Mexico City is the price of tortillas slightly below the
international equivalent. The new price policy therefore amounts to a
regressive consumer tax which falls mainly onto rural consumers and urban
consumers outside of Mexico City, and which benefits producers.
107.        Without maintaining the large and inefficient CONASUPO purchase
and sales apparatus for maize, the consumer tax can only be eliminated by
reforming producer price policy, a task which now has to be addressed in the
context of the PTA negotiations. Pending the outcome of the PTA negotiations,
to minimize the impact of the consumer tax on poor urban consumers, it was
agreed at negotiations that the government will compensate poor families
(those with income below two minimum wages) from the real income losses
resulting from the consumer price effects of protection granted to
agricultural producers in whatever food commodities the protection is applied.
The instrument for this compensation will be the tortivale program or a
suitably redesigned targeted food subsidy program.
108.        For the rural areas the ultimate objective is to expand the pilot
health and nutrition project to the national level. In the meantime it makes
little sense to greatly increase or further target the existing maize and
maize flower subsidy program through the DICCONSA stores, but rather just
maintain it in its present form as a temporary and imperfect palliative
measure. Therefore, in rural areas, DICCONSA will use its maize and maize
flour programs in order to alleviate the impact on rural consumers of producer
protection. However, as the nutrition and health program is expanded, the
maize and maize flour programs can be phased out in those areas covered by the
nutrition and health programs.
109.        During neaotiations, the Bank and the Mexican government reached
agreement on:
(a)   central guidelines for a medium-term food and nutrition program
(para. 146(f));
(b)   terms of reference for the design of a system to evaluate and
monitor food and nutrition programs (para. 146(g));



- 32 -
(c)   a plan to implement the said monitoring and evaluation system
(para. 146(h))t and
(d)   a process for using the results of the implemented ongoing
monitoring and evaluation system (MES) to adjust the guidelines
and programs according to the lessons learned from experience
(para. 146(i)).
110.        The government ham begun implementation of the food, nutrition and
health pilot project. Evaluation of the experience derived from the pilot
project and agreement on actions to extend a suitably revised program to a
large segment of the vulnerable population are necessary to extend the
benefits of these programs. During negotiations it was agreed that prior to
second tranche release, the government will:
(a)   present to the Bank an evaluation of food and nutrition programs
as agreed to in the implementation plan of the NES (para.
149(d)(i)); and
(b)   agree with the Bank on general and agencies' action plans for
1993-1994 (para. 149(d)(ii)).
PART II! - OVRNMNT AND MANU &TR_UEOIE8
A. aovernment Strateaw
111.        After a protracted period of falling per capita income, Mexico has
resumed economic growth. Successful debt restructuring arrangements were
finalized with the assistance of the Bank in 1990. Having achieved these
goals, the government's overriding objective in the remainder of its six-year
term (which ends in 1994) is to sustain economic growth and deepen the
country's modernization process. To achieve these objectives, the ongoing
stabilization process has to be consolidated successfully, external capital
has to be attracted to spur investments, and structural reforms must be kept
on track.  Furthermore, the government is fully aware of the long term
structural problems that could, if left neglected, derail any medium-term
success. It has therefore declared agricultural reform, structural poverty
alleviation and the environment as top priorities. Government at the same
time is implementing its plans for decentralization to increase the fiscal
authority and re   isibilities of the states and municipalities.
112.        The government strategy is based on the recovery  of crowth throuah
private sector investments, which would be complemented by supporting public
investment. To create a climate conducive to private sector activity, the
government intends to continue its structural reform program, which would help
rationalize the incentive structure and further reduce government intervention
in the economy. The government is proceeding with the privatisation of the
telephone company and has announced the privatization of the commercial banks.
The opening of negotiations with the USA and Canada for a free trade agrement
is expected to take place later in the year. Privatization of the commercial
banks is likely to improve the efficiency of the financial system, help public
finances, and has already induced an increased return of flight capital.
Major new initiatives have also been launched to eliminate the remaining anti-
agricultural bias in the incentive and trade regime.



- 33 -
113.        Public sector investments complementing private sector activity
would be allocated for infrastructur to increase efficiency and service
levels (ln irrigation, power, and transport); for noverty alleviation to
emphasize basic social sector programs (including health, nutrition, and
education) and safety net arrangements for the truly needy; and for the
envirognmnt (air pollution, deforestation) to improve the health and living
conditions of the country's people and economic growth.
114.        The sharp increases in the price of oil since the September oil
shock have altered Mexico's balance of payments outlook, but there is
substantial uncertainty regarding balance of payments prospects. The
government has been extremely cautious in calculating the potential windfall
benefits, and has for the time being decided to utilize any increased oil
generated foreign exchange earnings to increase reserves and decrease debt.
S. Bank Assistance Strateav
115.        The Bank has greatly expanded its assistance program to Mexico
over the last five years. In FY85 commitments for the year amounted to US$598
million, and gross disbursements were US$788 million. Since then, Bank annual
commitments to Mexico have more than doubled, in support of the government's
adjustment program and structural reforms, including support for debt
reduction. In FY90, gross disbursements reached an all time peak of US$3.6
billion in FY90, and net transfers, a peak of US$2.5 billion.
116.        The government's successful adoption of a comprehensive and
balanced economic program and the conclusion of Mexico's Bank supported debt
restructuring exercise In early 1990, had begun to shift Bank lending
strategy, even before the oil price change, from an emphasis on quickly
disbursing adjustment operations to investment loans directed at
infrastructure institution building, the improvement of services in the social
sectors and the targeting of assistance to the poor.
117.        Ae noted in Part I, if a US$23 per barrel average price of oil is
sustained in 1991, then there would be a "windfall gain' between US$2.5 and of
US$3.3 billion for the year over what had been projected based on a pre-criesi
average price of US$17.1 per barrel. However, the projections for the price
of oil are highly uncertain and Mexico's foreign exchange earnings are very
sensitive to changes in economic conditions in the United States. Some
additional quickly disbursing adjustment lending for FY91 is necessary to
provide Mexico with a predictable source of balance of payments support. This
would be done through this US$400 million AGSAL II and the US$25 million
adjustment component of the recently approved Export Sector Loan (see
para. 123)--as well as through IDB cofinancing of US$450 million for the two
loans.
118.        Provided there is no major change in Mexico's current balance of
payments prospects, the Bank strategy is to continue the shift from adjustment
to investment lending. The main thrust of the Bank's assistance strategy
would then be to finance investment for physical and social infrastructure
that would support private sector led growth. This would be complemented by
specific operations to assist the poor and protect the environment. The
strategy of shifting emphasis from adjustment to investment project lending
requires strengthening the project pipeline. The Bank and the government are
working together to do this.



- 34 -
119.        As a result of the Bank's increased level of lending in Mexico
over the last several years, its exposure in Mexico rose to US$11.03 billion
as of the end of FY90, which amounted to 11.33 percent of the Bank's total
exposure. Mexico remains in need of substantial amounts of lending to support
the needs of its public sector investment program; however, the phasing down
of adjustment loans will contribute to a gradual decline in Bank exposure,
even with a continuation of substantial amounts of investment lending. The
Bank strategy also contemplates continuing with an extensive and well-focussed
economic and sector work program which could provide a basis for proceeding
with adjustment lending if conditions warranted it.
120.        Bank lending will emphasize infrastructure and human resource
development in support of the government's efforts to revitalize private
sector led growth. Infrastructure investment in the 1980s was reduced as part
of the stabilization programs. As a result of this and the increased demand
for infrastructure associated with the resumption of economic growth, expanded
infrastructure investment is required. To meet these needs, a major emphasis
in the Bank's lending program will be to support infrastructure investment and
government policies to (a) reduce excessive regulation and interference;
(b) decentralize administration and financing of infrastructure to the local
level; and (c) utilize private sector management skills and capital to expand
infrastructure services. Human resource development has also not kept pace
with growth. During the sharp economic downturn of the 1980s, the human
resources sector, which includes education, health, and nutrition, has
suffered more than other sectors, and is now hampering the recovery. The
Bank's program of financial and technical assistance is designed to support
the government's increased efforts to strengthen Mexico's human capital base.
In particular, the Bank program envisages assistance to basic education and
health care as well as in the area of vocational education and manpower
training.
C. 8ectoral Comnosition of Bank Lendine
121.        As of December 31, 1990, Mexico had received 126 loans from the
Bank, amounting to US$16.73 billion, net of cancellationg and terminations; of
these, 85 loans, totalling US$13.45 billion, were fully disbursed and US$3.28
billion remained undisbursed. The Bank's exposure was US$11.03 billion on a
cash basis. The sectoral composition and policy content of past lending, as
well as the design of major new lending operations are discussed below for key
areas of the Mexican economy in which the Bank has been active over the years.
Agriculture
122.        Because of the crucial importance of agriculture for the one-third
of the country's population living in rural areas, some 23 percent of the
Bank's past lending has supported agricultural development, and nine
operations are currently under supervision. The Bank's lending program in
agriculture is aimed at: (a) helping correct the incentive regime in
agriculture through gradual reductions in input subsidies and export controls;
(b) promoting more efficient and rationale use of natural resources supported
by improved technologies and services; (c) generating employment-intensive
investments in rural areas and effective assistance to small farmers; and
(d) creating an integral framework for sound rural development. To support



- 35 -
these goals: in FY88 the Bank made a US$300 million AGSALI in FY90 made two
loans (one for investments for agricultural marketing and storage facilities
and the other for forestry development); and in FY91 made one for
decentralization and regional development. Additional operations are planned
to support rehabilitation of the irrigation infrastructure, including improved
cost recovery and maintenance operations, for food security and poverty
alleviation, and for agricultural technology.
rade
123.        About 10 percent of past Bank lending has been for trade, and two
loans remain under supervision. Two trade policy loans (TPL I and TPL It) of
US$500 million each were made in FY87 and FY88 in support of the government's
sweeping trade reforms. The two operations supported the speedy reduction of
non-tariff barriers (quotas and official reference prices) and rationalization
of the tariff system (reduced levels and dispersion). The Bank supported the
development of non-oil exports through two export development operations in
FY83 and FY87. These export development loans were intended to strengthen the
supply response by Mexican industry to the new trade policy signals. A US$500
million Industrial Sector Policy Loan (ISPL) in FY89 has supported additional
trade measures designed to liberalize imports and rationalize the incentive
regime in key subsectors. The recently approved US$300 million Export Sector
Loan (ESL) will support trade and custom reforms and the transition of
Bancomext to a more efficient role in trade financing in a more competitive
financial system.
Industry and Finance
124.        Some 21 percent of the Bank's lending has supported industry, and
currently eleven projects are under supervision. The Bank's lending strategy
for industry, covering small- and medium-scale industry, mining, industrial
restructuring and technology development, is designed to support: (a) trade
policy reform; (b) strengthening a competitive financial sector, including the
provision of resources for restructuring financial intermediaries; and
(c) industrial restructuring, regulatory reform, clarification of foreign
investment rules, and export promotion to assure a vigorous supply response to
trade liberalization and increased international competitiveness. The FY89
US$500 million ISPL and the FY89 US$500 million Parastatal Enterprise Reform
Loans provide support for policy reform in industry, and for the more
efficient management and privatization of public enterprises. The PY88
Fertilizer and Steel Sector Loans and the FY89 Industrial Restructuring Loan
provided support for restructuring of the fertilizer, steel, automotive parts,
textile, and flower sectors, and other key private industrial subsectors in
need of restructuring. Another adjustment operation in FY89, the USS500
million Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL), has been providing support
for the liberalization of the financial sector, elimination of forced lending
to the government at subsidized rates, increasing competition among banks and
brokerage houses and improving regulations in the banking sector.
Infrastructure
125.        Lending for transportation, power and water accounts for 20
percent of the Bank's total in Mexico, with 8 projects currently under
supervision. Lending for infrastructure is focussing on regional development,
decentralization, more efficient public investment allocation, and improved



- 36 -
cost recovery. Recent Bank loans supported the highway, railways and port
sub-sectors. Emphasis was placed on obtaining more realistic user feel and
deferring all but the highest-yielding investment projects so as to permit a
minimum of budgetary outlays for maintenance expenditures and protect the
existing capital stock. Proposed loans would support the government's
decentralization initiatives, cost-based pricing, and managerial improvements.
Loans are being considered to finance highway maintenance and construction,
railway rehabilitation, port development, electric power energy development
and water supply and sewerage system investment.
Nousin@ and Others
126.        The Bank has lent some 13 percent of its total for tourism, urban
development, housing and vocational training. Currently three housing loans
are under supervision. Government housing programs are designed to improve
cost recovery. A Second Housing Finance Loan under execution is supporting
graduated loan cost recovery linked to the income of final borrowers, thus
ensuring a reduced drain on the budget. Further financing in the housing
sector is contemplated which would benefit low-income groups and achieve
further housing finance sector reform.
D.  Poverty, the Social Sectors and the Environment
127.        While rapid, private sector-led growth is the most effective means
of securing sustained increases in the incomes of the poor, not all will
benefit from this process, or at least not quickly enough. This points to the
need for special programs to assist the disadvantaged. The Bank's strategy is
to support efforts to design more cost-effective programs for the provision of
basic social services to the needy in the four poorest states of Mexico.
Provision of low-cost housing and efforts to expand social safety nets to
those outside the formal insurance programs are also in process. The Bank is
assisting the government in redesigning public health, education, and human
resource programs to make them more cost effective and targeted to meet the
needs of the poor. A recently approved health project, the Bank's first in
the sector in Mexico, would support decentralization measures, finance new
primary health facilities, and strengthen professional services. similar
initiatives are being pursued in education and nutrition. A basic education
project is planned for next year and other operations are planned in the near
future for vocational education and manpower training. A pilot project has
been approved for improving the well-being of women in low-income areas. It
includes the provision of piped water, health and educational services,
training for productive activities, and credit for launching new
microenterprises.
128.        Bank strategy gives high priority to programs to safeguard the
environment. The Bank is preparing an air pollution operation in the Federal
District, which would tackle pollution caused by urban transport, and the
Board has approved an amendment of an ongoing urban transport operation to
support immediate relief measures requiring investments. A loan to support
the Government's onvironmental ministry is under preparation. The loan would
provide institutional assistance to the ministry, finance sectoral policy
studies, prepare proposals for investment projects and help support mnnitoring
and pollution control activities. To increase external resources, the Bank is
promoting cofinancing of environmental investments, particularly with Japan.



- 37 -
S.    Collaboration with IFC
129.        The IFC has worked with the Bank tot (a) identify private sector
investment opportunities likely to thrive in the current climate of greater
integration with the world economy; and (b) assist in strengthening the
country's capital markets. In FY89 and FY90, IFC provided three lines of
credit, totalling US$140 million, to commercial banks for industrial financing
emphasizing export-oriented projects. As of March 31, 1991, the IFC had gros
total commitments of US$1458.6 million in Mexico of which US$970.80 million
had been sold, repaid or canceled.
PALM IV - TU PROPOSD 
A.    Rationale for AGSAL IL
130.         Current Bank strategy recognizes both the short-run uncertainty
over oil prices and the need to safeguard the Mexican economy from declines in
the terms of trade. The macroeconomic justification for continued balance of
payment support, albeit at substantially smaller levels than previously
planned, also reflects the short-run volatility in the oil market and the
long-run concern of insulating the economy from external shocks. With the
macroeconomic situation calling for a reduced level of adjustment lending,
current priorities in the Mexican adjustment program provide a clear rationale
for focusing this reduced flow on the agricultural sector.
131.        Continuation of agricultural policy reforms (price and trade
policy) is key to further improving the incentives for the efficient and
increased growth of the Mexican agricultural sector. Elimination of trade
barriers is vital to permit the efficient transmission of signals that will
guarantee that the full impact of reforms is felt. Reforms in food
consumption policy are fundamental to: (a) improving the efficiency of
government expenditure on anti-poverty programs; (b) increasing the living and
nutritional standards of the poor; and (c) permitting a smooth shift away from
a system of price and trade intervention. As government intervention declines
and producers and consumers realize more freedom of choice, the need for a
large parastatal sector disappears, and the closure of parastatals or their
sale to the private sector will be a natural outcome of the reform process.
132.        The government already has exceeded AGSAL I conditions in the
price reform, trade reform, and reduction of agricultural parastatals. The
strength of the ongoing programs and the impressive record of past actions in
these areas provide the rationale for continued Bank support of the
government's program of agricultural sector adjustment.
133.        Other elements of the Bank's strategy for agriculture and rural
development include: (a) the Decentralization and Regional Development Project
that will support rural infrastructure in the four poorest states (FY91);
(b) a planned irrigation sector time-slice loan that will support
rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems, completion of unfinished
projects, and initiation of a few high-payoff additions to the irrigation
system (FY92); (c) a rural financial sector operation that will consolidate
and deepen ongoing reform of the rural financial sector (FY92); and (d) the
preparation of an agricultural technology operation to support the national
research and extension effort (FY93). Agricultural environmental issues will



- 38 -
be dealt with in each of these operations. For example, the agricultural
technology operation is expected to contain a major component in support of
soil conservation, research and extension, the irrigation sector loan will
address salinity issues, and the AGSAL II will initiate reforms of pesticide
policy.
134.        In the area of food consumDtion and nutrition nolicX, AGSAL I
supported the gradual shift from general to targeted food subsidies and
sponsored an evaluation of food and nutrition policies and programs in Mexico.
This evaluation led to selected but isolated reforms of food and nutrition
programs and policies. The Bank has continued the dialogue with the
government during the preparation of AGSAL II, aiming at the definition of a
fully coherent food consumption and nutrition strategy that addresses the
serious nutrition problems in the country, especially in rural areas. In this
sontext, the government will carry out a pilot program to evaluate the
feasibility and mechanisms of a health-based nutrition program that would
combine health services and nutrition education with food entitlement. To
expand at the national level, the health and nutrition program requires
strengthening the basic health system, which the Bank is supporting through
the recently approved Basic Health Care Project.
135.        AGSAL II is a natural follow-up to AGSAL I, TPL I and II, and the
Industrial Sector Policy Loan supporting trade liberalization, elimination of
regulations, and price liberalization. AGSAL II also would have strong ties
to the Fertilizer Sector Adjustment Loan, the ESL, and the Basic Health Care
Project.
B.    Amount and Loan Obiectives
136.        Loan Amount.  The AGSAL II is proposed at US$400 million.  The
first tranche of US$200 million would become available upon loan effectiveness
anticipated for July 1991, and the release of the second tranche of US$200
million is expected for August 1992 on fulfillment of: (a) specific conditions
related to progress in implementing the program (see para. 149); and (b)
general conditions referred to in para. 148. The closing date of AGSAL II
would be February 28, 1993.
137.        Obiectives.  AGSAL II is part of a program of Bank support to the
government's objectives of promoting efficient private sector development and
increasing the effectiveness of public sector institutions so as to enable the
resumption of economic growth. The loan would support: (a) trade and price
policy reforms for expanding agricultural production; (b) food consumption
policy reforms for reducing poverty, providing income protection to the poor,
and improving the nutritional status of the most vulnerable groups of the
population; and (c) the institutional transition of SARH to perform a smaller
but more effective role in agriculture, emphasizing policy formulation and
implementation and basic information and regulatory :unctions.
C.    The Borrower, the Guarantor. and Disbursements
138.        Borrower and Guarantor.  The government has designated Nacional
Financiera S.N.C. (NAFIN) as the borrower, in line with its function as one of
Mexico's official financial agents. NAPIN has also been the borrower under
AGSAL I and its performance has been fully satisfactory. The loan would be
guaranteed by the Mexican government. The Secretariat of Finance and Public



- 39 -
Credit (SHCP) would be the project executing agent through SARH, SPP, SECOFI,
and SSA.
139.        Disbursements.  The proposed US$400 million loan will support
policy changes. Statements of expenditures (SOER) will be used as the basis
for the preparation of the disbursement requests. These disbursements will be
used to finance eligible import expenditures. Contracts in excess of US$5
million will be disbursed against full documentation. All adjustment loans to
Mexico use a negative list because disbursements can only be made against
Central Bank receipts, which cover only a fraction of Mexico's overall
imports. Attempts to use a positive list in the past have been abandoned
because of the small volume of imports against which disbursement could take
place.
D.    Procurement and Financial Manacement and Auditina
140.        Procurement.  Contracts in the public and private sectors valued
at US$5 million or more would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) with simplified advertising and currency provisions following
World Bank guidelines. Procurement has been satisfactorily handled in
previous adjustment loans. Therefore, contracts valued below the ICB
threshold would continue to be awarded, as in past operations, on the basis of
the normal procurement practices of the purchasers, which have been reviewed
and are acceptable to the Bank.
141.        Financial Manasement and Auditing.  The borrower would be
responsible for maintaining loan accounts and for preparing and submitting
withdrawal applications. Withdrawals from the loan account would be on the
basis of statements of expenditures (SORs), and Banco de Mexico would ensure
that all supporting documentation is maintained adequately and made available
for review by the Bank. Disbursements will be made for eligible imports,
i.e., those not specifically excluded (the standard "negative list"). Audits
of the accounts of the project and the supporting documentation for SONs will
be carried out by independent auditors. The audit reports will be submitted
to the Bank as follows: (a) for the first tranche, within a period of 120 days
after the disbursement of the tranche; and (b) for the second tranche, within
120 days of the full disbursement. A timely and acceptable (clean auditors'
opinion) audit report after first tranche release must be received prior to
releasing the second tranche.
S.    Benefits and Risks
142.        Benefits.  Implementing price and trade reforms, dismantling
system of mandatory production planning, streamlining regulations on plant
protection, animal health and pesticides, and allocating government
expenditures towards infrastructure and development of new technologies will
improve incentives for efficient sector growth. Liberalizing prices and trade
will allow producers and consumers to exploit the best production and trading
opportunities in both domestic and international markets. Dismantling system
of mandatory production planning will let production and marketing decisions
be based on price signals and market opportunities rather than by bureaucratic
processes. streamlining present regulations on plant protection, animal
health and pesticides will result in, first, simpler and more efficient
administration of regulatory system, second, elimination of artificial
barriers to entry and competition, and third, adoption of rules and procedures



- 40 -
which will facilitate Mexico's access to international markets. Targeting
programs to the poor and vulnerable population, increasing their coverage and
monitoring and evaluating food and nutrition programs will: (a) separate
agricultural and food consumption policy; (b) provide transparency and
distinguish budget allocations which support agricultural producers from those
that protect the poor; and (c) make government expenditure in food and
nutrition programs more cost effective. As a result, the government will be
able to reduce the incidence of malnutrition by the end of the current
administration.
143.        Risks.  Firgt, one important lesson of economic history is that
the macroeconomic climate must be supportive of policy reforms. The key
requirements are fiscal discipline, a prudent monetary policy, and a realistic
exchange rate. Policy reversal in any of these areas would endanger the
program. Second, the very purpose of agricultural policy reform is to
encourage improved resource allocation.  Changes In patterns of resource use
often are resisted by those who benefit from the status quo. If governments
do not resolutely follow through with credible policy change, the momentum for
reform may be lost and the program endangered. Third, relying on the U.S.-
Mexico-Canada PTA to implement trade policy reform in maize, wheat, and barley
does not necessarily guarantee trade and price liberalization. Over the past
five years the Mexican record of overall policy reform has been strong,
sometimes going beyond Bank's conditionality.  Moreover, the U.S. and Canada,
large producers of wheat and maize, have strong interests in guaranteeing
their producerb -ccess to the potentially large Mexican market. Therefore,
the risks seem manageable and are outweighed by the likely benefits of AGSAL
II.
P.    Coflnancina
144.        The Bank and the IDB have collaborated closely in the preparation
of AGSAL 1I, and IDS is planning to cofinance the program with a loan of
US$200 million.
G.    Neaotiations. Effectiveness. Dated Covenants and Secoid Tranche Release
Conditi2na
145.        At negotiations, the government and the Bank agreed on the final
text of the government's policy letter on acriculture and food consumption
(policv letter) policy statement and on the timetable for the introduction of
the policy reforms. The policy letter describes a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to promote greater efficiency and higher
productivity in Mexican agricultural and agro-industrial sectors, reduce
poverty and malnutrition and improve the cost-effectiveness of government
expenditures in food and nutrition programs. This policy letter has two
partst one on agricultural growth and productivity and other on food
consumption and nutrition policy (see Annex 3). In the part on agricultural
arowth and oroductivitv the governments (a) reaffirms the continuation of
reforms and sets out a plan for further action on price and trade policy for
agricultural commodities and inputs; (b) reaffirms its intention to dismantle
barriers to entry and competition since they hamper resource allocation;
(c) agrees to streamline those rules and regulations required for the
efficient operation of markets; and (d) states its intention to allocate
investment expenditure to improve rural infrastructure and agricultural
research and extension. In the section on food consumption and nutrition the



- 41 -
government states its intention oft (a) compensating poor families for the
real income losses from the consumer price effects of protecting agricultural
food production; (b) improving the present system of targeted subsidies; (c)
implementing a pilot nutrition and health program; and (d) increasing the
coverage of food consumption and nutrition programs in rural areas. The
specific actions taken and to be taken are detailed in para. 149 and the
policy matrix and its attachment (Annex 4).
146.        During negotiations, the Bank and the Mexican government reached
agreement on:
(a)   a sugar study to define the sugar policy, including the
recommendation of a timetable for achieving a target level of
protection for sugar not to exceed 20 percent (para. 64 (a));
(b)   a study to define the price and trade policy for edible beans
(para. 64(b));
(c)   a study to design a system which will eliminate CONASUPOS'S
monopoly on imports of powdered milk and will allocate import
permits in a traisparent, competitive and efficient basis (para.
64(c));
(d)   a study on peL.icides to diagnose current use, assess present
legal and institutional framework and streamline procedures to:
(i) promote competition between producers and distributors; (ii)
establish guidelines on minimum standards to deal with health and
environmental issues; and (iii) enforce quality control (para.
64(d));
(e)   a study on animal health and plant protection to: (i) assess the
regulation, organization and procedures of the system of plant
protection and animal health; and (ii) elaborate a proposal to
modernize the system and streamline its procedures (para. 64(e));
(f)   central guidelines for a medium-term food and nutrition program
(para. 109(a));
(g) terms of reference for the design of a system to evaluate and
monitor food and nutrition programs (para. 109(b));
(h)   plan to implement the said monitoring and evaluation system (para.
109(c)); and
(i)   a process for using the results of the implemented ongoing
monitoring and evaluation system (MES) to adjust the guidelines
and programs according to the lessons learned from experience
(para. 109(d)).
147.        Prior to geffctiveneas, the government has agreed to: (a) issue a
decree that modifies present cane payment arrangements (para. 65); (b)
eliminate export permits for wheat, sorghum, feedetuffs, barley, soybean,
copra, cartamo, cotton seed, tobacco, eggs, coffee, rice, sesame, sunflower,
vegetable oil (oilseed oils), beef and cattle on the hoof (para. 65); (c)
eliminate export taxes for raw cotton, cotton fibre, and swine for breeding



- 42 -
(para. 65); and (d) present to the Bank a study which identifies processes,
legislation and regulations that give SARH and other government entities the
power to establish, coordinate and enforce crop production targets (see para.
76). As dated covenants it was agreed that not later than September 30, 1991:
(a) based on the study, the government will present a satisfactory action plan
to eliminate and dismantle processes and regulations that enforce the system
of crop production targets (para. 76); and (b) the government will eliminate
import permits for green coffee (para. 65(k)).
148.        General conditions for aecond tranche release are: (a) that the
government will provide the Bank with evidence that the macroeconomic policy
framework is consistent; and (b) maintaining the policy reforms implemented up
to Board presentation and documented under this project. (Actions described
in the policy matrix and its attachment; see Annex 4.)
149.        During necotiations agreement was reached that the following
actions, satisfactory to the Bank, will have to be taken prior to second
tranche (see also Annex 4):
(a)   Price. Trade Policy and Market Reaulations
(i)   Output Markets
a.    Implement the action plan agreed upon and described in
(para. 65(a) to 65(k)); and
(ii) input Markets and Health Regulations
a.    Eliminate restrictions that impede private sector
competition to PRONASE, PRONASE's monopoly of
germplasm produced by INIFAP and limits on plant
breeding by the private sector (para. 66(a)).
b.    maintain policy of allowing prices of pesticides to be
freely determined by the markets (para. 66(b));
c.    agree on action plans to implement recommendations of
the studies on animal health, plant protection, and
quality control of pesticides (para. 66(c)); and
(b)   SARH's Production Taraets
(i)   Implement actions agreed upon to eliminate and dismantle
processes, legislation and regulations that enforce the
system of crop production targets (para. 76).
(c)   Public ExDenditure
(i)   Provision of satisfactory evidence that the level and
composition of budgeted agricultural expenditure presented
to Congress in the 1992 budget is consistent with the
macroeconomic program and with an efficient allocation of
Government resources at the sector level (para. 83).



- 43 -
(d)   Food Consuamtion and Nutrition
(i)   Present evaluation of food and nutrition programs as agreed
to in the implementation plan of the monitoring and
evaluation system (MRS) (para. 110(a)); and
(li) agree with the Bank on general and agencies' action plans
for 1993-1994 (para. 110(b)).
PkMT V - COLLABORATION WITS TINF
150.        Bank/IMF collaboration has been close over the years, especially
since 1982 when the Fund began to assist the government in addressing the
underlying causes of its economic crisis. Since that time, the government has
bonefitted from an extended arrangement for SDRS 3.4 billion, a special
emergency drawing for 8DRo 291 million after the 1985 earthquake, a stand-by
for SDRs 1.4 billion in 1986, and in 1989 for an SDRs 2.8 billion extended
arrangement through 1992, and a drawing of SDRe 453 million under the
compensatory facility.
151.        Consultations between Fund and Bank staff concerning Mexico's
current economic situation and prospects have led to a common understanding
about the measures needed to bring the stabilization program to a successful
conclusion, strengthen the balance of payments, and restore sustainable
growth. Further consultations on macroeconomic performance will take place
between the two institutions during our ongoing adjustment operations.
PMRT VI - R3COMHNEDaXION
152.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
May 29, 1991
Washington, D.C.



APa4 Ic
am  ......... . . . .7                 7A      &        0.1      0.6     L.0      4.2      .8      0.0    -00      .4.2     30       2.6    -.7       1.7     1.1      3.2     $A
gPDnfie1a                                9 .8    18*     28.       4.0      2.8    10.0    106    20.7        28    60.0    sos6   881        50.7    74A       Ml8.    *01.7    a".     MA.
hIafm 00 e fb   .  .-.                                                             5,   .  .  .2    158%81    as.,3s   2.0w    SL.o*  so..9%   o1.s%   5.n%   80.2%  1,1.8%   114.2%   20.0%    20610
dopwcapu -                     LS~8.   31       8.       .1        S      0&1     1.2      8A      8.1    -8.1    -76       0       -84.    -1A    .-.4    -0.0        0.0      1.
Oansmagtmncp.rCla..........              0.2      2.0      .       -1      l.a      IA       1.7     4       4.8    -1.4      0.       0.2    ..       -7.7    -0.0    -2.2           1.0   0
FbdladuliIsWags  at.._                   &.1       4     -1.1      1.7    6O0       0.6   1I"       -4A4      1.2     1.0    -R        2.0     1.    -10.2    4*    -12.7    .0.0        _.1
Totalwwmnm t-..............              10.6    21.0    26.2       I6    20.6    21.3    20.       27.2    27.      22.8    20.0     1*      21.2    16.2    19.2    21.0    22.8    10.7
Milon Savig. .................17.8    18.8    21.3    13A4    17.6    17.8    10.7    21*         20.      20.6    2&*      22.2    27.0    17.2    21.0   1IO4    20.9    10.4
GOP fstrAcclnt ........-21                       .41      &.      -2.0    -2.0    -8&2     -&0      -8L8    -0.4    -&.0      3.       2.4     0.7    -1.3      28      -1.6    -1.*    -2.2
Cwffst Accut    ....                    .470   -2804   .448      .42      -408   -1218   .870   -10740  -1606    .92         6418    42U1    1267   -1078    am8   -am0   -mm8   -826
empmtol Goods &tNon FaL t. 1er10e       1064    S08    108w       1872     98e    288      7020   2004    280IP   2640    71S5   001S8   270    21678   27814   2006    89888   38388
Not kwwleMaIoa Rm   vo (sop)..           01      1261    21ee     460      838      744     682    8163    4607    166       SW2    6600    22        2870    822       1202    206    OM
t~cflsG8se1gicwtiia1.......    62      7*9      0.9      1*      8.8    -68.    10.0      6.1    11        21*8    1.6      6.7     4.A       L*     10.7     &0       3.*     8.2
0O Exo or    grcwlh. Mo__..                -     28.     40.        ..       .       -        .     71.0    20.8    31.       6.0      1.1   .0.0      -.4     -.3       3.2      -a      4.6
MNw-cl ESpo t. ral rwth rmte  .            .      008     2.s                .       ..       .     -1.8     0.2   -16.2    07*       28.8    -4.0    80.      S".      -12      2.5      10
E,cfl. OweF noodna pomwU tw....          0.        a1    27A       80;    10.7       0     12.7    66.       MG*     .9       8.9    109    4A4   -20.0    28.2          63      13.2    17.6
Eqw%rta0IU0wMenDP..--.-----              0.8       a     12.8    11.4       7*8     7.0     7.4    10.7    10.4    16.3    10,    17.2    18.0         1.8.    10.7    16.7    15,7    10.2
"A GO" me 8rafgrwthts.L..               .      0O4      0.6     20       8.8    10.1        I    31.0    17.8   -87.0   -88.       17.       11   -12.4       4.5    37.6    18.6    18.0
hcul tPncrudnalpcwth ae ....           0.6    10.8      21      15.      4.7     MA.    0.0*     68.2    30.2   -40.6  .481&         28    18.    -11.7       8.7    44.7    91.3    27.1
P,Iip  tGUMOIOurlwt OMP...........     11.4      0.6      12    139       as6      0.2     0.2    12.0    12.8    11.6       0.6      0.     10.0    12.6    12.3    14.3    14*e    10.7
R.bourc9ajemoefrarrnt GP....             .2.1    -1.8     0*       .8    -1*8    .21    -1.0        2.      -2.4      8.6     9.7      7.0     6.0      4*3      .4      2.4     0.6    .0.8
Twrm of TVWd hadex (1060-100)..         686      &68.    104.     68.7    08,1    60.      78.3      100    07.4    64.8    77.4    70.1        72    61tA     87.3    86.2    66.1
Rinalfulhwge Relebxex (1060100) bi     106*    106.2   111.8   118.    106.    104.0   106.3         100    90.7   134.8   137.8      114   *111.7   148.    IOtA    2L4    117.3   112.5
Faeo. Debt h,Ddkatme l
TOta DOO34Uon US$).--                   3514   I1I4    66126        .    2212    606    20610   8737    7021    6601    0M6    0402    0656   10007   1004.4?  10018    0681   1012212
Pub4*000 .....  ....                   28    7546   8161M          .    1487    8106   16806   3801    43033    15681   6676    675 72701   7800    04336   8066              MS?8  70I
Plivats Mt.ngrwnntsd DOD_             1*10    850    2868                764    277   4843.2    7300   10200    0100   14600   I6SM    15748   18108   14148    6081    3000    OM0
Tota DOoOdExceteNFO(%                  146.    VIA.   311*          .    111.2   m2.0   292.    278,3   300.6   810.    342.2   814.7   360.6   461.1   006.    344.8   201.             MA8.
TOWDoia 0cuftem GOMP (9)                  18    10.4       87              10.2    16L6    21.6    20.8    81*3    60.A      S".      6.0   6a"        77.6    77*9    87.0    48.6    48.
OMb ServIce ULT (Uonus  ....9            66     1275    6128        .      468    1300    S34      O840   109      12800   1207    16907   14484   1200    11064   137M    12137   1028
0obtGso emMLTXWnw46tGP(4..               Li1      19      8.2       ..     2.       8.4     3.8      4.      4.       7.2     0.7      8.1     7*8     0*       7        7.0     6.8     4*3
Debt Sevlm ULTIExpor 6OM  (10).           24    28         48       .    28.5    48,4    47.7    44.        40.8    47.0    47.0    62.       62.    6S"       40.1    47.3    38*        W.
h Oers!tMLT (MUn US$)                    1SS     662    1069        ..       7     20      108     4660    611      776      81W    1026      00M     707      7601    7541    780      7172
biterest LTIExpcftQW8PS(10) ....8L    10.2    18.6                  .      4.4    10.6    18.4    22.0    28.8    20.7    30.0    34.0    34.         86.1    27.0    26.0       8.      18.7
WOessMLTFCnRiAGO tBb(.... . .            085      0.0     2.4       ..     0A       0.7     1.4      2.4     2.4      4.0     68       6.8       1      6.0     8.       4.3     8.       8.0
Uomvuldm bm
Prik  y limos (t  of OM  .....            ..      ..        .              0.0    -1.4    -4.6    -8.0    -8.0      -.8       4.6     &S6    8.0       2.0      5.6      7*9     7.7     6.0
kA  4 EN  WlONe(W*cI(0of OM..                               ..            -1.1    -8.6    -8.8    -4.6   -10.6   -11.2       -.1    -4.1    -4*6   -8.0         1.1      -4    -2.2 
mE/GO       .........2.7    20.1    27.0    10.8    21.8    so.7    28.6                             1*3    38.      87.2    34.1   0S*       OM.    41*0    48.7    08.0    381
Mcnet.y a-(a       muhal) .... ...      14.0      1*9    86.1       1    12.2    10.7    20.8    41.2    48.1         0.4    68.1    64.1    17.6    47.7    70*3    42.3    10.6
d UGIiibig In 1867 me redl lnkht,le minbuan- mg es
biAs  -memta h- bysSes ugoeA I  pimfdemo.  Iare  IRm. Fa dePreltlOon
di Refers a to06-76



- J45 -
|              J       P   , *        3~ 2g~qn  h mqqq*I-g s  flq  22#  
@q kb3#ES itlniq'qsqq.qqw.qoqa: $: S: 'q
- 33 gl!|l  3                         --6|2;;4l2>
I 2    g d     s ;w ||||   . |ee q'qh;q                 s3%   3tt
|   |d   g8  gs    ;   t 4 S  eef e; e |;l ;  F, 52    X  j  ~d 'Io   |
:~ ~         g-Sif j:':Z ** eio:oe5 *-I 2eGg      4 .ee
c ~    ~~~           $jd0A a; &'1N:;   :         ::g    
I                '.   I- '-i 
iLIiS8llt0ltilXtil!5:: i?lil  f11;



i         ,
li~ ~ X8S3  S3S8X;888                                              3            l0]g              
P@t l    iiW   XlitS XlSllllSillllill||llSXl|SllilliX           ;3< ff J |
I ?1          -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - - -
iS S~~~~~~~~I
i~ ~    ~P 1111 55U  U55sssss:t!i;Iss5s555ii 455aJ  is



- 4"0-
hnssts
MVC000 MR_OUL             SE" SUSM=  LA
6 STATWfEfTOFF IRW:dTMIW
(M so March 3t, 101)
_                   ~~~~~~~~~S6 Milln)
Fiscal                                                                                     Oilnal ADorovae
YeOu                          ObIW                        Type of Suanes           LOWn         Equity       Toal
1011810        Indutis Prted Cirle, SA.              Indusi Equlment                0.80          0.00        0.80
16w            btul de Maxim, OA  AV                 Aroralt Enghe Overhaul         0.t0          0.00        0.60
1lO1            Arosolar, S.D.. ut                   Twist Dbi                      0.30          0.00        0.30
19821U616      Fundidara Manerray, SA a              Swiel                          z30          21.40       23.70
1860           Tube de Acero de Meximo               SSneu  e"e Plpes               0.00          0.10        1.00
low            Qulmloadelfby.S. at                   Sodium Sulphate                0.70          0.00        0.70
1984116        tnduadeit4leo,SDA                     Conqstcn Equipment             0.00          -00         2.00
1970           MinraSdl 11el1 at                     lmon Ore Msng                  1.E0          0.00        1.60
1S71           Cianesw MlAm.SA  a                    Textilee                       12.00         0.00       12.0
1972           Promotora Paep  Psidbo.
SAde CV. at                         PutpndPPaPat U                 0.00         0.00         0.00
1073(7         Oemsnte ronV ue . SGA .a              Onetnt                        1690           0.00       18.90
1974/31        Cmun A,etosit   W  at                 Tourism                        1.00          0.30        1.J0
97an            Maox,S    at                        Stain   SIsal                 1zoo           320        16.20
'1781B1183     Papel" Ponderma. S.                   Pulp and Pae                  10.70          6.00       16.70
1978           Teraflo Meslanos SA at                Petrochemicals                 10.00         0.00       19.00
1g71811h6      Hotl Cinino RPal  apa. SA             TouIsmn                        0.00         4.20         4.20
10S70A3        e6ree  Tdlte  SA                      Cement                       108.00          7.90      176.90
1S791          Conductontesray. SA                   Eleot"clWbre &Cab             21A0          oo          21.40
1080           IndustriesIstol, SD  at               Particle Boad                 26,00          0.00       26.00
19E0           Vidl Piano de Meo. S.A                Flat Glas                    114.90          0.00      114.S0
106w           M rRetalW deooA"s. SA  a!             Mining                       110.00          0.00      110.0C
1060           Corpoan  Agrcnduta  S.A.              Agiuelee                      11.30          3.00       14.30
1s61186        CalubsicelCantauro, SA  of            Pulp and Paper                 09.60         0.00       60.60
103            Caput lGoode Fality of                Capt Goods FIancing          100.00          0.00      100.00
1964T          Metea S. A.                           AutoChass                      8.00          140         0.40
1S4           Protebson, OA de C.V.                 Abuso                          ZOO          0.80         2.80
19S41SO        Pronclonoee Induetlaue
1t1lo3aea S.OA                      Petrocienheae                 S340          0.00        W6.40
1060/68        Celulosay Papl de urango,
SA de aCM                           Pup and Paper                 10.00         3.10        1310
1196           Agmex Phae I (PEO                     Veg. and Frut Procesing        1.60         0.60         2.00
1t86           ClaauConeIr wr Faa ol                 Conetr. Guwante Fty           20.00         0.00        20.00
19087          hduebiu Suifae, a%SA. do GV.          Chemiclsab *Pelrohemkci        2.00          0.60        2.60
1087           Saled Power de Mexico                 Auto Asembl                    0.00         0.00         9.00
1S8?           Ceent MaiketAgratoe of                Constucto Materialis          27.00         0.00        37.00
1se8           Apso, S.A  de C.V. od                  Cement & Cone.aLons          4S.00         0.00        4&00
198           Solumil, S. de O.V.                   Food nd Food Procesng         20.60          2.00       22.60
1is8           PofrAB  , AS de C.V.                  Petrochemloslo                14.50          0.00       14.80
1060            upo Feoelsa                          Cormr Goods Congmora    80.00              27Veo       107? 0
1980            _Snce swan                           DevelopmentIFinance           60.00          0.00       60.00
1060           Cementos Mxdomnos                     Cement aConet. Materials      88.00          0.00       88.00
1500/91        Condumex                              Elenomanufaoturng             63.00         0.00        6300
198o            nd o, S.. de CV.                     Petrochemis                   30.00          0.00       00.00
1SS0           SnooNaoi   ldo Meco                   DevelopmentF  Fian            60.00         0.00        60.00
logo Sancomer Credit Line                              velopment Fance             20.00         0.00        20.00
1001           Mxeio ftund di                        Mon y &CoplWmket               0.00          6o.         6.60
1001           Po"rl,8 GA                            ChatemJlo &PFelrceltoake      s2OO          0.00        32zoo
1001           Vo Fbtdo                              Glass & Related Msnulu.      1260OO          0.00      126.00
Im               tro, S..                            G 1 Related Manut              0.00         10.20       10.20
1S01           Apo     GA de CV. e/                  Cenl&const Metlals            20.0          0o00        20.00
t2g1           Vto. S                                Glue  eted Manuf.             1.00          00          1t600
kos Totl Coen btmto  of                                          1t468.6o        00,80     1568.40
Lose Cancellatne, Terttllone,
pawmente and Sale                                                OM"            2e         9o.40
TetalOortments NowNHeld byF0                                       487.60        03.20      681.00
nl Invnenbt which heaee ln fuly caneled, terminatedrn off, sold, redeemed or epWid.
f Lown amount inlud  gurantees d23 millOn (      tes    Me ,et
37A millin (pasoo) and 620 milon (Ci
di Und,wrttng ( S0MMmlc).
et Signed & dibursd In Match 1001.
11 Apprvsb not et signed.



- 48                               Annex 3
Page 1 of 35
MEXICO: AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Policv Letter from the Mexican Government on
Aariculture and Food Consumntion Policy
A.   Acricultural Growth and Productivity
As it is known, the Mexican economy has experienced a profound
transformation which is mainly characterized by reduction and control of
inflation, reorganization of public finances, public sector restructuring,
external debt renegotiation, trade liberalization for most products and the
establishment of a maximum tariff of 20 percent, gradual substitution of import
permits by tariffs, as well as the elimination of general subsidies.
At present, the set of macroeconomic and structural adjustment
policies undertaken by the Mexican Government lay the basis for a more adequate
economic environment leading to the development of the agricultural sector.
The main objectives of the agricultural modernization policy aret
increase production and productivity of the agricultural sector, promote the
development of adequate investment schemes, as well as raise the producers,
welfare, mainly of those with low income.
The agrioultural sector policy addresses a fundamental change in the
role of the public sector for the planning and regulation of agricultural
markets. At present, the strategy is to promote a major participation of the
social and private sectors, including the communities and associations of rural
producers.
The Mexican Government's strategy for the agricultural sector will
be to support the process of structural adjustment through the following
measuress shift public expenditures in favor of infrastructure rehabilitation
and creation; eliminate institutional distortions and rigidities that restrain
the production capacity of the sector; reduce and eliminate subsidies within the
framework of a highly distorted international market} create and promote new
production and marketing schemes within the context of an open economy; establish
an adequate environment for larger investmentst develop an effective linkage
between the technological development and the producer through integrated
extension schemes; develop a statistical, financial and market information system
which provides adequate information to producers for a timely and effective
decision-making in the allocation of their resources.
Several measures, without precedent at the international level, have
been taken in order to meet these objectives. These measures have been oriented
to eliminate excessive regulation in the production and marketing of most
agricultural products, and to liberalize foreign trade (in spite of having to
face an international environment characterized by a high level of protection and
government subsidies of agricultural products in most countries). At the same
time, government intervention to set agricultural product prices for producers
and consumers has been substantially reduced.   The process of parastatals



- 49 -                             Annex 3
Page 2 of 35
disincorporation and the elimination of general food subsidies, which are being
replaced by targeted subsidies to the poor.
The main measures adopted by the administration to improve the
productivity and efficiency of the agricultural sector ares
1.    The elimination of "Guarantee Prices" for the following products:  rice,
wheat, sorghum, barley, soybean, cottonseed, safflower (cartamo),
sunflower, copra and sesame. This implies that the prices are determined
by market forces and that the Government has no intervention in the
marketing of these products.
2.    Elimination of import permits for beef, pork, rice, sorghum, oat, soybean,
oilseed and a considerable amount of agricultural inputs (seeds and new
agricultural machinery).
3.    Elimination of export permits for beef, cattle on the hoof, coffee and
tobacco.
4.    Elimination of barriers to entry to the wheat-tortilla industry.
S.    Elimination of restrictive export practices which favor monopoly by some
producers, associations.
6.    In less than a year and through a difficult and complex agreement process,
the Mexican authorities have made a considerable effort, to make the sugar
industry productive and liberalize its market. Substantial changes have
been achieved such as:  elimination of the sales tax; elimination of
A3UCAR S.A. monopoly which is practical3y no longer involved in the
purchase and distribution of sugar, thus encouraging the establishment of
private channels for its marketing; elimination of differential pricesl
liberalization of sugar imports by using a scheme of variable tariffs; and
completion of the privatization of all sugar mills.
Another substantial change was the modification of sugarcane payment
arrangements, which rationalizes trade relations between sugar workers and
industrialists and establishes inc6ntives for improving sugar production.
The main changes introduced ares  modification of the payments system
according to sugar content or sugar extracted, the elimination of loans to
producers which led to the development of excessive fragmentation of
landholdings, the modernization of labor relations thus facilitating the
development of new sources of employment In the sugar fields, thereby
leading to improvements in the efficiency of the sugar industry.
Other actions taken were the liquidation or disincorporation of 17
parastatal enterprises from the agricultural sectors Tabaco Mexicanos,
Comision Nacional de Fruticultura; Productos Forestales Mexicanoo,
Alimentos Balanceados de Mexico, Centro Nacional de Investigaciones
Agrarias, Fideicomiso para el Sostenimiento del Patrimonio Indigena del
Valle del Mezquital y la Huasteca Hidalguense, Aceitera Guerrero,
Impulsora Guerrense del Cocotero, Complejo Fruticola Industrial de la
Cuenca del Papaloapan, Desarrollo Industrial del Cafe Mexicano, Industrias
de Agricultores, Maderas Industrializadas de Quintana Roo, Nutrimex,



- so -
Page 3 of 35
Servicios Ejidales, Servicios Forestales, Triplay de Palenque, Fideicomiso
para Apoyo al Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales y
Agropecuarias.
CONASUPO restructuring which includes:   reduction in the purchase of
grains and oilseeds under the "Guarantee Prices" system; disincorpozation
of ICONSA; approval for the disincorporation of LICONSA's industrial
plantes access of the social and private sector to BORUCONSA's facilities;
sale or relocation of DICCONSA urban stores as well as improvement of
services in the rural stores. Additionally, the disincorporation of part
of ANDSA's facilities was initiated.
Rationalization of government subsidies granted through credits and quotas
for water or electricity consumption for irrigation purposes. Likewise,
the crop insurance system has been reformed in order to make it more
efficient.
It is important to underline that most of the measures taken have
implied a change in the government's role in the agricultural sector, mainly in
the marketing process.   The non-intervention of the government in direct
marketing activities has created a gap due to lack of marketing agents and calls
for Government's attention and determination for the creation of such markets.
In spite of transition problems, the Mexican Government is committed
to carry out the modernization of the agricultural sector in order to improve the
welfare of the rural population.   This is why it will continue with the
application of policies which strengthen the measures adopted during the last
years.
The strategy to be undertaken comprises guidelines and actions to be
adopted with regard to foreign trade, prices, inputs, research and public
investment.
As regard to foreign trade, the government policy will continue
supporting exports of agricultural and forestry products through the elimination
of regulations limiting trade, and promoting ar.d identifying new markets and
financial alternatives. This in order to integrate the national economy into the
international trade. Also the liberalization process continues in concordance
with bilateral and multilateral negotiations being carried out by the Mexican
Government in the trade area.
With regard to the price policy for agricultural products, the
intention is to continue reducing government intervention so that prices be
determined according to the market forces operating in an open economy. At
present, most products have been excluded from the "Guarantee Price" system, with
the exception of maize and beans. Prices for certain agricultural products are
established through the "System of Agreement on Prices" (Precios de
Concertacion), which includes both producers and consumers, and which price
levels are linked to international prices. The objective of this scheme is to
facilitate the transition of the price liberalization process, since there were
not corresponding markets.



Annex 3
Page 4 of 35
However, due to the characteristics of the markets and the strategic
situation of maize, wheat, sugar and barley, these will receive special
treatment:
I     Maize: A formula to calculate price increases will be established so that
the dollar equivalent price will be constant in real terms, thus giving
more certainty to producers.
II    Sugar:  It is at present necessary to capitalize the sugar industry.  To
this effect, a constant real price in dollars will be maintained
temporarily. At the same time, the Mexican Government's intention would
be to reach, in a reasonable time, a protection level of 20 percent,
compatible with Mexico's foreign trade policy.
However, it should be noted that the international market for sugar is
highly volatile with regard to price due to the serious distortions which
result from the intervention of different countries with high subsidies
for sugar exports and protection of their local markets. This situation
makes it difficult to achieve this goal.
For the above reason and in order to have the analytical elements to
reduce protection, a study will be undertaken to evaluate and quantify the
needs for capitalization of the sugar industry. Based on the diagnosis of
the study, the time and timetable to implement a price stabilization
system within a range of prices which protects both the producer and
consumer from extreme price fluctuations will be determined.
III   Wheat:   Due to its importance in the negotiations of the Free Trade
Agreement with the United States and Canada, the Mexican Government's
intention is to maintain its current level of protection.
IV    Barley:  Its current level will be maintained for the 1991-1992 cycle.
However, an increase not greater than 5 percent in nominal terms is
expected during next year.
Moreover, an improvement in the linkages between research and
extension services, as well as a better quality of zoosanitary and phytosanitary
services, essential to achieve a better international integration, will be
favored. At present, specific studies which will provide the necessary elements
for the improvement of these services, are under preparation.
A study on Mexico's agricultural planning system is expected to be
carried out in order to identify and eliminate the distortions that such system
generates.
As one of its fundamental tasks, the strategy of agricultural
modernization aims at facilitating producers' access to quality inputs at
moderate prices.  To this end, import permits for inputs will be abolished
provided this is congruent with the country's general foreign trade policy.
With regard to seeds, the Federal Government decided to revise the
current legislation and will soon submit a Bill on the Production, Protection,
Certification and Trade of Seeds, to be consideres by Congress. This bill calls



- 52 -Annex 3
Page 5 of 35
for the elimination of excessive regulation and will promote private sector
participation as well as free competition to PRONASE.
It is also considered necessary to create an integrated support and
information system of agricultural markets, by which producers can make good
decisions and efficiently diversify their production.
With regard to production infrastructure, public expenditures will
be devoted to promote those activities which increase productivity, encouraging
the participation of all sectors in the expansion and rehabilitation of the
infrastructure. Likewise, it is expected to facilitate and create an appropriate
environment for investment in order to increase transportation and storage
capacity.
The transformation of the agricultural sector proves to be a
difficult challenge, mainly because of the many existing distortions in the
international markets.   This situation creates problems beyond those of an
economic nature.   However, we in the Mexican Government are certain that
consolidating the progress so far achieved through the success of our future
actions, presented in the annex to this letter, will raise the welfare of the
agricultural sector and of our country, as a whole.
S.    Food Consumotion and Nutrition Policy
The priority of the Mexican Government is to put an end to
malnutrition, which is linked to poverty. The existing food programs have been
improved so as to provide more benefits to the poor. The Mexican Government will
continue developing these programs and will create those which are more adequate
to protect segments of the population most exposed to potential problems due to
a lack of nutrients.
The main strategy to improve the existing food programs has been a
better targeting of the food subsidies. A scheme of general subsidies is being
replaced by another scheme in which subsidies targeted to specific groups of the
population are predominant. At present, subsidies are mostly directed to those
who really need them, consequently the Federal Government saves on subsidies
which previously reached the better off segments of the population.   The
improvement in targeting of subsidies has taken place both in the rural and urban
sectors.
0    In the urban sector, the generalized subsidy of tortillas has been
replaced by a daily allowance equivalent to one kilogram of tortillas for
households with incomes below two minimum wages-Tortivales Program. Likewise,
CONASUPO industrialized Milk distributes subsidized milk to poor households with
children under the age of 12.
In the rural sector the DICCONSA chain of stores have been relocated
in isolated communities without marketing systems or where they were not
efficient. The population buys basic goods at better prices through an adequate
supply in the rural stores. In particular, thers is a special subsidy program
for powdered milk, corn and flour. The expansion of the DICCONSA chain of stores



-53 -                            Anne  3
Page 6 of 35
in the rural communities has been accompanied by the elimination of these stores
in the urban areas where the non-poor population predominates.
The support program for the consumption of staple food by the poor
population described in the last two paragraphs (Food Program in the context of
this letter) will continue to be in effect, even though the modalities could vary
so as to better direct subsidies to the targeted population.
While the Food Program is devoted to the poor, special attention
should be given to that sector of the population which has been identified as
potentially more vulnerable to the effects of an eventual nutritLonal deficiency.
For operational purposes, this vulnerable population has been defined as the poor
sector comprising pregnant or nursing women as well as children under the age of
five. The Mexican Government has considered a special program for this segment
of the population. This program consists in delivering a food supplement, which
is linked to medical care (Food, Nutrition and Health Program, in the context of
this letter).
However, due to the potential problems that would result from the
Introduction of the Food, Nutrition and Health Program at the national level and
because of the risk of not reaching the desired nutritional objectives, a pilot
project is being carried out. This project will provide a basic idea on the
operational, institutional and financial viability of expanding the Food,
Nutrition and Health Program at the national level, mainly in the rural areas.
The Mexican Government will continue to provide food and nutritional
support to the poor through different components under the Food and Nutrition
Program. However, due to the importance of protecting the vulnerable population
and in the absence of sufficient resources to cover all the poor, priority would
be given to the most vulnerable segment of the population.
The different programs to eradicate malnutrition are complementary.
The different instruments of the Food Program facilitate the improvement, In
general terms, of the food, nutrition and socioeconomlc conditions of the poor
and, consequently, of the most vulnerable segment of the population whlch is
considered as a subset of the poor. On the other hand, the Ministry of Realth,
through the Health and Nutrition Program, provides food support and nutritional
orientatlon to the vulnerable population by using the infrastructure of the
health services. The food supplements distributed through this program come from
international donations only. The Health, Nutrition and Food Program, at presnt
in the preliminary stage of a pilot project--as already indicated--differs from
the Health and Nutrition Program in that the food component is financed by fiscal
resources which are partially complemented with external credit.   For the
purposes of this letter, the set of programs to improve nutrition and eradicate
malnutrition--including the Food Program as defined before--will be called the
Food and Nutrition Program.
It is convenient to differentiate consumption subsidies from the
price policy and the promotion of the agricultural production to obtain a clearer
picture in the programming and budgeting of the subsidies policy of the Mexican
Government. This distinction is also important to ensure support of basic food
consumption by vulnerable groups. Consequently, subsidies and support provided



_ 54                                Annex 3
Page 7 of 35
to the agricultural production will be independent from those given to the Food
and Nutrition Program for accounting purposes.
In the urban areas, the Mexican Government will compensate poor
households (defined as targeted population for the Tortivales Program) for losses
in their purchasing power which result from the effects that protection afforded
to agricultural producers of food products have on consumer prices.   This
compensation will be effected through the Tortivales Program or another program
of targeted subsidy adequately designed for that purpose.
In the rural areas, DICCONSA will continue to use corn and corn flour
subsidies to lessen the impact that the support policy to producers has on rural
consumers. However, as far as the coverage of the Food, Nutrition and Health
Program is extended, this program could replace maize and maize flour subsidiest
this would be subject to what is indicated in guideline No. 10.
Within this framework, and in order to carry out the National Food
Program 1990-1994, published in the Official Newspaper (Diario Of icial) on August
23, 1990, the Food and Nutrition Program for 1992-1994 will include the following
guideliness
1.    The Mexican Government believes that the Food and Nutrition Program is an
important instrument to alleviate poverty and malnutrition in the rural
and urban areas.
2.    The implementation of the Food and Nutrition Program should be consistent
with the execution of other priority programs of the Mexican Government
and with the equilibrium of public finances.
3.    Within the Food Program,  it will be recessary to ensure that the
vulnerable population of the urban areas be included among the
beneficiaries, if they have not been included yet because of lack of
information or other reasons. The participation of the Health System,
through medical services provided to the vulnerable population, will be
necessary to detect whether this part of the population is dully included
in the list of beneficiaries, according to the mechanism agreed with
Conasupo.
4.   The Ministry of Health is responsible for the execution of the pilot
project for the Food, Nutrition and Health Program, and for its possible
expansion.
5.    The results of the pilot project, at present under implementation, will
provide a preliminary diagnosis of the present administrative capacity of
the health system for the implementation of the Food, Nutrition and Health
Program.
6.    Priority will be given, in the short run, tsj the design and implementation
of the Food, Nutrition and Health Program in rural areas. At the same
time, the application of the Food Program will continue to be improved so
as to increase its cost-effectiveness.   It will also be necessary to
ensure that the most vulnerable segment of the population benefits from



_55                              Annex 3
Page 8 of 35
the Program, and to reach a reasonable balance in the distribution of
benefits between the rural and urban areas.
7.    In general terms means testing will serve to identify the beneficiaries of
the Food, Nutrition and Health Program, and of the Nutrition Program in
the urban area. only.
8.    The infrastructure of CONASUPO and its branches will serve as a primary
channel for supplying and distributing food related to the Food, Nutrition
and Health Program, and to the Food Program, in areas where better means
of distribution are non-existent.   However, in the case of the Food,
Nutrition and Health Program the social organizations or municipalities
will carry out the secondary or final distribution in communities where
CONASUPO does not have the infrastructure or where this is not
appropriate.
9.    According to the implementation capacity of the different institutions
involved, and based on the results from the evaluation and monitoring
systems described below, the government will make the budgetary provisions
to continue with the application of the programs.
10.  A program, under the coordination and responsibility of the Ministry of
Programming and Budgeting, will be designed and implemented in order to
follow-up, monitor and evaluate the pilot project and the Food and
Nutrition Program. The results from the monitoring and evaluation program
will determine the future of the Food and Nutrition Program. In sums
3)    If the project is considered to be successful, it would be expanded
depending on the implementation capacity of the health system.
Measures will be taken to increase this capacity.
b)    If the pilot project fails due to administrative reasons and
deficiencies in its implementation, it would be redesigned and
included in the medium-term action plan--whose elaboration will be
coordinated by SPP--to be executed for an additional year.
c)    If the pilot project fails to achieve its nutritional objectives, it
would be abandoned.
d)    The results obtained from the evalua_ion of the Food and Nutrition
Program would serve as a basis to make its components congruent to
the  guidelines of  the medium-term  program  (1992-1994).   The
parameter to evaluate all programs, with the exception of
Tortivales, will be their nutritional benefit on the targeted
population. The Tortivales program will be evaluated on the basis
of its efficiency and effectiveness to support food consumption by
the targeted population.
e)    The results from the evaluations would also be used to reallocate
resources among the different components of the Food and Nutrition
Program.



-56-                              Annex 3
Page 9 of 35
11.   The Ministry of ProgrammLng and Budgeting vill be in charge to ensure the
existence of the necessary analytical capacity for SES implementation.
12.  The action plans of the Food and Nutrition Program will include the
proposals for budgetary resources to implement the program during 1993 and
1994.
may 29, 1991



- 7 -
1ll                                 SECRETARIA PARTICULAR Page a0nf 3
Of. No. 547
tM4xico. D.F.  a 29 de mayo de 199t.
SEI
NCIEND Y CRE1011 PUSLICO
SR. BARBER CONABLZ
Presidente
Banco Mundial
Washington. D.C.
con relariAn Al Sagundo Prfttauo
Sectorial Agropecuarlo  (AGSAL II),  adJunto D1 presente  me peruitO
enviar a usted la Cartk de Politica de "Productividad y Crecimiento
Agricola" suscrita por el Secretario de Agrlcultura y Recursos Hi-
drAulicos, Profr. Carlos Hank  GonZAlez, asi como la correspondiente
al "Programa Nutricional y Alimentario" suscrita por el Secretarlo
de Prograuacitn y Presupuesto. Dr. Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Le6n,
quienes son los responsables de coordinar l Instrumentaci6n de las
politicas deecritas en cada una de ellas.
La matriz de pol3itica adJunta,
resume log objetivos, politicas y acciones del programa del Sector
Aropecuario y Programa Nutricional y Alimentario del Gobierno Fede-
ral para los pr6ximos aftos.
Agradezco de antemano su atencifn
al presente, y sin otro particular, reitero a usted la seguridad de
mi consideraci6f =As distinguida.
SUFRAGIO EFECTIVO. NO REELECC ION
*                     ~~~~~~~El Sec  cienda y
o    Pbl co 



OF. NO. 1.O.-O19.                              Page 11 of 35
SECRLCTARIAI Dt PROGRAIACION MEXICO, D.F., A 29 DE MAYO DE 1991.
y PRE5uPUESTO
SR. BARBER CONABLE
Presidente del Banco Mundial
Presente.
Terminar con Ia desnutrici6n asociada con Is pobreza es prioritario pare el Gobbemo de
M6xico. Los programas de alimentaci6n existentes han sido perfeccionadas pare que
beneficien mas a la poblacl6n pobre. El Gobierno de Mdxico los continuar6 mejorando y
crearb los que convengan pare r ander a la poblaci6n mis expuesto a problemas
potenclales por fafta de nutrientes.
Dirigir mojor los subsidios alimentarios ha sido la estrategia central para mejorar los
programas de alimentaci6n exisitentes. Un esquema de subsidios generalizados ha
dado su lugar a otro en el cual predominan los subsid os dirigidos a grupos especficos
de la poblad6n. Los subsidlos benefician ahora mis a quienes realmento los necesitan,
a] tiempo que el Goblerno Federal ahorra el costo de dar subsidios a sectores de la
poblact6n que no los requieren. La mejor direcci6n de los subsidios ha tenido lugar
tento on el medio urbano como en el rural.
Por lo que toca at medio urbano, el substdio generalizado a la tortilla ha sido sustitufdo
nor Is entrega diaria de un kilogramo de tortff!a a las tamilias quo perciben un ingroso
Interior de dos salarios mfnimos -Programa de Tortivales-. Por su parte, el programs do
distribuci6n do leche subsiaiada por parte de la empresa Leche Industrialzada
Conasupo, se dirige especsifcamente a las familias de escasos recursos con niAos
menores a los doce alos de edad.
En cuanto of medio rural, se ha iniciado la reubicaci6n de las tindas Diconsa, para
siuarlas en comunidades apartadas que carec(an de sistemas de comercializaci6n, o en
Ias quo 6stos no er-n eficlentes. Mediante un adecuado abastecimniento de las tiendas
rurales, la poblaci6n consigue los productos bisicos a mejores preclos. En particular,
existe un programa especial de subsidios a la leche en polvo, el marz y su harina. La
expansi6n del sistema Diconsa en las comunidades rurates ha ido acompahada de un
cierre de tiendas en aquellas zonas urbanas en las que predomina la poblaci6n quo no
es pobre.
El programa de apoyo al consumo de alimentos b6sicos de la poblaci6n pobre descrho
en los dos pirrafos anteriores (Programa Alimentario, para efectos de esta carts) seguirh
vigente, aunque sus modalldades pudieran variar bn la medida en que fuera factible
dirigir mejor los subsidios a la poblaci6n objetivo.



Annex 3
w  - 59 -                  Page 12 of 35
5ECRCTARWA OE PROGRAMACION
V PRESUP%ASTO
Si blen el Programa Alirnentario permite atender a la poblaci6n pobre, especial cuidado
merece la poblaci6n que ha sido identificada como potencialmente mis vulnerable a los
efectos de una eventual deficiencia nutricional. Para tines operativos, diche poblaci6n
vulnerable se ha definido como la pobre formada por las mujeres gestantes o en
periodo de lactancia, asf coma los ninos menores de 5 anos de edad. Para esta
poblaci6n, el Gobierno de  M6xico ha considerado un programa especial que consiste
en la entrega de un complemento alimentario ligado con la atenci6n m6dica (Programa
de Alimentaci6n, Nutrici6n y Salud, para efectos de esta carta).
Sin embargo, en vista de las dificultades potenciales que significar(a implantar dicho
Programa de Alimentaci6n, Nutrici6n y Salud a nivel nacional y del riesgo de no alcarnzar
los objetivos de nutrici6n deseados, se estS realizando un proyecto piloto. Este proyecto
dart urna primers idea sobre la viabilidad operativa, institucional y financiera de expandir
e1 Programa de Alimentaci6n, Nutrici6n y Salud a nivel nacional, particularmente en las
ireas rurates.
El Gobierno de Mexico continuart brindando apoyo alimentario y nutricional a la
poblacion pobre mediante los diversos programas que componen el Programs
utricional y Alimentario. Sin embargo, en raz6n de la importancia de no dejar
desprotegida a la poblaci6n vulnerable en caso de que los recursos no permitieran
atender a la totalidad de la poblaci6n pobre, se darta pr oridad a la poblacl6n vulnerable
en la cobertura de los programas de apoyo alimentario y nutricional.
Los diferentes programas para erradicar la desnutrici6n son complementarios. Los
distintos instrumentos del Programe. Alimentario permiten melorar en t6rminos generales
las condiclones alimentaras, nutricionales y socioecon6micas de la poblaci6n pobre y,
por ende, de la poblaci6n vulnerable -1a cual constituye un subconjunto de la pobre-. Por
su parte, la Secretar(a de Salud, mediante el Programs de Nutrici6n y Salud, imparte
asistencia alimentaria y orientaci6n nutricional a la poblaci6n vulnerable, utilizando para
ello Is infraestructura de servicios de salud. Los complementos atimenUicios distribu(dos
mediante este programa se limitan a aqu6llos que provienen de donaciones
internacionales. Por su parte el programa de Alimentaci6n, Nutrioi6n y Salud,
actualmente -como ya se indicG- en Ia fase preliminar de la aplicac!6n de un proyecto
pilotot, se distingue del anterior por el hecho de que el componente alimentario se
financia con recursos fiscales, que podrian ser parcialmente complementados con
cr6dito externo. Para efectos de esta carta, el conjunto de programas para mejorar la
alimentaci6n y erradicar la desnutrici6n -inclufdo el Programa Afimenterio en los terminos
definidos con anterioridad- se denominara Programa Nutricional y Alimentario.
Cm



- 60 -                           Annex 3
Page 13 of 35
SCCZTARtA Ot PROGRO 4ACION
Y pRCSUPUfSTO
Es conveniente distinguir los subsidios al consumo de Is polfica de loclos y fomento a
la producci6n agropecuaria, con el prop6sito de lograr una mayor daridad program4tica
y presupuestal en Ia poiftira de subsidios de: Gobiemo de M6xico. Esta distincbn
tambi6n es ilportanto para salvaguardar el apoyo de consumo dirigido a los grupos
vulnerables. En consecuencia, los subsidlos y spoyos otorgados a la producci6n
agropecuaria serhin contablemente lndependientes de los otorgados dentro del
Programa Nutricional y Alimentario.
En las areas urbanas, el Goblerno de MkxIco comnensari a las famflias pobres (definidas
Como Ia poblaci6n objetivo del Programa de Tortivales), por la p6rdlda de poder
adquisitivo que resulte de los efectos sobre los precios al consimidor a causs de Ia
protecci6n otorgada a los productores agrfoolas de productos alimenticios. El
instrumento para esta compensacl6n sera el Programa de Tortivales u otro programs de
subsidio dirigido adecuadamente dise'iedo.
En las zonas rurales, Dicconsa continuar6 utilizando sus programas de subsidlo el ma4
y a la harina de mafz pars atenuar el impacto de to polkica do apoyo a los productores
sobre los consumidores rurales. Sin embargo, en la mriedida en que se decidlora
extender la cobertura del Programa de Alimentaci6n, Nutrici6n y Salud, en las zonas en
que se ampriar6 dicha cobertura, este programa podrfa desplazar a los programas de
subsidlos al mafz y a ls herinn de ma(z; lo anterior, sujeto a lo seAalado en el punto 10..
Dentro de este marco, y en ejecuci6n del Programa Nacional de Alimentaci6n 199D-
1994, publicado en el Mlario Oficial de la Federac6n el 23 de a%osto de 1990, el
Programs Nutricional y Alimentario para el periodo 1992-1994 incluina los lineamientos
siguientes:
1.   El Gobiemo de Mkxico considera que el Programs Nutricional y Alimentario es un
instrumento importante para aliviar la pobreza y la desnutrici6n en las areas
rurales y urbanas.
2.   El Programa Nutricional y Alimentario deberd ser congruente con ls reaUizaci6n de
otros programes prioritrios del Gobierno y con el equilibrio de las finaras
pbblices.
3.   Dentro del Programa Alimentario, ser necesario procurar que en eo medio urbano
C i"^       Ia poblacl6n vulnerable quede debidamente inclufda dentro de los padrones de
beneficiarios, en el supuesto de quo por falts de informaci6n o por otras causas
no estuviera ya inclurda. Seri necesaria la participaci6n del Sistema de Salud pam
quo las consuftas mddicas de la poblaci6n vulnerable sirvan como un filtro quo
permita detectar ei dicha poblaci6n esti debidamente lnclufda en los padrones de
beneficiarios, conforme ai mecanismo que se ecuerde con Conasupo.



- 61 -
Annex 3
*jI1DS.~                                                           Page 14 of 35
SCCCT^RIA DE PROOPAMACION
Y PRCSUPUCSTO
4.   La Secretarfa de Salud es responsable directa de la ejecuci6n del proyecto ploto
para el Programs de Alimentcidn, Nutrici6n y Salud, y de su posible amplial6n.
5.   Los resultsdos del proyecto piloto quo se reallza sctualmente permltir6n contar
con un dlagn6stico preliminar de la capacidad operativa actual del sistema de
salud en ia ejecuci6n del Programs de Alimentaci6n, Nutrici6n y Salud.
6.   En el corto plazo, se dar prioridad al disefo y ejecuci6n del Programa de
,immentaci6n, Nutrlci6n y Salud en el medio rural. Al mismo tiempo se continuar6
mojorando 18 aplicaco6n del Programa Alimentario, tratando de alcanzsr mejores
resultados en la relacd6n costo-beneficio de dicho programa. Tambi4n ser6
necesarlo buscar que los beneficios alcancen prioritariamente a Is poblaci6n
vulnerable, ssf como alcanzar un razonable equilibrio en Ia distrlbucl6n de los
beneficios entre el campo y las cludades.
7.   En tdrminos generales, las pruebas de Tngreso servirAn pars identificar a los
benseflarlos del Programa de Allmentaci6n, Nutrici6n y Salud y del Programs
Nutricional s6to en las zonas urbanas.
8.   La infraestructura de Conasupo y de sus filiales serviri Como medio pnimsrio pare
proveer y distribuir los alimentos relacionados con el Programa de Aiimentacl6n,
Nutrici6n y Salud y con el Programs Alimentarlo, cuando se trate de zonas en las
aue no haya otros meciios mejores de distribuci6n. No obstsnte, en el caso del
rogramwa do Alimentacn, Nutici6n y Salud, las proplas organizaciones sociales
o municiptos reaIizarFn Is distribucKn y provisi6n seocundaiia o final, cuando en
esa comunidad la Conasupo no tenfa rnfaestructura o eSta no sea la spropiada.
9.   De acuerdo con la capacidad de ejecuci6n de las distintas instftuclones
involuc.adas, y los resultados de los sistemas de evaluaci6n y segulimento
descritos en el punto siguiente, el Gobierno hari las previsiones presupuestarias
necesarias pars continuar con la aplicaci6n de los progrsmas.
10. Pars el seguimiento, supervisl6n y evaluaci6n del proyecto photo, as[ como del
Programa Nutriclonal y Alimentario en t6rminos generales, se dlseflar6 y ejecutar6
un programs quo estara bajo la coordinscl8f y responsabilidad de la Secretarba
de ?rogramaclbn y Presupuesto. Los resultados del programa de evaluaci6n_y
seguimonto determinarfin el futuro del Programa Nuticonal y Alimentarlo. En
conceto:



- 62 -                                 oo.
Page 15 of 35
SCPRTRt^A OE PROORAMACION
Y PRESUPUESTO
a)   Si or proyecto pi{oto se evalua como ex)toso, so expandirfa tan rbpido como
lo permitiera It capacidad de ejecuci6n del sistema de salud, tomando en
consideraci6n las medidas que pudieran tomerse para aumentar es8
capacidad.
b)   Si 01 proyecto pioto alara paf raznes administrativas y deficiencias en su
ajecun, seria redIsefdo e induido en el programa de acci6n de
m-iediano plzo -uya elaboracl6n coordlnar6 ia SPP- para ser ejecutado
por un afo adiclanal.
C)   Si el proyecto piloto fracasa en alcanzar sus objetivos nutrickonales, serfs
abandonado.
d)   Los resutacdos de la evaluaci6n del Programa Nutricional y Alimentarbo
servirfan de base para ajustar sus corrponentes a los lineamientos del
programa de mediano plazo (1992-94). El par&metro para evaluar todos los
pro ramas, salvo of de Tortivales. ser6 su beneficio nuticlonal sobre las
oblacione s objetivo. El programa de Tortivales ser6 evaluado en cuanto a
u eficacia y ociena para apoyar el consumo de alimentos de su
pablacl6n objotivo.
e)   Los resuftados de las evaluaciones tambi6n so utilizartan para reasignar
recursos entre los distintos componentes del Programa Nutricional y
Alimentario.
11.  La Secretarat  de Programaci6n y Presupuesto se encargarA de que exista la
capacidad anaifica necesaria para la instrumentaci6n del SES.
12.  Los planes do acci6n del Programa Nutricional y Alimentario IncluirFn bas
propuestas de recursos presupuestales para su instrumentaci6n en 1893 y 1994.
Ate ntamente
Ernesto ZeIo Ponce de Le6n



- 63-                              AnnRex3
Page 16 of 35
^>,W,k                                    8ECRZTARIA  DE  HACIENDA  Y  CRZDITO
<|;s#-                        ~~~~~~~puBLICO.
63CRzTARIA DZ AGRICULTUA Y  CURSOS
HIDRAULICO0
Oflcie N9.  545
m6xico, D.P., 29 de Mayo de 1991.
5M. SIARB COuauz.
Presidents del Banco Mundlal.
6180 B. Strest. W.N.
Washington D.C., U.S.A.
como on de nu conocLmientoe, to sconomia mexicans ha experS.mentado una profunda
ttgnsforMaci6z, cuyas csracteristLcas sobresaUlentes sont abatimiento y control
de la inflacL6n, saneamilnto de lan finanzas pdblicas, redimensionamilnto del
sector pftbi;o, renegociacidn de la deuds externa, apertura camercaal para la
mayoria de productoo eetableci1ndo un arancl* m&ximo de 200, suatitucifn
progreeiva do los pormisos provios para importacifn por aranceles, a*L come
eliminacitn de lo  subsidios gonerales.
Actualsunto, el conjunto de politicas macroecon6micau  y de cambic extruotural
aplicadas por el Gobierno Mexicano forman le base pars un entorno *conomico &as
adecuado par& el dcearroll0 del sector agropecua4ro.
Dentro de ia actual polItica pars 1as odernizacifn del canmpo s han estabiocido
como cbjetivos fundasmntales aumentar la produccoin y la productJ.vidad del
sector, ispular el desarrollo do egquemas
propicios pars la inverzi6n, ad como elevar el bienentar de Ion preductores,
fundamentalmente, de Ian sector*s de balos lngresos.
La politica para el sector agropecuario contompla un camb0i fundamental an *1
papal quo desempefta e1 sector pfiblico tanto en ls planeacitn, coe en los
ecaaniamo   de regulaci.n  de los mwrcadoe  agropecuario. Actualmonte.  la
estrategia. consists en promover uns mayor participaci6n de lon sectores privado
y social, incluyendo a lae comunidades y asociaciones de productores ruralee.
La estrategia del Gebierno Kexicano par o-l sector agropecuario aonaiotir& on
apoyar al proosso de camblo ostructural, medianto las *lgulentoe  accton,s:
reorentaci6n  del  gasto  pibllco  hacJa' la  rehabilittcifn  y  creacibn de
Lafraestructura; eliminacifn de las distorsjones y rigldeces institucionalos quo
frenan la capacidad productiva del campol reducclon y raciona1izacifn do loe



- 64 -                       Page 17 of 35
subsLdi0o dentro del marco de un cwez*rlo lnternacional sumamentO diCtarsionaddo
creaci6n y fomento de ouevos esquema. de producci6i y comorcilasal.tGn on el
contexto de una economa abiorta; establecLmiento de un ambiente propiolo para
qoe fluyan mayores inversiones; vLnculaciGn efectiva entre el decarroUll
tecno16gico y el productor, por medLo de esquemas fotogrados de exteneionLmoi
desaxrollo de un sLatema de informaci6n estadistica, financiera y do mercados quo
brlnGd la informacl6n adecuada para qu lo i productores tomn decl-lones GptLmas
y oportunas en .* asignaci6n de recuruec.
Para lograr estoe prop6sitos, a la fecha se han aplicado una *erle de medLdas,
sin precedente a nLvel LnternacLonal, orientadas a el.minar 1 r.glamentacion
excesiva an la produccln y comercializacifn de la mayoria d  lo  productos
agrtcolas, lUberalizar el comercLo exterior (a pesar de enfrentar un ambiente
internacLonal caraaterizado por un alto nivel de proteccifn y do subaidios
gubernamentalee a lo productos agropecuarLos por parte de la mayoria de log
pa3seo).    Asim2mo,  se  ha  disminuido  ouotancialmente  la  Intervencifn
gubernamental en l. fltjacin de precios al productor y al ponsuildor de produotor
agropecuarion. Be continua con ol procomo de desincorporacifn do ompresa.
paraietatales y la elimLnacifn de lou subeldios ge3ralLsadoe a 1o0  productos
aiimenticios, oustltuyAndose Aston por apoyos seleotivou dl1:igl4fo a los grupos
sarginados.
Entrc las prinaipalee acciones adoptadas por 1B administraci6n que buscan
incrementar la productividad y la eficlencia del sector agropecuarto doetacant
1.-  gxclusl6n del  oetem& de  "Precios de GarantLam de loe  siguientes
productost arros, trigo, eorgo, cebada, soya, senmilla de algod6n, cArtamo,
girasol, copra y ajonjolt. zNto implica quo Ica precio se fti3an por Ion
condictones prevaleclentes en .1 wercado y quo e1 Istado se retlro de la
comercializact6n de Ioe mismlo.
2.-   I1uinnaci6n de lo& poruisoe previos para la itportacifn do carn de ganado
bovine y poreino, arroz, sargo, avena, soya, oleaginosas y de grn parte
de loo insumos agricolas (semllas y maquinaria agrScola nueva).
3..  glimi.nacin de loo permisce de exportacifn, entre otros, Fara eane,
ganado en pie, caft y tabaco.
4.- Abolicifn de Ian restrLeciones a la entrada en la lndustria moat-tortilla.



s   vc                             - 65 -                                  Annex 3
Page 18 of 35
S.- "Supreeifn de lam prActicas reatrictivas a la exportacifn quo garantisaban
poder monopfUico a ciertae asociaciones de productores.
6.-.  En el cgsO del subsector asucarero, a travIs de un proceso de conoertacifn
diflcil y COmplejo, an manes de un sio se ha realixado un *sfuerso
mayEoculo por parte de las autoridade. u.xicana. par* ef icientar a la
industria y liberalizar el neroado.  Se han logrado cambioo *ostantivoo
comos la supresifn del impuesto de venta del dule;t la .lim.naeoin del
monopolio de AZUCAR, S.A. y prfcticamente el rotiro de la emprona de la
compra y distribuci6n de aszcar, fomentando *1 establecimiento de canals
d* comercialitacitn privados; deamantelacift del sietema de proc.pa
dlferoncialoal liberalizac,in de la importacifn de ardoar utilistndoos un
e*quema de aranceles variables, asi 0o00 la conclusitn del proceso de
privatisacifn del total de Ioc ingenios azucareroe.
Otro cambio de gran trascendencia fue la modificael6u del Decreto CaAcro,
quo racionaliza las relaciones comarciales ntre cafteros a industrial.s y
sotablece 108 inoentivos quo estimulan una mayor oficLenclo en la
producciln de aa0car. Dentro de los camblo. principales plasiadoa an
este Decreto se oncuentra Ia uodificacitn del sistema do pago. por azdear
rocuperable; lo eliminacifn de preotaciones 1 ptroduetor quo inducian *1
minifundiamo,  as como la modernizacifn de lan relaoiones laborales,
rwaviondo lc obot6culos quo 8* oponian &I desarrello de nuevsc fuente.
do ampleo en las tonas cafleor  y diflcultaeba  la mayor oficiencia do la
industria.
Otras acciones comprenden la liquidacifn o deeincorporacoin de 17 empreoas
paraestatales del sector agropecuarios Tabacoo Mexicanos, Coomlsn
Maclonal d* Fruticultura,  Productoc Forestaloc Kesxoano, alUmentoc
Balanceados de MExico, Centro Nactonal de Znvsetigscion-o  Agrarlae,
Fildecomiuo para el Soutenlmiento del Patrimonio Indigena del Valle del
Nexquital y  la  Duasteca  BdGalguense, Aceitora  Gusrreto,  2mpulsora
Guerrexonse del Cocotero, Complejo Frutlcola Industrial de la Cuenca del
papsloapan, Decarrollo industrlal del Caf& Mexicano, Znduatrias d*
Agricultores, Haderas Industrlaliadas de Quintana Roo, Kutrimex,
Gervlcios Ijidales, Servicios Forestales, Triplay de Palenque, Pldeieomiso
pa"a  Apoyo  a)  Instituto mactonal do  Investigaciones Iroutaleu  y
agropecuarlso.



,41000S^, A- 66 -                                                           anelx  3
-'N'                                                              Page 19 of 35
- eestructuracL6n de OONASUPO incluyendo: la reduccit6n de la* comprae do
granos y oleaginoas que estaban dentro del siatemt   de OPrecLes d
Garantla'l desincerporacift de ICONSAI aprolbaci62  de la desincorporaoift
de las plantas industrales de LICONSA; apertura al uto por parto del
sector privado y socal de las unldades do DQRUCONSA; vent& yto
reubicacidn de lao tiandas urbanas de DrCCONSA, &at com  oel mejorlst.nto
de oue servicios on zona0 ruralas. Adicionalsente, so inici6 el proesso de
desincorporaci6n do una parte de lan instalaciones de A2DSA.
Racionalizacti6r de loe subsidios gubernamentales otorgadoe modianto loe
cz6ditoo y las cuotas por consumo de aqua y electricidad par. riego
agricola. Asimismo, ao  ha reformado el siteima de .aeguramiento de
cultivoo, a fin de lograr una mayor eficiencia en este servicLo.
Cabe destacar quo gran parte de las medidas adoptadas han implicado un cambio en
el pap.l del Katado en el sector agropecuario, especialmento en lo& proceeos de
comercializaci6n. 21 retiro del gobierno en la comerciali:acidn directa, ha
creado un vacia pot la falta de agentes econ6micos de intermediacifn y demanda
la atencin y pereeverancia gubernamental pars In formacidr do eutos msrcados.
A pesar de loo problemas de la tranoici6n, el Gobierno )exicano set& co=prometido
en consolidar 1Ba odernizacldn del sector agropecuaric para lograr un mayor
bienestar rursl. Es aaL que pretend. continuaLr con la aplicscidf de politicas quo
fortalozean laa medidas adoptadas duranto lee 6ltimos aAoc.
La estrategia que as aplica ccopronde lineamiento. y accionos respecto a oomerclo
exterior, precios, insumoo, invoetigacift e inverui6n pdblica.
En materia de comercio exterior, con el objetivo de integrar la oconomLa nacional
a los fluloa nternacionales de comercio, la politica gubernamental tiene coma
prop6aitos continuar ol apoyo A la exportaoi6n de productoe agropecuarios y
foresta2es, a trav6s de la elim.nac.dn de regulaciones que l.mitaban el comercio
y la promoci6n e identificacidn de nuevov mercadom y alternativag financisraa.
Auimismo, se continfia con el proceso de liberalizaci6n, an congruencia con IaO
negociaciones quo realiza '6xico en el imbito multilIteral y bilateral en out&
materia.



<5tgiWO5S,,$                                                                Annex 3
- 67 -                             Page 20 of 35
Referente a la polS.tica de precios de los productos agropecuariov, la intensi6f
ec continuar con la reduccon de 1 intervenci6n gubernamental, con el objeto de
qua dichoa preclos sean dteterminados con base on las condiciones del mercado, en
Una economic ablirta. Actualmente, ao han exoluLdo del sistema de "Preolo. de
Garantla" a la mayorta de los producto, quaedando flniecwnto el malz y el frijol.
Para le productos que dejaron de pertenecor a dicho sistoma, sus precios
reflejan loe  precios internacionales respectivoe, mis el nivel de proteocifn
arancelaria cerrespondiente. En alguno caoos eapeciales, para facilitar la
comercislizacofn de lo  productosI as ha llevado a cabo un proceso de
concertaci6n an el quo concurren productorel y consumidores establecifndoee,
taembln en auto caso, niveles de precios ligados a loa meroados nternacionale5.
-1 objetivo de eats euquema so orienta a facilitar la tranxicifn on ol proceao
4. liberecifn de loe pnrcioa, en virtud de quo no exitSeun los mercdoes
correspondientes.
sin embargo, par las caracterioticas y l.a situacin estrat&gica de productos y
meradoos del malt, trigo,  azcear y cebada dotos tendr&n un tratamnieto
diferencialt
I    In el caseo del Mal& se propone establecer una f6rula de ciloulo do log
incrementos On su precio, de tal manor& quo dicho prOcLo Medido en d6lares
so mantonga constante on trMiAnom reales, otorgando una mayor certidumbre
a los productoreo.
II    Iespecto el az6car, so considera necesario en eStOO momentos buscar una
Capitalizaci6n de 1i  industria azucareta.  Para tal efecto, oo perov
gantener  un  precio  real  constanto  en  d6lares  on  f crma temporal.
Asimismo, la intanci6n del  obierno  xeicano eer1a leger Oft un plszo
razon&ble a un nlvel de proteccLfn del 20 por cLento, cOMpatible con la
politica general de ceinrcio exterior de nueotro pals.
,Sn embargo, debe reconocerse quo el mercado Lnternecional del dulce osta
caraeterizado por une cIte volatilidad en Ou precW, ocasionada por law
graves distorieoneg derivadas de la intervencion de distintoG pals.e qus
subsidian fucrtemente sue axportacionos y protegen sue mereadoe interno.s
ltuaciOn quo  dificulta la coneecusi6f do la mete antes sefial4da.
En tol virtud, pare conter con los slementot .nalitltoo para disminuir la
protecci6n otorgada, as realizarri un estudlo pare evaluar y cuantificar
lee necefidadee de capitallzacift de la industria azucarerg  y, con base en



40VAV                                                   A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nnex I
4v,                       - 6  -Page 21 of 35
-68-
dicho diagnostLco, definir e1 plaro y la gradualidad con quo wore aplicado
uan sitema do etabllizaci6n de precioo dentro do u'a band& quo proteja
tanto al productor cooo al consumidor do lam variacones  eoxtreme del
procLo.
XL?  En el caBo del trig*, debido a au impertania on lam negociacion dol
Wratedo L.bro Comrcio con lao Zotados Unldos y Canadt, el Gobierno tiene
ls intencLtn de entener el nivel actual de prat.ccL6n otorgado a outs,
product*.
IV   Respect* a cebada, pars el ciclo 0-1/1991-1992  s mantondr&  au nivel,
actual. Pare el pr6ximo s*no as proev otorgar un lncr.eanto no mayor al St,
en t&z=LIon no io alos.
Por otra parts, as Vreyv  favorecer una mayor artloulaci6n entre la lnvestigacia
y l08 servicios de extenmi6n, &al como l mejoramiento io la clidad de lon
serviciso fitosanitarLos y soosanitarios, lon cuales son una pieza angular para
lograz  una myor lntegracifn  internaclonal. Actualmuto so encuentran en
prepaxacidn ostudios ospeclficos quo aportarin lon slemntos ncosartos pars. *1
mejoramiento d estos gervlcloo.
Por otra parts, we prev6 la roalixacsiG  do an *studLo sabre el cistert do
planificaci6n agropecuarla on MAxico, a fin de identificar y oli"ma  las
distoraLones goneradas par dichoo aistma.
La estrategta de mdernitssciOn del oapo contampla, coam  una  do sue tareas
f9ndamtlea, lograr quo Ion productores tengan accsso a Lnsumos de calidad a
proclos adecuado . Pars ello, so alrnAne  loo pormios pevios a la importacid
de insuroC, en log casos y on Joe tiempos quo resulten congzuentos con la
polStica gewral de co.zarcio exterior.
particulamonte, on atetria do aemIlas el Gaobierno Federal docidfi revisar la
logLulacJn vigento y pr6xl_rnntO as presentarA una  iniciativa de Lay sobre
produccifn, protocctdn, CertifiLacin y Cowereto do semllla, a la considoracLG
del B. Coneso do 3. Uni6n. esta propuesta conloeva la olimLnaci6n do la
reglamsntaoi6n excosiva y prmovers la participacidn del soctor privado S &at Como
la libro competencia con PRONASS.



Anm" .
-69-                                Page 22 of 33
Adiclonalente, so coneLdoea necesomia *rear an  lJstm  de Lafomacia y
prqmocGn integral do los m:rcadoa agropecuarlos, qgu pes Lta a L*s produote.s
tosar sun decisones en forms Optim    lnducit una divetaLfslo iafln of aieto de
au produocifn.
RAepecto a la lnftrastrcutura para la produccJ.6n. e1 gasio pfibco I.palsavA
aquellas obras quo aumantn la productividad, promolvindo la partJ*Lpacln da
todos lon sectores  n la ampllacifn y rehoablLtac56n de In lnfraosttuatua.
Atmmmo, soe contempla is facLlitacIGn y creacftn de condLonoass propLelaw pa
la lnvarai6n pars tucrmAtar la aapsctdad de transporte y an_lto.
La traunformacifn dol sector rqprosenta un veto difLct1,  spsoialunteo pe  La
gran cntiad de dlltopatdonse exlstente. an 0l Jilto lnteraaconal, situactL
quo ocasiona problemas m=As al  deo l* aspectos ocoufatLoo. sna ,mbtq@   a*n1o
Goberno IWLecano .stos seguros quo c         on la onsolLdaaJAn d  los avanss
wrelisadoe por medio de la conecucift de Ian oo1iones futurss, IpSented....
e1 an0xo, aumnetacr el bienestar *n *1 sector agropecuarlo y on asetro PAID on
as coawunto.
slfRAGCO IFlOWvo. NO MILXO .
TRO  SPow                                   m      - a-



~~~~~1_   w_ _DE  an
Mur              malw wm"                               m w         s             __          _ ___                       sinmma,
1. LIZB~S                                                                                                               AL
El NW"s de pufttie   m        In  goea                               Prmmfw evidlmf. de 4e el wa de
consistere cm toe d    vjeto dd prop o,                              pltift "m, ca   es a
cm Los objethws dtt p-m
SL fuAntar Isi *A.M9
AL tatuw too *MOM,
Commuss   L      n efrms    I0  politics
6           hatest.         t.   este                                xeterLan refo    de potitCe
to,                                                             .plicas Sito g pemat-clin del
giroctwi, y datt      a  at ent.
it. creefttm de PrMmoclGL
hsLlCa. .  1. Rufc  to hintawiudi
directo do las umiada de
PrdAi&_   Baja two    I       V  de pnAuta
di creclfnote.  ue  martc.tm.
lnficiest.  de  to
re      r          v  2. oJorw  to aluwdldn
esteieto   4t to  delsl pte  pMIl  en to
proitvidid.            grladtw.                                                                                                                              o
3. ERr to &tWwaWud
dot  Bter    an  tas
dIsiml  di praAeidm de
L. Prudes. Ptice   1.                            1. Wedo    de pI9WLtStt- h-dMerc   di ,                PrwNv*. jdeBe ern  di P*tes.
Rem(mlgifs di      a.  itbwatizcidn   di  s. Precfo.                                   a. Poliic. d woei w  ae f. poitica d ,t          v cacia.l
Nercado.           pucies *1 cmdwur p atd                                                   _ner
pruxtau de les putes  (1) Et sitemo de precie de saretto  ht side                               (1) Efecutwr e   pta  de  atidn
<PrActis e I1mms)   arqie8aie  y  de  s a       emidnab pmras trigo, swmp, soya  rraz*  (1) Etiwar Los persin  sarded., comisteste u
dert_ khitriotes.           ,d. smttla di steodBn. cdrth. gr1i.  pwr  Ioptactd  di cef
1.   camtio       y                             capes y aeM. ftfzy  frilolt eo,ta  n bujo  we wd. nt.e  del 30 de  a) Apitrar a wines qae etlhhme et
ssluefdn de recrs   b.   ft*   da  de  les dl  I tmim de precas de watt:.            t      ep-liawe de 199.          rezpo tl diOWAW  eto iqiaraw is
distorsionados   ou  sAnids uanuratl  a too                                                                           de ledie an pto, v   asigw   le
fro*Xcidn y csmu.   plciso.                                                                                           pnuo. di impsitdn  *sr. huse
trsrPrent,, cpFetst w t     ofielete.
2. Grwde  aiudi
gauiles      n 1                                                                                                      bP Eltlbm   todis lts perisa  Us
pstias *t psteri tiUc                                                                                                             di ltee lfqsidi y an
s canzsn   Modesto,                                                                                                   pol;vo
resuttabs.       ,_            .     _.      _  __ -_                                          _  _ -  _  -  _.   _  _ ____- ____. __. ___________
0
* Ee redieci&t siact. Us les asasUsm di politics a. se nmetro at b.a diammt. lebcates deL grstin. 



_ Oinr _ 
OIIUZM                          amnJi1 f                         Gp1                   2
c.  Qums1n   Es          a ) Eit raidwlE  prsa at p odeoto pwa @1  t2)   &Map Deco q3   c) Paritlr _  et praefo _1 _ I_ _
barrrs  q9  rquArn st  .61w6 de v ccas. so dam Wron pur los  modifie e1t                    actud   an EstalmE  par *I mdrc.
.acad-. 7 ptWoctn de to  prteies ltntcl.tn                            p1s gi po de cafb.
caat_af a  dat  seor                                                                              di  ft  twetwtr  Ie  preMct&a
prf_..                     (<) Los pras  pwa at csf  tostt  r                                      nos1mi psWe trip, pw   i-w  det
wtdAe hen sidd flexiblinla.                                            niwel exhesht et la    s p. de 1W9?.
(4) Los prdes dei eav  plvy. sp   p                                    e)  ftleiftier  to   preclos  de
- deteamin  lihw.te por et marc.                                        wiletes, puta,  eites smesiiblet.
ci germ. huew, cmwn de rfs y
(SS Los pwcS    i        dlawiwaa do                                   Po aicitbs  dtefasr.
ezr 1isk s*I& et hlamic.; ft hb aldeledo
- preao pwa to slow coll Id.                                           f) No  1nasrmwer  et prto  de
gamasto e t asx, on %a nivet par
(6) Los tnmle de rferawEe dot estuSa.                                  esfe de so vuAr eeiwivAeta reed 
pmu  dadier iun ddatm1 gpso ekIinlm    et -dets puq et dci.. O- IW-9
mm2po&iot     masO Ient aisaqrto  Pd < s
leade en po1w, r  siprd to  perdmu       de                            *) ft fn_a euetaal prech del azsr
iwrtshdi  _obre uis bus tra        _,srnt..                            p   aeam  des au walor aqAadente
caoupeitiw  p eficemnt.                                                 real en deldr  del I'm d  enao de
(9  Le t&iMnow des rafem  la dd estuaHo
par   deltnir  la politice de  rich.s Y                                Ii) u Iwurmter d ptcho rimt de
aci,e d1 frf lot tcmtibto.                                              to Wm    par et periods vjuwia/-
3,10t10do, sabre .1 nad Ed    40,
(10) TEroaulri dm "frefeaidels*   estsado Wsr                          gaes par ton p flier of prad
Esilnir t* poftics dot sacer.                                            _tIhub po  et jerhi*d tIfdirej-
311mr19  as n dlel q        eacid
los 714.00 paw por twelejt.
3 Of sct sr too s.u1t  de estudio
_re .1        v.rp, cat bAss en discd
disewift, oeprbr is pLftics par et
j)    d   et pdtL  do accin gio
eulte dot estujia udar ot meurcd
del frijl.
6o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
ta
0



b  - - mm
0I te_s, w     emp1-cif 4bak 0  Eit                  _4 topo    a
b_                                 _= A
wr,sibew, offms(, uuutn   W wutsls1 n       eui        s1aft
(aumpt.  dirdtin r' de eiilt* 4* aodes),  .mna mgi.din anIbro v
k1m slim  lsWiII.                         sIguo wm p. die, jCis.
CO pmtasl*a pte mab  is m   pndo           4  3a . ImF*sw too lies   de~
,pm                                                 * _,,  aebsim,
- . q  Amufu   a r*eSh  Inbd diafwremi.    op S    a(g6
I~ ~      ~                             _,    a,dtnmt  fbf       ad    f  mtel  IN
o twifse a   tIn  pmuusii    ai imI.   tds.w v kam.
tm. V Io WM           di did*. tulfa p.m
s_t-ed    de IM
(4) Owipreu  is tm   ~cuis, res.tuitIs a
Is a urt.dI a fi fdetnn  vtduis.
(5) Lo  pariu di lqwtsin pw. aa_w
hIo  afdi e(ain_n. La p tncsl&I   at  emn
csmuds popr smi* de    m  sit             d
recluwd mwde.I 
(60 El ImiIdn dB Los psaim  pwt I-a to
rin, ._a   *lool ss      mit"s  de
c. lmddim  s  nm_.
Motk.i.  de ts rerbet_  q   iqw&m
to I ,   ISO a  a_to____ t  s-tortill. l-a,                             _
L   getcak dB  2. Owcmdp dl IfWAIM,                                      .         t i ltwmm
s. tibmUersar tos, pmu.   a. Priqdu X Peftfhsa C.mwci                                           a. twicI etwic Ci tt      si.
v .d tin      i, r glimlur
Igo  swulnW     l an Cs.  (1) "t}in id t  tsfeeml  de Iaportuslkn                               (1) Pam  pesticids.: mltm   It
fte    de   fiteji,  pen  qaolwi sploods mm.                                                     llIfttes qm vuomts qm  lot pre1-
#mitsU,    Wh   V                                                                                so  dsterWlain  Lirmte  po   1.
pustaidei                (2) LOB preci n do trecto  Sam &Ktumlan                                mieb.
1bmS por et mmi
b. bih_ r p PO   o        IN in vigel
i"  I    reehulter pur 
pti_e*h   ,   prI   I2eci
_wustn  p  sli inm,                                                                                                                  o
ear-,.  _i .uis                                                                                               . d
pcotcc.hdg  inaemitaeia.                                                                                                             0
fit.seuhtarf.*
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   i w5l eS k y     M w e" i.- I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _   _  _ _  _  _  _  _      _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _



- mm
loau alE lill=                                                               Pis. 
inro ki       mmuii _  . c                          i       u  -                 -- rww                           ame inm -N- a1
b..__
(1) Pu. p_eatkWb aItm* OEr. $a                                    () kardlr _as PtCC  4I E ts Pwe
tuwa *  rfe,s   del  mils   re                                    imt,ta_r lfd r          low  do
di_uattsar es in int, cv&m_ dt -w                                  ias  _odm  lb da   Ad   _t
l.ot   m fultiwsil vlgmwt v alqmtfIw                              Cb) P    *r   vustal1 v Ccc =it
km W*ieatim FM; (a) p            i  to                            4k lljPiwi rtic1w  Lastegi
oetuam1s   eno*e  productwe    y                                 v rawdnm  a"  rs  om     e in
dts.iukulom; eas   *astiAag   mus  y                              gStifitb  UKate  do aI6ld v i
,It  I mre  of1m - atrtr        tm par                              auclis"  e    m Pw  *Wttmie  ft$tmdwmIsiu
li v    itarLe; v (e) I r  r_      r                              e      l        y   t
is calfisia    VW. l,                                                                * _p
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2) Pare" amb   .11_t:  Last idet
(2 Pae patmi  WqMd y a"lz W*ml:                                   mICMrIIIma  qa. iqilsn at mete
a.unt  an t1  tisrtm  dk  sfue  kt                                pril    t1q  cm UinIE   et
intuit pwm  to)  astar ls   rth,adis                              m Ipsl' dip   SE                et
*Iugto zacfd    p uihaiuutas del *tIdn de          .A rmapi  prut lb pWr el OtW
proll"a    gtat Il     l nlid -Ilt; y   2                            t r mtdmle  at mIawiust.
atdsm  Wm Ipmas PM iN             r_ et                           we"t per pat. dot at priveam.
sistn y afqilf flw am prmad.Umdo.
d3o h  *t1f4kelCum           barr_d
a   ha is sea    tA  O_ l et bor aft tu
to 1toy4 d M kIUt  gm otd_  nottiSw
qn lqido   et  ter pil  _tir can
_NE, eat moplf ise de     ma  Rb I ot                                                                  t
- -111    pi=idmI  urn  Mt#. v lam
obt _ma .     de  prrlot vgtalper prt.
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _m .        t    ter  F   -iwis.                -     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ __sector_ _ _ _
0
o 
't' B



-74-
Annex3
Page 27 of 35
I
al
a
i~ i      14ijf j I jI  'A f         * j   !bE   
< a _ g "%4  J~         *        ei  45o   4Ki
1_ 11111it 
U -         - I   jB{~g}*: 



531SE 7m ZTIj3w*
AUID               MJETIWO IE PoL1ttCA                   ACCIE9 WfiALZS                           IfEcriviDe                       SE1a    RWD
F- IlJe   Pbl P e M     c- Ana mC. c                         e,
1. Fl Wm  pte Wsr  1. uijer   ta uprsIih  V  El nivet y i  arlefo dot pita  g*.ta                                               rcswiw evidnif de qua et ntel y
sduuidlar los pricins  eftelweacla   del   onto  paspatadi- y preai     at Cmwr, an                                            c       isidnh   *1   Sato wlcela
at p  Ator   agrsel    pate.en t IarlulAwa.   1991,  ao   camlatme   csi et  vwim                                              prmpatsb ypres  ctndo at Ca leow
y tas bhms ha sfde                                  m orcPieald,  y cm we aaicwin of iciantt                                    psra  IW.  s a eruitteo  an et
bqpaldctlo.             2. AUmtAr ta i tNoln  di tts recrs. a nivul Sector pWA  ci duo                                         propvm  mcr.emt  c- r ac   mm
p1tia en afrestructure.  fisat 191.                                                                   ftsi~Sn efdlctae de Law
2. El ba1o niwt de  ifnvesti*aciEne    v                                                                                       a fivte di   ert..
peat.   PON Io   et   exteashu  arcol.
inm9l6a wrtxlo,
prttailarte en
in$rapstructuro,
1nvestleact6n   y
cx tensl.cnft s ,
deterifr6 La
tafruastrectur y to
capactdd prchatlva
di   se  r.                      ._                            _  _     _  _   .    _      _
0.   ts       dwe       D. Weta OD Pr*x:ci&         0. awe Am Pradwcdn  to me,                    D. ft=s dr P JnadWi&  de ta  D. Wta de Pradt*u di ta
kJLWI                   IaJMt $.                                                                  =00.                          ma.
Isuerdm de Usa *m    de eel eeta  a 
StAWI    r   otteas   O_Saneiaw  et sistee.         esLuio  d.e  ktI  ficwidn  det  po n,   Efaettv1db                         Ejecu       tam sa cm   ecrdda  par
dipenimaclas fijan lot                              tfepticida y r  locieo qi  dn a to SM  y                                   elisha y dm*eler too pescea l
atas do p,ad        fac,                            ears aet tas   6ernowiates, et p_der b   1. Preseard  et eastue quo  repAdis i gm b1i tonas  didas.
aTd  ar criterlos                                  esld,er, cordiner y bacer cau*4r too  ldatifice  las  prem.   wtes.
e MasWitlencia re hoes  de prWad t6n.                                                              legldlaed*n   reulacim
reacinads cm  en                                                                                  gpou dan a ts SA   t otn
candicion-sc    de                                                                                ati-  g _ARantata
Uwcb   . Este sistm                                                                               et  podkr de est*Alcer,
ea   wr   funte  de                                                                               coordiosa    y   hacer
Gistarshi   en  ta                                                                                4Aigeterim  tes ate   de
as I gnsc i n   de                                                                                pieci&L
d,eaperdicljo   de
a ars   &   nite  de                                                                              Fe    Acrb s:
f e. y dislnwe La
atctotiv y k*ildad                                                                                2. Basad, on exte astufio,
e     aerlt  de  too                                                                              ats  dot 30 de aqleebre
t   iattaes.                                                                                      de 199. presmtar u  plan
de  cIldn sattasftrie se
etitine v diaatele tos
prame... y repastaimfa spa
:btfi    a aqatlir didc                                             Sb
__._,__                               .-                                                           ____________________________________________  ________________________,__________________________________
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   l
O ,



- m - -
.  rrwee~~~unm mi.                                                              _o , 
~~~~~~ -                                  -   .-        ~         -  -    -    -- ,-.-
Ill. edtk3           1. SuMs to lmiet ._ do  1.  amwl           Sin  kidI a eutlip                              1.pwmM    to   imtumb di to
llutJisL(a di wtctcln as Nc l e   mi-saectl_va                      v urwm  die pwrr VW nI                                    a y muin
ZaLhl*z.       on am dIm ptin.           ldptl I t1: ) di 013I dii "P                                        m so mm. on to         itch
2. bias? la of.aira  d    SO9 a 0.1c*1 d lO VW   9IW.                                       dot Visa om at ML
1. Peale #wkotm y  lto pn s di u*rlefft    . AmAft d s LIbilm    -  s  t  ast_h dot                              2.    * do      PLm$ de acctS
p o l t  i c *     d  e  sal  pri_ rla, per iuo  p'om  dw gtrici  y pl emtfmttsi   de                            omarnrn v Pr          IS psw 093
esuarolal tzecIEu  de   wri   *xpit.tsidn  sWfm  plain (Carts di Mtiftien).                                       1994.
c-brcdlbwFel" *  toa Caipt e ommatfr.
pailtkca de prause &I                         3.  efInledf d  st pdASefA t       pas
semsidar.            L Eitemr aetl t   d   eltr a de t    tp wsdi wtIcfd at
prsts at -1  e _  cm
2.  le  s   1i.s  at  1f8ntrusato   oft  4. ODfWmihn  d s               de slad cam
gl* tes at e _         ur, pas t rhtz.t t 41101*0,          d, t pruwrmn da mtrlcidr.
so tw _sm an to tdte    l fut   do inwu.. de  r atsL
coste'  fscal   p  alf* ia.
desperdice1s   de                              S. La VP  fue dhis         cm    aits
mari_s.              4. Prw*cen qics, a          I ssb de  (a) pupv   ta tIosde_ts
patitic  e    at           m ta    dot ps'pm do ind1u ptlow v
3. *Dud   a  Is   s    u         ldsl         a(b)   m t rs fl 1  to asiuletd  dik Us
*ubs *anc  0 t*os  pitftti  de praos at  prevsium  pnmpaeatds a Ims efecut
devisct1ons,  tos  e_hbmidr.                   dit pror_ma     *  wtrutcfd   v   *Umnttcfs v
substdles   stlates                           (Cii   t wim., &*Amw * _etigm   _ s
futrm cmtveftctl Pis                            PORM
en COW(Ir to nsa
y diwutrieiS.                *. Samadi es  to  trnu  de nerumls
pSrI et ddbse  de an sisetm de aatwidn y
4. La  prgrmas di                              w4rvlisf   de Wa px _w  de mt"c(in y
casntons    eotin                              dtlwtaefM  C(M; y Chb an pl e d.  ettfi
d I * I   I S d a s                           pam i'wtn.mtr dkd. staten.
principalont* a  um
,uims. ulatras que                            7. Aou*b en et Ipreum  par  mmm t_n
too ads P*me  vfn                             rmAttm   dot sistum   de  anmcki  r
en zom rwats.                                  lwrvIiAs   (ES)   pus       nts.  Lo
Iliai.n s _  ti   p   _mma   de I Iei es
p_Ads. (cato deifutltme.
IL Ba ee   ta el.uedn Wdt prtate
_tote de nutirci WA Siltaeb p sald.
0_
0
to 
0 



u        nm      I no a   uin a in,   inu. V a         w mimE              .
nJE-no~~ ~~~~~~~~ WeoLmm_
_.31         .      _WII -K0-                  h,.fAE A-SC-I'I___.._...._.SEC               .         .
"=n   '   - -w-                          --! -t-                  --I-                    -            L.
wcic3us   ISESAL  *iflIO  Z' luAU   35110AL  @rncyijo  Zn IRAE 351  AL  OI DAETRo  2' 1mU   bott Im 
SLUM I seIl-                                                                          __              -
V ER!         ZSIEUESW9S    p              2AUd                        24REa9            I             pam)721.5
__             p         __                          _m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p      cc    _cCO
1=1 ,T ____- --                                                          t .   1= L L L _ _
-   -               =~~~~~~~~~=Z=mm2w=  M=v%= ocm
bTrg                        P          Pp                P         P         L P      6        t0     C1cc(21    19.
T      I  -_______.__    .__._._..__                                           J_____
lwtiltt,"~ j  .  ,           .       .-_                                              19C-' C-!
pEmourdtrig    |J    L                 L        L        P         P        L         C    I   C   |C    j
-- -   !-- -                              -  -                                
A"Qz          I        I    Lx        L -L               L    | L           L        cC        C C_     tF I
H    Plst     IL L                     L        I        &          L                                I   I L      t _
4. 1r                               __rini__  __                                           II__
W ~ ~~   T !       ---| -|-  -|'                                               -  -|   *      L|*  
1nwzPaIw       I .  !L -                               LP           L        L        cc -IL                I    27_ 1 ___ |
I              I        IluKo  I                 1 6.                    1 L   I.     .       L L                 I ___L__
r.-=                     =                   =  -                                   = -     ---=--  f  -1   
6. Cdob               p        p                  ~~~ ~~~~IL                             S)  2_______4
-    - - - -l
S. Frijol  p  p   j PI0~~~~~dm  U   P      P1~~~    8(4)        6(4)     0(4)ol
I     I                           I                    2.55.107~~~~~~~~~~~~0,



Aninex 3
-78-                  Page 31 of 35
'IC~~~~~~~~~~ 



1110 umnm M  L aI  a ANXInD  viKF    im. i SE OEmi_s * tlU                                  i0 Wm 
_~-3
I                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VALM WLCAL
EUDos             IrW  cES -ac-                       E mrACtU  -IIc-                           ICID                     DE LA
P                .                                                                .                _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~El t99
ACCI^S   15OD AL   OUEtCIlO   p  mU            15130 At.  D1111    )0  Z6 IWM -   Su        _AI  DuiR O    2P TWOID     W Iiwss de
S;.ilade t                      zdn                         L                       L _                                 L         L _     _____
hpte de ALL  IL                                                         L __   I                                            [ _  _  F
__   .                                                                nLt1 _.  .;:& 2S 
En _ r_ _ __                                  LL            t    I     L       -      ,    L(               L =
FfIlro                                          L  L JLL               L          LET)          L._                     L_:__
W01*5:
1.- N Ieotar .1 palsr de  rstxla t del wf r etictt  i mior rel dt la  e an dMwst   pare et siteo 0-11IW-I9I.
2.- Lb iuwrr,to p1s6*, rerlmsl prs tris par .mI. de t  vt aMlate  ta d1 1              tW1Wl.
3.- Preioo a to pae taldn at 01reetorlo.    dir ld e t*rm  de r*krs  dat eatike  pam definlt to poiftica erciat y de precs..
*.- Ls prda. at cw=Mdmr atfn tiberaiss.
S.- ib irmommtar A. preclo uumiu  de to cdmb edwun    et perfod  IJ,mlot/19  a 31Iener.W/992, par ens    det nlwt de 6180 miL ptos por tatlei, y estsblecer et
prfos  mmnm  de to   d      e rd Wfa  1tff*srstt9f  a 3lImso/lM  en un nivel qp  m ame t In T  sit ps por tantlde.
6.- Etfutfar tes Ipstam de ptrtldn.
r.- Elidimr loe 1tasre d ampattacw.
*  -par eu epwtasi I* Fm toplWv- 5P   UPeuus; It - %Lbt de pmeU'.
f9 et Sg r u -   atuulfe;      O a -'.cwrte -; F - 1ft1 ibfl; L a O'LlbwatLidU   y C =ortrotlad.



ll _           t F    EL KM  E    O  ZIEATA tFqlM    V _
PA. 4
r                           V~~~~~~~~A" ILOSAL
rem_tm         ESwa          .       imIm      -n-                   WWuIES -ic-                              PUECLO                   OE LA
WWI  E     11.DII___I10_        _    _ ___   ___tlZ_                    _     __  PTA  0D     "_               Uall 
SWM    v4MOZ                        Iw     Vas_m                                 Z#EM                                   P-SM
l ._ . _  1  :-                                                                 .                              . S__".___.-    .r_ -     .E: -:  9_  
FltffA (1?.                      P            P                     L            L          L           L            L          L          ,,l
EIXuS                             L           t          2SL         L            L          L           L           L          L         M .36 
.wrAs  -       P            P          P(2>       L            L          L           L           L           L         1.O1t,9W 1
WTALU                 -           1.          U           P          L            t          L           C                                  5 t
uble-                       P                 -   . -P    .    L                  t          L                                  - f
1.                    _I I          _        -    '   _                                      -  . .                              -
C                     -           L4    L                 L    _.  L              L          I           L           L          L           1a.3m         o
lobte _=                          L            L          L          t            L          L                                   L
aw .
2.    C ma             ._        _  _ _                          ,__   _ _    ,__ _.__                           .__  _  _               _ _  _ _ _
1.CddeA                                       -          -                               -                                      -.
b_                       ~     ~     ~~~                           ~      ~~L  L  t  P  _    ,  C          CXS)       Ct5)       
r   feF5                 ~     ~     ~     ~    ~~L  L  L   p            P           PC                    C(S)       Cff)
AO T CI                      ___ _                      _       .
2. Czeo PM                        -                                               L -  -                         -              -
L~~~ H                                    3 -  P            P          PIL            _          . C            C(S  C_     S          7,46,5
3.                    -                       1.                     P            P          P           L                       L     ____t__._
o 
f6ft



_l         rm    U  uutFm Kn                          .tr                                                   DEL A
~~~~~~,. 5
_s E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PWCIOS _.N  
ENm Im
.-   .wKw  --                        .wvcu -in-Si I
am$  CUAQS At   DnMVM                      ESIMO A    DIAICTIRIIIt  2' T     EWAN ADL DICTIO   2l              mito lows de
' -. __I_11--1-l '          ---                       -                   -  -     I  -           -,        E-
1.  G                    _       L           I         I          L            L         L           L                     L
2. cw                            L           I         L          L            L    I     .        CM6)          f         f       2,Y,913,135
S.cn 1p                          L           L         L          L            L         L           L           L         L
4. Cefs We                       L           L        L          L           117)        L          L           i.         L
Pie d oel. C._
S. CUM dC*                       L           L         I          L            L                 .  I            L         L
6. MAI" WU                .      P           p         P          L            L          L          L           L         L      ___________
T. cM 1 dB                       P           p         p          L            L                     L           L         L
po_          .       .__   _ _                        .__   _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _             _ _  _ _    _ _ _  _              ___ _t_  _
IL IW_                           P           P p                  p            A.         I          f           1         f          2   4.U2 
P. Lad  Fr                       P           P         P          P            P          L          C           c         C          6,3903,m
10. LnbS                         P         P6          (9P        P            P          L          C           C          f
an P0w        _                                           . .
P1 r .ts                         P           P         P          L            L          L         C            C         f
l1m__ _                                                   __                        .._ ___                                   ___



- 82 -                  Annex 3
Page 35 of 35
!               ,4 i1 4   e
*~~        - I     -W       I5ek7[    
I-LF 
;~~~                    M                 t.i  i,Xe
L2,    ,          '    i 
-             '           .'



Page I afe
MEXCO: AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMl ENT LOAN n
POLICY MATRIX
SUGGESTED MEASURES
POIUCY ISSUE                   POLUCY OBJECTIVE                        ALREADY ACHIEVED
EFFECTIVENESS AND              SECOND TRARCHE
DATED COVENANTS
I. GENERAL CONDIJIONS
A. wacro-economic Framework                                               A. Macro-economic Framework
Provision to the Bank of evidence that the                                Provision to the Bank of
macroeconomic policy framework is                                         evidence that the
consistent with the objectives of the                                     macroecnomfc policy
pr.gram.                                                                  tramework is consistent with
the objectives of the
B. Maintainlno Proares                                                    program.
Maintain policy reforms implemented up to                                 B. Maintainina Progress
this moment and documented under this
project.                                                                  Maintain policy reforms
implemented up to Board
presentation and docicented
It. AGRICULTURAL GROWTH AND          PRODUCTION POLICY                                                                                       under this project.
PRODUCTIVITY
Problem:  low rate of           1. Reduce direct policy                                                                                                                     l
growth, inefficient             interventions in output and
resource use and stagnating    input markets.                                                                                                                                OD
productivity.
2. Inpxove allocation of
pubilc expenditure in
agriculture.
3. Redwue goverrment
intervention in farmer's
production decisions.
A. Price. trade Poltcv and
market reulatlo-ns
(output and inputs)
1.  Distort trade and           1.  Output markets                1. outout markets                              1. Output Markets           1.  Ootd  Marketsl
resource allocation in
production wnd             a. Liberalization of consuewr    a.  Price                                                                   a. Price wnd trade policy:
consumption.               and producer prices of                                                            Dated Coveat:
agricultural comwdities lnd       (1)  The guarantee price system has been       (1) elimfnate hport         (1) tilpement action  plan
2.  Large global subsldles    their industrial derivatives.    abolished for: wheat, sorghum, soybean,           permits for green           agreed upon; that is:
to inputs and producer                                        rice, barley, cotton seed, cartamo,            coffee no later than       (a) inplement a system which
prices achieving modest   b. Reduction of general price    sunflower, copra and sesame. Maize and            September 30, 1991;        will etiminate CONASUPO's
results.                   subsidies.                         soae quatities of beans still remain in                                   m      y   an    allorts of
the ggarantee price system.                                                odEr~ miltk, and alltocate



MMte 4
P"ae 2 of 9
MEXICO: AaRWCULTRmAL SECTOR AOUMUSMET LOAN II
PODLCYMA4TF"X
POLICY ISSUE                POIUCY OBJECTiVE                     ALREADY ACHIEVED                               S    _      MEASURES
E3FFECTIVEDEBS AND          SECOND TRANCHE
DATED COVENANtS
Efefhvemb ne:            ipqort perWmts in a
c. Reduction of regulstory     (2) Level of domestic producer prices for   (2) Issue the decre     transperent, oqeotitive and
market barriers and promotion    green coffee and eocoa determined by     that modifies present    efficient basis;
of private sector coopetition.   internatfonal prices.                    ean piraet               (b) eliminate alt export
arrareements.     permits for fluuid milik, aid
(3) Prices of roasted coffee solubte      arrangements.            =od r milk;
coffee ftexibilized.                                                Cc) altow for prices of
tobac-o to be freely
(4) Prices of paddy rice, sorghtu, and                             determined by the market;
soybeans freely determined by the market.                           (d) not increase the nominal
protectlon for _at above
(S) Differentlat dmestic price of suar                             its level existing on fay 1,
according to user eliminated; one price                            1991;
established for the s_e quality.                                    te) flexibilize prices for
cookies, pasta, edible oils,
(6) Teros of reference agreed for study to                         cigarettes, eggs, beef and
design a syste which will eliminate                                deiry products;
CONASIIPO s monopoly on Irports of powder                           (f) not increase the
mitk nd will allocate iqort permits fn a                           srantee price of maize to
transparent, cepetitive and efficient                              a level over Its equivalent    co
basis.                                                             real US doltar value for the    o-
AuttaniWinter cycle of
IT) Terms of reference agreed for study to                         1990/1991;                     t
define price and trade policy for edible                           (8) not incr_e the
beans.                                                             domestic price of sugar
above its equvalent reel US
(8) Terms of reference agreed for study to                         dollar value on Jarmry 1,
define sugar policy.                                                1991;
(h) not inerease the nminal
price of barley for tho
period Jwie t. 191 to
January 3t 1992 above the
ton, and set te nominal
price of barley for the
perod Feb 1, 192 to
amry 1, 19. 3 at a levet
not to exceed 714,000 peso
p   ton;



ME)AC0. AaRCULURA SOAJUST    LOM n
POIJCY ISSUE                  POUCY OBJECTIVE                        ALREADY ACIOEVED
EFFECTIV0IE    AND            SECOND TRANCH
DATE COVENANTS
(i) discsus ith the eask
the result of the suar
stud  and based an such
discusfon approve a polfcy
for te suiar sector; and
(j) Agree en action plan
that foltows frtS the edible
beaws market study.
b. Ita1:                                     Effec*anes:
(1) Export permits for coffee, rice,         () Eiminate export
sesame, sunf lower, and vegetable oil        tax for rsa  cotton,
-except eertamo end  ett@nseed oft-          cotton fiber, wd swine
lIfted.                                      for breeding.
(2) Export pernits for beef and eattle on    (2) Eliminate export
the hoof lifted.                             permit for ueaet,
sorghum, foeedtuffs,
(3) A decree an eattle export that           swe, bterley, copre,                                       o
determines a gradual red.ction of tariff    carteoo, cartmo oit,                                        c
on exports of male aninals, and              cottonseed, toahcco and
etImination of such a tariff tY Septusber     _
1992, issued.
(4) Restrietive export praectices for
fruits and vegetables etlminated.
(5) Icport permits for susar eliminated.
Protection granted through a varleble lay
(6) IWort permits for sorghum, capra,
oltseeds and of Idseed oils lifted.
C.  Orket Z aLtetais
Restrictions that prevnted entry Into the
corn-torti l  Indf stry abot lshed.
2.  IrLu *arkbts                 2. Inoutm rkgts;                                                        2. kIna  .mrktel:
a. Lfbewal1xe prices and trade   a. Price End trade aliev                                                a. Price and  trade mfelw
anideliinate reo lationa an
the feeastuftf, sed              (1) llpoct licese for new sarioulturml                                  (1) fot pesticides: maintain
mechinery end pesticede          mhinry  olished.                                                        poIcy of allowing prices of
mrkets.                                                                                                  pestiecdes to te freely
detefmined br the market:



Pagex 4.1
MEXICO: AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AWJUSTUENT  LOAN II
POUCY MATRFX
SUGGTESED MEASURES
POIICY ISSUE                  POUCY OBAJECLT AREADY ACHIEVED                                                    A
IFFEClTME11ESS /UND            SECONhD 11RANCHE
DATED CMNEUNTS
(2) Tractor prices ftreely determined by
the market.
b. Design oid enforce a           b. Market Realdations                                                      b. Market regulations:
regulatory system for
pesticide, pilnt protection       (1) For pesticides: agreement reached on                                   (1) Agree on action parks to
and animal health based           terms of reference for a study to diagnose                                 implement recou_ndation  of
strictly on quality control,      current use. assess present legal aid                                      the studies on: (a) animat
health, phytosanitary,             institutionat framewrk and stremtiine                                     health; (b) plant
epidemiological and               procedwres to: (a) promote coqpetition                                     protection; and (c) quatity
enviro  Iental protection         between prodecers and distributors;                                        control of pesticides.
grounds.                           (b) establish guidetines on  minimu                                       Rutes and regulations would
standards to deal with health and                                         be based strictly on quality      co
enwiromental issues; and (c) enforce                                      control, health,
quality control.                                                          epidemiotogical,
phytosaniary, end
(2) For animal health and plant                                           enwironmental protection
protection: agreement reached on terms of                                 grounds.
reference for a study to: (a) assess the
regulation, organization and procedures of                                (2) For seeds: eliminate
the system of plant protection and animal                                 restrictions that impede
health; and (b) elaboratt a proposeal to                                  private sector competition
modernize the system and streamline its                                   to PROMASE. PROMASE's
procedures.                                                               monopoly of germplasm
produced by INI FAP and
(3) Government has Initiated the process                                  limits on plant breeding by
of submitting to Congress a draft seed law                                the private sector.
that wil etiminate: restrictions that
fcpede private sector competition with
PRRMASE, PRONASE's monopoly of germplasm
produced by iNtFAP, and limits on plant
breeding by the private sector.



AMM4
MEXICO: A RICULTURAL SECTOR ADJstTMBEr LOAN n
POLCY MATRIX
SUGESTED MEASURES
POUCY ISSUE                   POUCY OBJECTIVE                        ALREADY ACHIEVED
trPECENESS AND                SECOND 1TRNCHE
DAEIC0IEIUANTS
B.  Batata   c   rolls         B. Parastatals                    B. Parastatals
M HiiOW"n and marketi
1. Parastatals generated       1. Dismantle parastatal          1. Seventeen parastatals of SARU
large losses and 1ncreased    apparatus for market              liquidated in 1989 and 1990 (excludes
deffcit of public sector.      intervention as price and         sugar mills).
trade policy is rationalized.I
2.  introduced large                                            2. Distribution manooly and the
Inefficiencies into markets   2. Reduce waste in public         acquisition right of purchase of sugar
intervened by perastatats.    sector expenditures through       fram mil ls taken away from AZUCAR.
agricultural parastatals.
3. Precluded competition                                        3. Elimination of the 50% tax precluding
and discouraged private                                         private sector transactions in sugar and
sector investment.                                              cocoa.
4. Full divestiture of the SO governent-
owed sugar mitls.
5. withdraual of the parastatats for                                                                    o
coffee (INNECAFE), tobacco (TABANEX), and                                                               -4
cocoa (CoNADECA) from marketing coffee,
tobacco and cocoa.
6. All plants of ALSANEX but one sold;
liquidation of company already authorized.
7. DecisIon to restructure CONASUPO and
its affiliates; most important actions
are:
a. Divestiture of ICOUSA.
b. Process of AMDSA#s divestiture has
started.
c. BORUCONSA*s storage fsc.lities open for
commercial use by the social and private
sectors.
d. All 569 urban supermarkets ctosed.
e. Improved coverage of marginat areas by
DICCONSA's rural stores.



AMah
mUxIOOi ACULMALM SCTO AWUMSYMB LOAN U
PMATMX
mm o            MEAURES
PO' CY1U'                    POUCY O" ECTIVE                       ALREADY ACHIEV 
_^DCWEM N                    SECOND DACE
DATED TSNLW
C.                            C. PAhlfc exmqiditure            C. P"hlic exendfture                                                  C. Pi%lfc xoendfture
1. Lag pbic expenditure   1. l1rn  allcation and                       t   sW          Sat1S t                                      Provsofn of satisfactory
to scfhedime agrfeiutural     effiienfy of psbtlc             eide   that             and caposition of                             evfd ene that the level wd
proucr prices ad inputs    expediture in agriculture.                                                                               coqeltifn of budpeted
has been urodective.                                          presented to C ess in the 1991 d                                       agricuttural expediture
2. Increase pAlle ievestmlstent  th the    c                                                          presented to Congress in the
2. Lm tlevl of pAblto         in rnfoastrnture, research      prrm Ord uith an off letent allocation                                 1992 uge is consistent
investment expenditure In       n extension.                  of so6ent resources  t the sector                                     with the maeroeconomie
wgriclturt  particutarly In                                    lenet for the fiscat year 1991.                                      progran end with en
infrastructur  research                                                                                                             efficent altocation of
and extension leadin, to                                                                                                            gefrient resources at the
deterioration of                                                                                                                     sector level.
Intrastructure and the
sector's productive
caaity.
D. RHNI's wrodcvtion          0. SARH s aradutlon taorets     0. Mliffs Prodectian tarsets                 D. SW* poction           D. SAlK's arodection taroets
tornots                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~targets                                 co
San K d other agencies et   Dismantle system.                 Agreeent en ters of reference for study    Ef3otiems:                  loplment actions agreed
production golst guided by                                    to Identify the prcems, legislation and      1. Present study shich    open to elimfnate and           t
some seltf-sufficiency                                        regulation that gives SONK and other         ietntifies                         proces     Wses 
criteria unrelated to                                         Goverment entities the power to             tegislation a             regulations that enforce the
marhet conditions. This                                        establish, coordinate and enforce           reguatitons that give    sY5t  of crop pro<*tIon
systen is a source of                                         production targets.                            Si onother ttretsB.
distortion  in resource                                                                                   GSWrsnt entitles the
allocation, encourwes                                                                                      poer to establish    e
resource  aste at the farm                                                                                coordinte ond enforce
t-! and drains initiative                                                                                 cocp prodectlon
awd entrepreneurial ability                                                                                targlets.
from faorers.
Dated Cove :.
2. Based on the study,
preent to the Baic
not later then
Septeber 30, 1991, a
satisfactory plan of
actin to etiminate ond
dismantle processes,
Nd regulations that
enforce the system of
crop prodiction
targets.



ADflx 4
Peg. 7sof S
MOW*-.: AGRICULTURAL S-ECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN n
SUGGETED MEASURES
POLICY ISSUE                 POLICY ODJUTIVE                       ALREADY ACHIEVEDvNSSAD                                           EOD  RM
DATED COVENMTS
III. FM OGO cUSUTIC  AND
1. Agricultural price and    1. Red=e incfdence of            1. increase of targeted and aemtargeted                               1. Present evaluation of
mwarkting poicy were      matnutritfon in Nexico in the    subsidfes (tortibonos and mIl k pirogs.am                            food wnd nutrition program
subordinated to          medfta-term.                     and OJICOUSA stores) from 0O.13Z of GDP in                            as agreed to In the
constuer price policy.    2tprvefciensof                  1969 to 0.26X of GDP fn 1990.                                          ieptemmntation plsn for *IES.
2. Gtlota consuer             nutrition and primary heaLth    2. Agreement an cenvtrat guidelines for a                             2. Agree with the B"anko
stsidieas resuted fn a   pi ogrua  by fully exploiting    medium-term food and nutritfon program.                               geneal and agences action
high fiscat cost and      coepLementarity.                                                                                      plans for 199-1996.
waste of resources.                                       3. Definition of the target population for
3. Eliminate consmer price      the food ard nutrition program.
3. Becmaue of substentiat    control as the main instrument
leakae  stglota          for ispeameting food             4. tealth system designated as executing
subsidies were not       consuitfon policy,               agent of the nutrition and health prooram.
cost-effective in
attacking poverty and    4. Free agricultural             S. UPP designated as the agency in charge
malntrition.             production and trade policy      of: (a) p-qreparn  central guidelines for
from Its sihordintatin to       the isediu term progrm; and
4. Targeted consAption        consumer price policy.          (b) coordinating the: Ci) budget
pirogram are mainly                                       aLlocation for the food and nutrition
ura   hile most of the                                 progrm  to the executing agencis; and
poetlive In rural                                     (ii) monitoring, evaluation and research
areas.                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~of the food and nutrition programs.
6. Agrainnt reacedW on: (a) terms of
reference for the design of a system to
eveluate and monitor food and nutritfon
progam (NES); and (b) a plan of action
to ixplement such a system.
7. Agreement on a process for using the
results of the monitoring and evaluatfon
system-(NES) to adjust the guidelines and
prgam acrding to the lessons learned
fro xoperience.
S. loptementatfon of agreed food,
nutrition and heatth pilot project has
been started.



- 90 -
Annex 4
Page 8 of 9
COMMODITY SPECIFIC ACTION PLAN FOR TRADE AND PRICE POLICY Of AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS                          Attachment
Page I of 2
Gross
Studiesl   Imports -ORs-            Expots -Re-                       Price               value of
Product          Other  Status on Board  Second   Status on  Board  Second  Statuson   Board   Second    outpit 190
Actione  1-24-01        Tranche   1-24-01         Tranche  1-24-91            Tranche  (Million Pesos)
GRAINS AND DERIVATIVfS
1. Maize and derivatives
Maize                              P      P        P        P        p       p        a       G(1)     G(1)         7,211,564
Tortilla                                                                              C        C         C
2. Wheat
Wheat                              P      P        P        P        L       L        Cc       Co      Cc (2)       1.819.584
Wheat flour                        L      L        L        P        P       L        C        C         C
Cookies                            L       L       L        L        L       L        C        C         F
Pasta                              L      L        L        L        L       L        C        C         F
3. Rice
Paddy Rlce                         L      L        L        L        L       L        Cc       L         L           226.101
White Rice                         L       L       L        L        L       L        L         L        L
4. Sorghum
Sorghum                            L      L        L        P        L       L        Cc        L        L          2,781,779
FeedLtuffs                         L      L        L        P        L       L        L         L        L
5. Beans                  (3)       P       P   Agree on      P       P   Agree on    0 (4)    G (4)     G (4)       2,688,707
action plan               action plan
. Barley                            P       P       P         P       L       L        Cc       Cc      Cc (S)         294,883
OILSEEDS AND DERIVATIVES
1. Soybean
Soybean                            L       L       L        P        L       L        Cc        L        L           355.828
Soybeancake                        L      L        L        L        L       L        L         L        L
Soybean oil                        L      L        L        L        L       L        C        C         F
2. Copra
Copra                              L      L        L        P        L       L        L         L        L           211,202
Copra oil                          L       L       L        L        L       L        C        C         F
3. Sunflower                                                                                                              n.a.
Sunflower                          L      L        L        L        L       L        L         L        L
8unfloweroll                       L      L        L        L        L       L        C        C         F
4. Sesame
Sesame                             L      L        L        L        L       L        L         L        L            127,200
Sesame oll                         L      L        L        L        L       L        C        C         f
5. Castmo (Safflower)
Canamo                             L      L        L        P        L       L        L         L        L            191,93
Caitamo oll                        L      L        L        P        L       L        C        C         F
S. Cottonseed
Cottonseed                         L      L        L        P        L       L        L         L        L           397,450
Cotonsed cake                      L      L        L        L        L       L        L        L         L
Cottonsed oil                      L      L        L        L        L       L        C        C         F
FIBERS
1. Cotton                                                                                                                 n.a.
Raw                                L      L        L        L       L (6)    L        L         L        L
Fiber                              L      L        L        L       L (7)    L        L        L         L
(1) not increase the guarafntee pice of maie over Its equvalent real US dollar value for the Autumn/Winter cycle of 190191
(2) not Increase the nominal proteton for wheat above Its level existing In May 1, 19091
(3) prior to Board presentation agree on terms of reference for study to define price and trade policy
(4) consumer prces are free
(5) not Increase the nominal price of barley for the perIod June 1 19091 to January31. 1902 above the level of MexSe80000 pesos per ton, and set the
nominal price of barley for the period February 1 1092 to January 3i. 1993 at a level not to exceed MexI 714000 per ton
(a) Eliminate export tax
(7) ElIminate export tax
QRe -import and export-: P means permit L means free of permit
Prices: GuGuarantee; CosConcertaclon; FaFtexlbilized; L- Free C-Controlled



- 91 -
Annex 4
Page 9 of 9
COMMODITY SPECIFIC ACTION PLAN FOR TRADE AND PRICE POLICY OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS                 Attachment
Page2 2  2
Gross value of
Product         Studies/  Imports -QRs-              Exports -GRs-                   PrIce              agricultural
Other  Status on Board  Second   ataue on  Board Second Status on  Board   Second   output In 1990
Actione  1-24-91        Tranche  1-24-91         Tranche 1-24-91            Trancho  (Million pesos)
FRUITS (1)                           P      P       P         L        L      L       L        L         L          2,768,018
VEGETABLES                           L      L       L         L        L      L       L        L         L           663,386
BEVERAGES
1. offee
Green                              P      P      L(2)       L        L      L       L         L        L          1.016,941
Roasted                            P      P        P        L        L      L       C         F        F
Soluble                            P       P       P        L        L      L       C         F        F
2. Coca
Cocoa                              L       L       L        L        L      L       L         L        L            103.370
Chocate In bare                    L       L       L        L        L      L       L         L        L
SUGAR AND SUGAR CANE
1. Suger cane                (3)
2. Sugar                     (4)
8ugar'mascabado                    L      L        L        P        P      P       C       C (S)    C (S)        7.462,518
Raw euga                           L      L        L        P        P      P       C       C ()     C (s)
Refined ugwr                       L      L        L        P        P      P       C       C (a)    c (a)
TOBACCO AND CiGARETTES
1. Tobacco                          P       P       P         P       L      L       Co       Cc        L            1S5,149
2. Clgarettes                       P       P       P         L       L       L       C        C        F
S. Clgars                           P       P       P         L       L       L       L        L        L
LIVESTOCK POULTRY AND DAIRY
1. Cattle                           L       L       L         L       L      L        L        L        L
a. eof                              L       L       L         L       L       L     0(6)       f        F       2,934,913,1S3
. Swlne for laughter                L       L       L         L       L       L       L        L        L
4. Swine tor breeding               L       L       L         L      L 7M     L       L        L        L
S. Forkmcat                         L       L       L         L       L       L       L        L        L
S.LUvechicken                       P       P       P         L       L       L       L        L        L       1,604,624,65166
7. Chlcken most                     P       P       P         L       L       L       L        L        L
8.Eggs                              P       p       P         P       L       L       F        F        F          2,794,432
9. Fresh mlUk                       P       P       P         P       P       L       C        C        C          6,393,306
10. Powdered milk                   P     P (a)    (a)       P        P      L       C         C        F
11 Dalryproduote                    P       P       P         L        L      L       C        C        F
AGRICULTURAL INPUTS AND MACHINERY
1. New trawtore                     L       L       L         L       L      L       Co        L        L
2. Equipment                        L       L       L         L       L       L       L        L        L
S. Pesticides                       L       L       L                                 L        L      L(10)
(1) Impon permits for fruits are applied to some temperate zone fruits; permite are also applied on a seasonal basis
(2) Import permits of green coffee to be eliminated on 9-3-1991
(3) Issue new decree that modifies present cane payments arrangements
(4) for Board presentation agree on terms of reference for study to define sugar pollcy: for second tranohe, discuss results of
sugar study and based on auch discussion approve a policy for the sugar sector;
(6) not Increase the domestIc price of sugar over Its equlvalent real US dollar value In January 1. 1991
(6) prIoe control applied on poputar cuts of beef
(7) eliminate export tax
(8) prepare study to dedign system whIch will eliminate CONASUPO's Import monopoly
(9) Implemen system which will elIminate CONASUPO's monopoly on Imports of powder milk, end allocate
permits for Import of powder milk In a transparent, competitive and efficient basie
(10) have maintained pollcy of allowing prices of pesticIdes to be freely determined by the market
QRe -Import and export-: P means permit: L means Sree of permit
Prioes: G-Guarantee: CcuConcertaclon: FuFiexIbilized; La Free; OdContriled
*1 Value of fruit Includes melon, avocado, lemon, apple, orange, plantain, and Crapes. (data on strawberry, mango, and watermelon are not available)
I *J Value of vegetables Is only for red tomaftoes. Data on other vegetables not avallable.
+ Value of slaughter for 1988.
SOURCE, For values: Cantos SalInas de Gortari. Segundo Inform. do Goblerno 1990: and
INEGI. Anuario Estadistioo do los Estado Unidos Mexaionoe. 18-1S6



- 92 -
AnDD s
Page 1 of 3
MEXXCO: AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
Receat Policy Beformg in hAricultural Commodity Markets
and Parastatals
A. Ptice and Trade Policy
1.          ,Cff,ee. Since the suspension of the International Coffee
Agreement (ICA) quota system in early July 1989, the most important changes in
the coffee market include:
(a)  Elimination of the Official Minimum Purchase Price (OMPP) in
October 1989 and gradual phase-out of purchases by INNECAP!.
INMECAFE's purchasing activities are to be limited to buying only
from producers committed to selling a portion of their output to
INMECAFE before the harvest for the next three crop years. After
the third crop year (i.e., 1992/93), INMECAFE's purchasing
activities would cease.
(b)   Elimination of export permits and minimum export registration
price. As a result, there has been a considerable reduction in
the paperwork needed to perform coffee export transactions.
2.          cocoa.  The Mexican cocoa sub-sector until recently was fraught
with market interventions and distortions:   (a) producer prices--which did
not reflect world prices--were determined periodically by a committee of
producers, manufacturers and the government parastatal CONADECAQ
(b) manufacturers of cocoa products and chocolate were not allowed to export
but were forced to sell all their products to one of the producer
cooperatives, VNPC (Uni6n Nacional de Productores de Cacao) or UREPCC (Unifn
Regional Estatal de Productores de Cacao del Estado de Chiapas), which in turn
obtained export permits from CONADECAI and (c) a 50 percent tax on purchases
of cocoa beans by private traders practically made this activity prohibitive.
In effect, this allowed UNPC and UREPCC to tax producers. Since September
1989, imports and exports of cocoa and chocolate products have been
liberalized and controls on producer prices and the 50 percent tax on
purchases by private traders have been eliminated.
3.          Tobacco.  For tobacco, the restructuring of TABAMEX, which
essentially eliminated the government'e commercial role in the tobacco
industry, was announced in Mexico on September 29, 1989. TABAMEX continued
its financial and commercial roles during the 1989-90 crop year. Since then,
it participates only as a member of the supervisory committee to arbitrate the
annual negotiation of tobacco prices between tobacco growers and tobacco
manufacturers and exporters, basing those decisions on criteria of
international efficiency.
4.          Suaar.  For sugar, the conditions of AGSAL I required the closure
of six sugar mills and the preparation of a study on sugar pricing.



- 93 -
A"nnex 5
Page 2 of 3
Government actions have gone well beyond that. They include: (a) lifting
non-tariff import barriers; (b) divesting AZUCAR of its monopoly acquisition
right of purchase from mills; (c) abolishing all requirements for a license to
import; (d) introducing a variable import levy to enforce a floor sugar price;
(a) abolishing the requirement that mills must pay a 50 percent tax to market
sugar outside the A8UCAR distribution system; (f) selling all government-owned
sugar mills; and (g) modifying the cane payment arrangements.
5.          Corn-tortilla chain.  Government actions to protect consumers and
favor producers produced a web of price controls and regulations that
stretched from agricultural production to manufacturing and distribution. As
objectives multiplied, regulations mounted. The corn-tortilla sector has been
one of the most controlled sectors, together with the wheat-bread and oilseed-
vegetable oil chains. The conflicting objectives of paying a high price to
maize producers and providing cheap tortillas to the urban population led to
the creation of a complex battery of regulations along the corn-tortilla
chain.  These regulations comprised price and trade interventions plus
barriers to entry to manufacturing.
S.          The subsidy mechanism was extremely complex.  There was a single
national support price for corn and four different prices for the sale of corn
to millers, producers, and DICCONSA. Each industrial producer set two
different prices for dough and flour, depending on location, and the tortilla
had three different prices (one for Mexico City, one for the rest of the
country, and one for tortibonce). The structure of the industry, with the
mixture of traditional-versus-modern producers, was artificially determined by
this ad-hoc intermediate pricing system. This system has been substantially
modifieds the differential price of maize has been abolished for practical
purposes and the Tortibono has been replaced by the Tortivales, which entitles
a beneficiary family to receive one kilogram of Torillas per day. In rural
areas, where a proper system to alleviate poverty and attack malnutrition is
not in place yet, a subsidy for maize flour is being provided in the DICCONSA
retail outlets of CONASUPO. This subsidy will be retained until a better
targeted health and nutrition program Is implemented.
7.          In addition to the complex pricing system, regulations that
deterred entry and promoted capital intensity in the manufacturing side of the
corn-tortilla chain were abolished in July of this year. Moreover, the
subsidy arising from the preferential electricity tariff rate for nixtamal
mills and tortillerias, estimated at US$25 million, was also abolished.
8.          Inuts.  Although A6SAL I did not request policy reforms for
inputs, it requested preparation of a plan for a system of agriculture water
charges to achieve recovery of operation and maintenance costs. The plan
prepared under AGSAL I was inadequate. In the context of the preparation of
the Irrigation Sector Loan, however, the government has provided a plan that
gives sufficient basis for further policy dialogue and that will be supported
by the Irrigation Sector Loan. The main points in the action plan are to
transfer management of irrigation districts to the users progressively and to
charge fees for irrigation water according to use. This is to ensure
financial viability in irrigation districts, including recovery of O&M costs
and a reasonable portion of the capital costs. The government already has
initiated this program.



- 94 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
9.          In addition to the above, the requirements for import licenses for
new machinery have been dropped for domestic producers of machinery, and a
tariff has been imposed as the only protection mechanism. Although this
measure does not go all the way in liberalizing machinery imports, it is a
step in the right direction.
D. Parantatals
10.         Suaar Parastatal (AZUCAR).  The government has fully divested
itself from the sugar mills and has taken away from AZUCAR its distribution
monopoly and the acquisition right of purchase of sugar from mills.
ll.         CON8UPO. The government has embarked on a program of
restructuring CONASUPO that includess (i) privatization of ICONSA (Industrias
CONASUPO) and ANDSA (Almacenes Nacionales de Dep6sitoes) (ii) closure or
privatization of all DICCONSA retail outlets in high-income neighborhoods$
(iii) closure or privatization of some storage facilities and rationalization
of operations of BORUCONSA (Bodegas Rurales CONASUPO) and IMPECSA (Impulsora
del Pequeflo Comercio).
12.         coffee  oarantataljIXNMECAPS1.  Gradual sale of INNECAFE's
processing facilities to the farmer co-operatives (UZPCo) is under way.
13.         Cocoa  arantatal IC =O lD,C  Government has divested from
CONADECA.
14.         Tobago- parastatal (TASAME).  The process of divestLture of
TABAMEX is well advanced and proceeding as planned.
S5.         Others.  In addition to the above, the government lso
(i) privatizing ALBAMEX (AlLmentos Balanceados Nexicanos) through public
salesl and (Ui) restructuring the Instituto Nacional de Capacitaci6n Rural to
increase private sector participation in its operation.



- 95 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 8
MEXICO, AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
Food Consumption Programs
A. Programs
1.          Between 1982 and 1989 real per capita income fell 17 percent in
the urban sector while it remained stagnant in the rural sector. On average,
real per capital income fell 12 percent. Initially, as part of the adjustment
process, general food price subsidies were reduced. In 1983 the Oovernment
realized that these changes would increase the risk of malnutrition for
families below the poverty line/. It, therefore, introduced or expanded
targeted food price subsidy and food distribution programs in the framework of
the Proorama Nacional de Alimentacifn 1983-1988 IPRONAL).
2.          To protect the real income of consumers and promote food self-
sufficiency, the government has traditionally subsidized urban consumption and
sometimes the production of certain foodstuffs. These programs have resulted
in large fiscal outlays, have not increased food self-sufficiency, and have
not reached the neediest groups. Their fiscal cost has fluctuated sharply.
After reaching an all-time high of 1.253 percent of GDP in 1983, untargeted
food subsidies were compressed to only 5 percent of that amount in 1987. The
retail price freeze instituted as part of the stabilization measures of The
Economic Solidarity Pact (the "Pacto") was maintained for an especially long
time for basic foods. At the same time producer prices, especially of maize,
rose in real terms.  As a result, untargeted food subsidies to maintain the
wedge between producer and consumer prices rose again to 0.86 percent of GDP
in 1989 (see Table A6.1).
3.          Under AGSAL I the Government committed itself to limiting budget
transfers to CONASUPO to US$85 million for the purpose of general food
subsidies. While fulfilling this commitment, the expansion of food subsidies
was instead financed by borrowing, especially through lines of credit from
agricultural suppliers (Commodity Credit Corporation and others).
1/    The poverty line is determined by the family income needed to obtain a
"basic food basket" (canasta bAsica) providing sufficient nutrients to a
family of five, including two children under 12 years.   PRONAL estimated
this to be equivalent to one-and-one-half minimum salaries.



- 96 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 8
Table A6.1s GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE IN GENERAL AND TARGETED SUBSIDIES
(As percent of GDP)
1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989 1990
Targeted         0.000 0.000 0.000 0.031 0.067 0.118 0.126 0.175
Tortilla    0.000 0.000 0.000 0.013 0.050 0 047 0.041 0.045
Milk        0.000 0.000 0.000 0.018 0.017 0.071 0.085 0.130
General          1.253 1.061 0.513 0.238 0.005 0.370 0.736 0.490
Total            1.253 1.061 0.513 0.269 0.072 0.488 0.862 0.748
Source:   CONASUPO, Direct information. General subsidies correspond to
subsidies in grain and oilseeds.
* Estimate
1. Untaroeted
4.        Untargeted programs are implemented through producer and consumer
price controls, which are made effective by trade policy decisions, and
government procurement and distribution through CONASUPO. Consumer price
controls are primarily effective in urban areas, which means rural areas
derive almost no benefit from this policy and under current price policy net
buyers of maize, wheat and sugar in rural areas are heavily taxed. For some
time, after the start of the stabilization effort in 1983, the decision to cut
the fiscal deficit led to a sharp reduction of expenditure in general
subsidies. However, because of the price freeze implemented with the Pacto de
Solidaridad Econ6mica in December 1987 (Pacto then, PECE now) and rising real
producer prices of maize, government expenditure in general food subsidies
increased to 0.74 percent of GDP in 1989 from 0.37 percent of GDP in 1988.
5.        Because of substantial leakages, general subsidies are not a cost-
effective way to attack poverty and malnutrition. Expenditure by the three
richest deciles of the population for beans, tortillas, bread and sugar, is no
less than 24 percent, 39 percent, 47 percent and 33 percent of the total
expenditure in each commodity. Assuming that tha subsidy received by
households is proportional to total household expenditure in each commodity,
it is estimated that more than US$100 million reaches the three richest
deciles of the population. Elimination of price controls should lead to the
eventual disappearance of general subsidies. Part of the savings resulting
from the dismantling of general subsidies is expected to be used to support
the expansion of a modified and expanded system of targeted subsidies.
6.        To eliminate general subsidies the following actions are necessarys
(a) elimination of the generalized subsidy for maizet
(b) increase of tortilla prices; and



- 97 _
Annex 6
Page 3 of 8
(c) elimination of the system that endows producers of nixtamal (maize
flour) and tortillas with subsidized maize.
2. Targeted
7.        There are four categories of targeted food and nutrition
interventions, executed through 13 programs that are administered by seven
institutions. These programs cover urban and rural populations, high-risk
groups, and consumer education. Available information provides a good picture
of what these programs are doing to help the poorest segments of the
gopulation in urban and rural areas and those at high risk of malnutrition.
Regrettably, no systematic monitoring of the effect on the nutrition
status of the beneficiaries takes place; therefore, no claim can be made,
based on direct evidence, regarding the effectiveness of the programs in
combating malnutrition.
8.        The most important targeted programs are the tortibono program, the
LICONSA social supply of milk (Abasto Social de Leche), the alimentary
assistance program Desarrollo Integral de la Familia (DIP), which covers
several direct food transfer programs, and the DICCONSA rural retail food sale
program. Since 1984 there has been a steady increase in targeted food
subsidies, mainly in the provis;.on of maize tortillas and milk. As
international milk prices have increased rapidly and coverage of the programs
has expanded in urban areas, the cost of these targeted subsidies has
increased to about 0.18 percent of GDP in 1990 (See Table A6.1).
9.        Urban Pomulation.   The main programs for the urban poor are the
tortibonos and the LICONSA social supply of milk, which respectively provide
tortillas and milk at subsidized prices to families with incomes below two
minimum wages. Beneficiaries of the tortibonos program are selected from two
sources: (a) members of trade unions that have an agreement with DICCONSA for
selling tortibonos; and (b) through individual selection after registering at
a store authorized to sell coupons (CEPAC, CONASUPO stores, concessionaires of
CONASUPO, LICONSA dairies, associated stores, as well as stores from social
organizations). There is a long queue of potential beneficiaries. The
LXCONSA milk coupon program sells liquid milk to eligible families with
children younger than 12 years old. This program operates in urban areas
only. However, LICONSA has started to provide powdered milk to rural areas as
an experiment. The milk coupon program is financed through fiscal transfers
from the Treasury and through a system of differential prices that generates
cross subsidies from high- to low-income groups.
10.       In 1988, the LICONSA and tortibonos programs were reaching about 2
and 1 million families respectively (or 50 percent and 25 percent of the total
2/   CONAL-BANCO MUNDIAL, Documento Sinteuiss Etaluacidn de Proaramas Para
Melorar la Situacifn Alimentaria v Nutricional de la Poblacifn de lSaio
Inoresos, Segunda Etapa (Documento Coordinado por Marcel Morales Ibarra),
Mexico, D.P., junio de 1989.



- 98 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 8
number of urban families with incomes below two minimum wages). Families
benefitting from both programs could save, respectively, US$90 and US$105 per
year in their purchases of milk and tortillas (equivalent to, respectively, 6
percent and 7 percent of average total income of urban families in the lowest
income decile in 1984, or 9 percent and 10 percent of the minimum wage in
1988).
11.       On October 16, 1990 the Government of Mexico announced
modifications to improve the tortilla system. Starting in November 1990, the
present tortibonos program is being replaced by the Tortivales. The new
system is based on a census of beneficiaries of CONASUPO services. Urban
families with a family income lower than two minimum wages will be the
beneficiaries. The number of beneficiaries is about 2.0 million families.
All the beneficiaries are entitled to receive free-of-charge one kilogram of
tortillas per day. The list of beneficiaries will be updated through
information and registration systems. Anybody can request membership, as long
as a social worker verifies that the applicant meets the test for enrollment
(household income below two minimum wages). Members will be monitored by
social workers who will visit them periodically. This revised system will
improve considerably the operation of the present scheme, and the Bank
supports these revisions.
12.       Rural Population.  The main program serving the rural population is
DICCONSA-Rural, which supports the establishment and operation of rural stores
where basic staples and other items of popular consumption are sold at cost.
Several studies coincide in estimating that prices in DICCONSA rural stores
are 14 percent below those of alternative rural outlets. As a result, in 1988
the rural population that benefitted from the program (5.2 million families)
enjoyed a direct saving of US$9 per family per year, which represented 1
percent of the minimum wage. However, in 1989 tne Government introduced a
maize flour subsidy program in the rural areas, which is the rural equivalent
of the tortibono program. Maize flour is distributed by DICCONSA-rural
stores, and all those living in rural areas with access to DICCONSA-rural
stores can benefit from the program. The ad-valorem subsidy rate is
approximately 30 percent, and during 1989 close to 150,000 tons of maize flour
were distributed.
13.       Food Supplementation for High-Risk Groups.  The main programs
targeted for the high-risk population are food distribution programs operated
by the National Welfare Institute (DIF) and the Nutrition in Health program
operated by the Secretary of Health. In 1988 the DIP program covered 1.1
million families, and Nutrition in Health reachel some 54,000 mothers and
248,000 children under five years old.
14.       Consumer Education.  In addition to the direct health and nutrition
education provided by the institutions serving the high-risk groups, the
Instituto Nacional del Consumidor (INCO) carries out a mass media information
program to help the general public use their income efficiently and to develop
healthy eating habits.
15.       Table A6.2 summarizes the main achievements of the Government's
food and nutrition programs as of 1988. First, income transfers per
beneficiary family are large for the milk coupon and tort2bonos programs



Annex 6
Page 5 of 8
(US$91 and US$106 per year respectively) and are relatively low for the rural
community stores (US$24 per family per year). Second, the tortibonos program
is the most cost effective program in terms of nutrients transferred per
dollar spent. Third, the rural poor are served mainly by the DICCONSA rural
community stores, which serve practically all the rural population. Fourth,
for the tortibonos and LICONSA milk programss (a) leakages have been
relatively large, in as much as approximately 40 percent of the benefits go to
better-off urban families, and (b) coverage of the urban poor is not large--
tortibonos serves approximately 30 percent of the urban poor (families having
fewer than 1.5 minimum wages) while the LICONSA milk program serves 45 percent
of the urban poor. Fifth, coverage of the vulnerable groups (poor pregnant
and lactating women and children under five) in the urban sector also is
limited: about 10 percent covered by the tortibonos program and 20 percent by
the LICONSA program. However, coverage by the food supplementation program,
directed to these groups, is relatively better, reaching 40 percent of target
population.
Table AG.2: Targeted and Sesitargjtted Eond Price Subsidies: 1I8
CONCEPT                                                       UA PROiM         RURAL COIHNJlTY       FOD SWPLE-
TORTI9ONS         MILK COUPONS        STORES             MNTATION
Estimated sevinjc to beneficiaries
Total (USIsillion)                                   98                 198                 o1                191
- of which to poor. (USSaillicn)                     62                 128                 28                1S8
gtirated Benefits to Blneficiaries
Income  transfer per fami ly (USS per year)           1106                                   9                  -
Nutrients transferred per ersmon per day c
C Calories                                          89                  172                10           14 - 248
- Proteins                                           24                   6                  5          3J- 6.4
E;=U Ii Do prd
Total (millions)                                   1.0t               l.6                S.20               1.08
Of which:
Urban poor:
Hili1ions                                     O0 SSl.lS                                 -               0.60
As X   total urban poor                         27                  44                  -                 24
Mitr Ilk
mii t t                                         -                 0.04              2,es                0.4e
As Sof total rural poor                          -                   1                 94                 16
Peole srved In vulnerable orouea
Poor pregnant and lactating weoen
and children under 6
MillIons                                      0.43                0.74                2.5                2.0
A Sxof total poor                               1o                  17                 69                 40
Poor children 8 to 12
Millions                                      0.87                0.98                8.1               0.62
As s of total poor                              10                  17                 87                 12
Memo ItI=   all fiaures are estimates for 1988 end siven In millions)
Totl Population                                    62 7                88 0              27 7
Toal  osholds                                      l6.                  11.0              8.8
Poor fa ll esc                                      86                 2. 8               8.01
Pren nt and nureing woman and children under 6
Total                                         119                  6.9             8.0
Poor                                           4.8                 1.8             2.7
Children 8 to 12
Total                                         1s5.                 9.3             6.2
Poor                                           8.4                 2.1             8.8
v  Based on the percentage of families shown in  NIGH-84 as having an incoe below 1.8 minimum salaries.
we Average requiresents are about 2,100 keel and 80 grass of protein per pereon per day



- 100 -
Annex 6
Page 6 of 8
B.   Brief Assessment of Taroeted Proarams
1.  Positive Asoects
16.         The broad development of targeted programs over the past few years
provides an administrative and implementation capacity that would allow the
complete replacement of untargeted food subsidies with subsidies clearly
targeted to low income groups. With the existence of targeted progrsms, the
justification for general food subsidies disappears.
17.         The Tortivales program has implemented a mechanism of food coupons
that entitle the holder to receive tortillas at private shops. This permits
the private sector to supply tortillas and, therefore, can lead to a
considerable reduction of fiscal outlays. The process of converting
tortibonos to cash will be simplified. During the past two years the relative
coverage of the program decreased and income transfers increased, thereby
discriminating against those below the poverty line who do not have access to
the program.
18.         The LICONSA nilk program uses a socioeconomic survey to select
beneficiaries by combining geographical elements (marginal zones) with the
socioeconomic characteristics of the beneficiary families. However, LICONSA
has become a very expensive program due to the sharply rising international
price of powdered milk. The transport and distribution infrastructure
required to provide liquid milk is excessively costly. To increase its
effectiveness, this program should provide milk to a smaller population than
the present one (for example, pregnant women and children under five years
instead of children under 12 years). Other beneficiaries for whom milk is
less essential could be given a food coupon that would entitle them to a
broader and cheaper set of commodities. Alternatively, instead of providing
milk in liquid form, it could be provided in powdered form. The processing
and distribution tasks could be transferred to the private sector.
19.         The rural stores program of DICOONSA has implemented a system for
community participation in the financing, construction and operation of the
stores that shows how the beneficiaries of the program can contribute to its
financing.j/ The rural stores of DICCONSA and the milk stores of LIOONSA
constitute a commercial attraction and a physical infrastructure that has not
been used effectively by other programs. None of the programs provides the
rural poor with protection comparable to that afforded to the urban poor,
despite poverty and malnutrition being more prevalent in rural areas than In
urban areas. The CONASUPO Rural program has the physical and social
infrastructure to reach the rural poor and, properly modified, can be used as
a vehicle for directly transferring income to tie rural poor and to support
actions targeted to the high-risk groups. This is being done with the maie
flour subsidy program, where all those living in rural areas can benefit from
the program. Those peasants who produce maize for their own consumption do
not benefit from the program.
I/    LICONSA also has a program of community participation.



- 101 -
Page 7 of 8
20.         The main mechanisms of the present programs that should be kept in
a modified food consumption program aret (a) the structure established to
distribute, redeem and reimburse the tortibonos, which permits the use of
private stores to deliver the tortillas; (b) the method of survey-and-visits
used by LICONSA to select beneficiary families; (c) the system of communlty
participation in the construction, management and supervision of CKNASVPO
rural stores; and (d) the access mechanisms to the DIP food rations program
for school-age children.
2.  Problems
21.  The main drawbacks of these programs ares
(a)   Coverage of rural areas, where most of the poor live, is very low
(less than 2 percent of population), except for the DXCOONSA rural
retail program, which covers almost all the rural populatlon.
Thus, most of the program's beneficiaries are urbanites and
heavily concentrated in Mexico City (DF).
(b)   Nutritionally the programs are not efficient because they do not
combine the provision of food with the provision of health
services and nutrition education.
(c)   Even in urban areas, coverage of the target population is still
low. However, the government has expanded to 2 million families
the Tortivales program in the urban areas, covering approximately
12 million people.
22.         The problems with the tortibonos and LICONSA programs were that*
(a) they were insufficiently targeted, ln as much as families above the
poverty line been eligible; (b) milk and tortillas do not provide a
nutritionally balanced or cost-effective ration; and (c) the programs were
been uncoordinated, and based on different eligibility criteria. As a result,
some urban families were served by several programs at the sam time while
others may be reached by none. However, with the census of the poor urban
population carried out by CONASUPO, and the improved coordination of the
tortibales and Liconsa programs, a major improvement in the working of the two
programs is envioaged.   Administrative savings will come from  using
ldentical selection criteria and by consolidating the rolls of eligible
families for both programs, and coordinating the perLodic reviews of
beneficiary eligibility. Targeting will be improved as CONASUPO has already
identified the potential beneficiaries of the programst families with an
income below two minimum wages, living in urban centers of more than 200,000
inhabitants.
23.         The LICONSA program requires a costly infrastructure to, flrst,
rehydrate powdered milk and, second, distribute it to the beneficiaries. Thle
product is difficult to supply in rural areas, especially in those where
access is difficult. For this reason, the program needs tot (a) incorporate
the private sector in the production and distribution processt (b) increa"
the distribution of powdered milk; and (c) use substLtuto products with the
same nutritional value at lower cost.



- 102 -
Page 8 of 8
24.         For a food program to serve as an in_entive for participation in
health or education programs, the food ration must be large enough to induce
beneficiaries to demand the complementary social programs. Only the urban
programs of milk coupons and tortibales have a benefit level (9 percent of
minimum wage) that can be considered large enough to serve as an incentive.
But interaction with the health and education programs is still very small.
There are no corresponding food programs in rural areas, where there is
greater need for the joint intervention of coordinated social programs.
3. Conclusions
25.         The key issues surrounding the targeted programs are: (a) less
than 10 percent of the income transfers in those programs reach the rural
areas where most of the poor population lives and where most of the serious
malnutrition occurs; (b) targeting rules of the individual programs need to be
consistent; (c) the programs provide only tortillas and milk, which is a
costly ration and nutritionally inappropriate; (d) how to phase out the
subsidies for present beneficiaries who would not be eligible under new
targeting rules} and (e) how to revise and incorporate the various programs in
an integrated health and nutrition program that would reach the poorest people
of Mexico.
26.   Criteria for selecting a target population should include other
socioeconomic aspects in addition to income levels, in particular those that
indicate the health and nutritional status of the target population.
Targeting can best be achieved by health- and school-based programs that
monitor mothers and children. Therefore, food entitlements should be assigned
to families identified within these programs. Moreover, combining food
entitlements with health and school programs can greatly increase their
attractiveness.



-  103  -                         AnBI
Page I of 3
MEICO: AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
Sunglementarv Loan Data Sheet
Section XL        Timetable of KNv Eventg
(a)   Time taken by the country to prepare the loan:         18 months
(b)   Appraisal missions                                     January/March 1991
(c)   Completion of negotiations:                            May 24, 1991
(d)   Planned Date of Effectiveness                          July 1991
aectlon XII       g8iecial Rank IMolementation Actigog
None
asetctl    xxII-  Ratcial Cogditions
1.    Contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of the Loan
Agreement have been executed.
2.    The government has issued a decree that modifies present cane payment
arrangements (see paras. 65 and 147(a)).
3.    The government has eliminated export permits for wheat,. sorghum,
feedstuffe, ,rley, soybean, copra, cartamo, cotton seed, tobacco, eggs,
coffee, rice, sesame, sunflower, vegetable oil (oilseed oils), beef and
cattle on the hoof (see paras. 65 and 147(b).
4.    The government has eliminated export taxes for raw cotton, cotton fibre,
and swine for breeding (see paras. 65 and 147 (c)).
5.    The government will present to the Bank a study which identifies
processes, legislation and regulations that give SARH and other
government entities the power to establish, coordinate and enforce crop
production targets (see paras. 76 and 147 (d)).
Dated Covenants
Not later than September 30, 1991s (a) based on the study the government
will present a satisfactory action plan to eliminate and dismantle
processes and regulations that enforce the system of crop production
targets (paras. 76 and 147)1 and (b) the government will eliminate
.import permits for green coffee (paras. 65(k) and 147).



-  104  -                        Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
lamand Sa
1.    Price. Trade Policy and Markot Reaulations
(a)   Output Markets
(i)  Implement action plan agreed upon, that iss
a.    implement a system which will eliminate CONASUPO's
monopoly on imports of powdered milk, and allocate
import permits in a transparent, competitive and
efficient basis (paras. 65(a) and 149(a)(i)a.)p
b.    eliminate all export permits for fluid milk, and
powdered milk (paras. 65(b) and 149(a)(i)a.);
c.    allow for prices of tobacco to be freely determined by
the market (paras. 65(c) and 149(a)(i)a.),
d.    not to have increased the nominal protection for wheat
above its level existing in May 1, 1991 (pares. 65(d)
and 149(a)(i)a.)g
S.    flexibilize prices for cookies, pasta, edible oils,
cigarettes, eggs, beef and dairy products (paras.
65(e) and 149(a)(i)a.)
f.    not to have increased the guarantee price of maize to
a level over its equivalent real U.S. dollar value for
the Autumn-Winter cycle of 1990/1991 (paras. 65(f) and
149(a)(i)a. )
g.    not to have increased the domestic price of sugar
above its equivalent real U.S. dollar value in
January 1, 1991 (paras. 65(g) and 149(a)(i)a.)s
h.    not to have Lncreased the nominal price of barley for
the period June 1, 1991 to January 31,1992 above the
level of 680,000 pesos per ton, and have set the
nominal price of barley for the period February 1,
1992 to January 31, 1993 at a level not to exceed
714,000 pesos per ton (pares. 65(h) and 149(a)(L)a.);
i.    discuss with the Bank the results of the sugar study
and based on such discussions approve a policy for the
sugar sector (paras. 65(i) and 149(a)(i)a.):
j.    agree    an action plan that follows from the edible
beans market study (paras. 65(j) and 149(a)(L)a.); and
k.   elimiq4te import permits for green coffee not later
than  b etsmber 30, 1991 (paras. 65(k) and
149(a)(LI)a.).



-  105  -                         Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
(b)   Input Markets and Health Regulations
(i) eliminate restrictions that impede private sector
competition to PRONASE, PRONASE's monopoly of germplasm
produced by INIFAP and limits on plant breeding by the
private sector (paras. 66 (a) and 149(ii)c.);
(ii) maintain policy of allowing prices of pesticides to be
freely determined by the market (paras. 66 (b) and
149(ii)a.)u and
(iii) reach agreement on action plans to implement recommendations
of the studies on animal health, plant protection, and
quality control of pesticides. Rules and regulations would
be based strictly on quality control, health,
epidemiological, phytosanitary and onvironmental protection
grounds (paras. 66 (c) and 149(ii)b.).
2.    SARR's Production Taraets
(i)   Implement actions agreed upon to eliminate and dismantle
processes, legislation and regulations that enforce the system of
crop production targets (paras. 76 and 149(b)).
3.    Public Exgenditure
(I)   Provision of satisfactory evidence that the level and composition
of budgeted agrLcultural expenditure presented to Congress in the
1992 budget Is consistent with the macroeconomic program and with
an efficient allocation of Government resources at the sector
level (paras. 83 and 149(a)).
4.    Food Consumotion and Nutrition
(i)   Present evaluation of food and nutrition programs as agreed to in
the implementation plan of the monitoring and evaluation system
(MES) (para. 110(a) and 149(d)(i)); and
(ii)  agree with the Bank on general and agencies' action plans for
1993-1994 (para. 110(b) and 149(d)(iU))).



UNITED   STATES   OF   AMERICA
W AA  isi'       S a           NI                        Ur   .
XAXfORNIA /\'\ 0
0   W  '  t\/                         ,>r ~~~~~~~~~~, ~M E X I C 
% Natioaml capital
State c0aIls (Malntenacc dlatct tual:1qUortersI
C *' A>  I )   \  \                           AP Nicipal cities a n tOWiS
tAJA      D>,           V>,,udud  l       f                \        f                g    S  44                                                    _   ii-ided highays
.CAWIORNIA >,                        St                            XuX                     viS   nrr
- Solectd" twin .ros
Pa,ml ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Rallroads
Rivers
4,  ,ri irs pots
,r,^0   4    \  XJ   : -   <      tg;7i M              ato                                    - - State bsdories
intes,,otiosal hosdedoio
X                <ocon ~~~~~~~~D V t A N G p                 4 ,         A     'S I
<\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A4U SAit t  I
D. n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P ZACA  CA'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aeia  YUAT
Mat~~~~~~~~~~ SAN W                                                                                UAEAL
to.                                                                                                                                                                          .       5~~~~~~~~~~~C..S.L
Coa.pocko                       - ODUA
4.  OUM5tANA P Id.
-IV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
fRiERO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Tap*c                 ~~~HONDURAS
"__S_W_-w_~ "R_  It  }  T too.



