Document of
The World- Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6412-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (CHINA INVESTMENT BANK IV)
January 29, 1987
IDF Division
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This documnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank mutborlzatior.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Currency Unit = Yuan Renminbi Y)
1981    1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Y per $, year average        1.70    1.89   1.98   2.32   2.96   3.45
December 1985    Y 3.20 = $1.0
Y 1.00 = $0.31
December 1986    Y 3.69 = $1.0
Y 1.00 = $0.27
(In this report $ refers to US$)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC     -   Agricultural Bank of China
BOC     -   Bank of China
CIB     -   China Investment Bank
CITIC   -   China International Trust and Investment Corporation
CNTIC   -   China National Technical Import Corporation
DFC     -   Development Finance Company
EDI     -   Economic Development Institute
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
ICBC    -   Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
LIT     -   Limited International Tendering
MOF     -   Ministry of Finance
PBC     -   People's Bank of China (the Central Bank)
PCBC    -   People's Construction Bank of China
RCC     -   Rural Credit Cooperatives
SEC     -   State Economic Commission
SPC     -   State Planning Commission
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Programme



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
CHINA
FOURTH 1NDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (CIB IV)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan/Credit and Project Summary .......................o.***.**..***00      iv
I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR .......................................          1
A.  Structure and Performance. .............. 0.00.00. 0000-0-.0-     1
B.  Constraints on Performance and Growth....................         3
C.  Government Policies and Objectives ......................         5
D.  Bank Group Strategy for Industry .........................        6
II.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ..............     ...........................
A.  Institutional Framework ..... 000000..0 ..0.0.000... .e000000     7
B. Interest Rates. 0000000000000 0000000.0.00...00...0..000.000       9
C.  Investment Planning and Financing........................        10
D.  Foreign Exchange Landing for Investment..................        11
III.  THE PROPOSED PROJECT ................000000....                      12
A.  Project Objectives and Components ........................       12
B.  CID's Institutional Aspects.............................**       13
C.  CIB's Operational and Financial Position.................        19
IV.  THE BANK LOAN AnD TDA CREDIT ..............    ................ ...  23
A.  Main Features of the Loan/Cred&t........................         23
B.  Procurement and Disbsursements.....* .........     .0 ..... ...*.   25
C.  Reporting and Auditing Requirements ......................       26
D.  Benefits and Risks ..... .... **-0-0 ..                      ..... 26
V.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS          .....................        27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, composed of
Zafar Shah Khan (Mission Leader), Jayarajan Chanmugam, Edgar Su, and
Victor Chang (consultant), which visited China in July 1986.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
ANNEXES
CHART
MAP
IBRD-20187 China - Fourth Industrial Credit Project



- Mii -
CHINA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (CIB IV)
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:           China Investment Bank (CIB)
Amount:                $300.0 million equivalent, comprising $250.0 million
equivalent IBRD and SDR 40.9 million ($50 million
equivalent) IDA.
Terms:                 Loan:    20 years, including 5 years grace; standard
variable interest rate.
Credit:  Standard
Relending Terms:       The proceeds of the loan and credit would be onlent to
CIB for 20-year term, including 5-year grace period at a
fixed interest rate of 7.02 p.a.; CIB would pay commit-
ment fees equal to those under the loan and credit. The
government would bear the foreign exchange risk between
the US dollar and (a) the currency pool for the Bank
loan; and (b) the SDR for IDA credit. Subborrowers
would pay a fixed interest rate of 8.52 p.a. and would
bear the foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and
the Yuan.
Project Description:  The project aims to assist in (a) upgrading productivity
and efficiency of small- and medium-scale industries by
importing modern technology, and (b) further institu-
tional strengthening of CIB so that it can effectively
perform as a model development finance institution and a
catalyst in the ongoing reform of the investment design
and selection system in China. The project would also
enhance the capability of CIB to mobilize foreign
currency resources from international capital market to
provide financing for the industrial sector. It is
estimated that about 175 state and collective enter-
prises largely in the light industry sector would
receive subloans for modernization and expansion. The
project risks are minimal and mainly relate to CIB's
continued and successful institution-building and its
future development financing role. However, the
commitment of CIB management to various measures agreed
with the Bank and the close supervision by Bank staff
would ensure satisfactory progress in this area.



- iv -
Estimated
Disbursementz          Bank FY    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
(  l .llioiUY 
Annual                 15.00    66.00  105.00   69.00   33.00   12.00
Cumulative             15.00    81.00  186.00  255.00  288.00  300.00



CHINA
FOURTH INDWUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (CIB Iv)
I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Structure and Performance
1.01      China is one of the world's ten leading industrial preducers and the
provideV of the largest full-time industrial employment. Its industrial
sector - is the most important productive sector and source of development
and represents over one thA;d of GDP. The sector comprises 437,200
enterprises, mostly small _' (99%), employing 63.4 million workers (13% of
China's total labor force). State enterprises constitute the sector's core,
with 64,000 enterprises employing 35.9 million, and producing 74% of total
industrial output. Other industrial enterprises comprise mainly urban and
rural "collective" enterprises; these 352,000 units, with an average
employment of about 50 workers, are responsible for one-fourth of total indus-
trial output. Small private enterprises and village industries have emerged
in recent years as significant producers, with a contribution of 7.5% to total
industrial output. Gross industrial output value of Y875.9 billion
($296 billion equivalent) in 1985 was shared almost equally by light (47%) and
heavy (53%) industry subsectors. Chinese industry produces nearly the full
range of industrial products including machinery. Subsectoral structure is
well balanced, with 12% of industrial output from food industries, 19% from
textiles/clothing, 8% from chemicals, 18% from machine-building, 8% from
metallurgy, and 11% from energy (Annex 1).
1.02      Manufacturing output per worker is low in China.  It averaged
Yll,O9O ($3,960) in 1984, which was only one fourth of the average for middle
income countries and about 4% of that for industrialized economies. Perfor-
mance in terms of overall labor productivity and profit rate varies signifi-
cantly between state and collective enterprises on one hand, and between light
and heavy industries on the other, as illustrated below (details in Annex 2):
1/   In Chinese statistics, industry comprises manufacturing, energy (coal,
petroleum, power) and mining. It is divided between heavy industry
(energy, mining, metallurgy, building materials and most chemical and
engineering industries) and light industry t.extiles and clothing, food
industries, light chemical and metal industries, and miscellaneous).
2/   In China, enterprises are classified as large, medium, or small but the
size (defined in terms of plant capacity or value of fixed assets) varies
from one industry to the other.



-2-
Table 1.1s SELECTED PERFORMANCE INDICATORS OF CHINA INDUSTRY (1984)
Output/  Capital/  Profit & tax    Global produc-
worker   worker    to capital    tivity of factors
(Y)    ---     (X)          (1981 = 100) /b
Average for Industry        11,090     9,620         23.9             n.a.
of which:
State enterprises    14,395    13,460         24.2        109.7-112.5
Collectives           6,570      4,060         22.3            n.a.
of which$
Heavy industry        10,320    12,050         20.3/a     121.0-123.1
Light industry        12,210     6,610         32.1         89.0-94.2
/a   22.1% excl.ding coal industry which has a profit to capital ratio of
2.6%.
/b   For state enterprises only.  First figure based on respective weight of
0.6 for capital and 0.4 for labor, second figure based on reversed
weights.
Source:   Statistical Yearbook of China, 1985.
Light industry, which accounts for only 291 of total operating capital (net
fixed assets and working capital) in the industrial sector, has shown the
highest returns (profits and taxes) on capital. In terms of trends, heavy
industry in recent years (1981-84) has improved its efficiency in the use of
production factors, with labor productivity increasing by 8.5% p.a.; on the
other hand, light industry has had only a marginal increase of 2.1% p,a. in
labor productivity despite large increases in operating capital, and its
global productivity of factors has declined. This reflects the need for
application of more modern and sophisticated technology and improvement of
efficiency in the light industry.
1.03      Growth of industrial output has accelerated, from 8.71 in 1980 to
14.0% each in 1984 and 1985, averaging 11.6% p.a. (in real terms) over the
1981-85 period. The main fuel for growth has been a high rate of capital
accumulation in industry supported by a highly diversified machine-building
sector; in state enterprises alone, investment in industry (including energy)
increased from Y38.04 billion ($22.3 billion) in 1981 to Y65.35 billion
($28.2 billion) in 1984. Light indufitry has received, on an average, 22% of
total industrial investment, and has grown at an average rate of 9.4Z p.a. (in
real terms) over 1981-84. In 1984, output of collective enterprises increased
in real terms by 28%, compared with the growth of state-owned industry by 11%
growth in 1984 was evenly balanced between heavy and light industry, with the
fastest growth in machine-building (in particular power-generating machinery),



- 3 -
consumer durables and construction materials. In 1985, light industry's
growth was slightly faster than heavy industry.
1.04      industrial investments in China are divided into "capital construc-
tion" (i.e., creation of new entities or major expansion of existing enter-
prises) and "technical updating and transformation" (i.e., renewal, moderniza-
tion, and limited expansion of existing facilities). Capital construction,
generally under the supervision of the State Planning Commission (SPC) and
financed largely by budget resources, has focused on heavy industry. Techni-
cal transformation projects, financed principally by enterprises' own funds
av.d bank loans, have been more evenly distributed between light and heavy
industries; industrial collective enterprises have represented on average 9%
only of total manufacturing investments as indicated below (details in
Annex 3):
Table 1.2: MANUFACTURING INVESTMENTS TRENDS
(Y billion)
1982          1983           1984
Heavy manufacturing                      20.05          22.97          27.60
Light industries                         12.65          13.03          13.90
Total Manufacturing                 32.70         36.00           41.50
of which:  Capital construction          15.92          15.57          17.56
Technical transformation      16.78         20.43           23.90
of which:
Collective enterprises      3.23          3.08            4.07
Source: China, Statistics Survey, 1985.
1.05      Chinese industry has remained essentially inward-oriented, to meet
the rapidly growing demand of the domestic market for consumer goods in
particular. The export/output ratio averages about 4.7% for manufacturing.
However, exports of manufactured products have grown rapidly in recent years
and reached Y31.6 billion ($13.6 billion) in 1984 (+27%), with light indus-
tries showing more rapid growth (+34%). Imports of manufactured products,
which until 1983 were maintained below manufacturing exports, increased by 64%
in 1984 to reach Y50.4 billion ($21.7 billion), mainly as a result of the big
increase (4114%) in imports of machinery and transport equipment generated by
the ongoing program of industrial modernization.
B. Constraints on Performance and Growth
1.06      Notwithstanding its remarkable growth and product-coverage perfor-
mance, the development of China's manufacturing sector has remained



-4-
constrained by industry-spec;fic shorccomings and issues, which can be grouped
in the following two broad categories:
(a) the use of outmoded plants and technologies, resulting in high con-
sumption of raw materials and energy; and
(b)  an uncoordinated system of centralized planning and decision-making,
combined with a distorted structure of industrial prices.
1.07      About 80% of industrial fixed assets are of pre-1960 vintages,3/ and
the bulk of these assets need to be replaced to ensure technical efficiency.
,At present, total consumption of raw materials and energy has represented on
an average 85Z of manufacturing production costs, equivalent to about 68X of
gross output value; light industries with an input/output ratio of 70% have
been more inefficient than heavy manufacturing (ratio of 65%). There has been
also a lack of incentives for efficient use of inputs due to uneconomically
low prices of energy supplies and basic industrial intermediates (para. 1.10).
1.08      Chinese indtstrial organization is characterized by planned produc-
tion, decentralized control and poor communications, which create a highly
complex and diversified system. All enterprises come under one of the subsec-
toral ministries which supervise them through provincial or county-level
bureaus. Interministerial activities are coordinated by the State Planning
Commission (SPC) and the State Economic Commission (SEC) and their provincial
bureaus. The primary instrument for economic consistency and coordination is
the annual plan, which sets production targets and allocates quotas for key
commodities through an iterative process between the enterprises and SPC.
However, the availability and dissemination of relevant statistics and infor-
mation through these vertical channels are often insufficient for effective
detailed planning, and horizontal links between ministries and enterprises at
the central and provincial levels are inadequate. As a result, supply and
demand are often mismatched, and shortages of key inputs (e.g., energy sup-
plies, raw materials, transport, qualified managers and engineers) constraIri
production. Moreover, the overemphasis put on self-sufficiency at national
and provincial levels during the past decades and the presence of administra-
tive barriers to trade betveen regions have sacrificed the benefits of spe-
cialized production and economies of scale, and permitted the installation of
costly plants with uneconomic size. Finally, the excessive focus of the plans
on physical output and quantitative targets, compounded by inadequate links
with users, have often led enterprises to neglect product quality and variety
and to continue producing substandard or outdated goods.
1.09      As many prices were set in tkhe 1950s (by the central or provincial
authorities) and have changed little since then, the structure of industrial
prices is often at variance with today's production costs or market scar-
cities. In general, consumer goods of light industries are priced relatively
3/   Keeping outdated assets in operation has been due partly to the use of
unusually low and nondifferentiated rates of depreciation, and to China's
past isolation from technological developments in the Western world.



- 5 -
high compared to basic, intermediate, and machinery products of heavy indus-
try. Many enterprises have thus a strong incentive to favor the inclusion of
more profitable and higher priced products in their projects, irrespective of
their viability and production scale.
1.10      Continuing efforts and policy reforms are needed to remove the con-
straints on further industrial development. Heavy industry growth is con-
strained by the availability of domestic energy (likely to expand less quickly
than in the past), and that of light industry by raw material availability.
The basis of industrial growth will therefore have to shift from capital accu-
mulation to efficient use of available inputs, in order to free more resources
for other sectors (e.g., transport) and consumption. At the same time,
industry must remain a principal source of employment, and seek to expand
exports in more competitive world markets to pay for imports of modern foreign
technology and machinery. Also, the sector must respond to rising living
standards and a more sophisticated consumers' demand through improved quality
and variety of industrial produccs, as well as expanded production volume.
The trantition from extensive to intensive (productivity based) growth and
from quantity to quality requires reforms, if industry is to grow at above 7%
p.a. as targeted by the current Seventh Five-Year Plan.
1.11      Efficient and rapid industrial development will largely depend on
innovation, hence on reform progress and technology transfer. However, direct
technology transfer through imports may be constrained in future by China's
export gains in face of protectionist measures in industrialized countries
against light industry goods. Thus, China will have to rely more on technol-
ogy transfer through foreign borrowings and direct investment, on technology
diffusion among domestic firms, and on further modernization of its capital
goods industries.
C. Government Policies and Objectives
1.12      The Chinese Government has been quite aware of the industrial
sector's shortcomings, in particular its production inefficiencies and its
technological backwardness. It has followed since 1979 an economic strategy
based on two elements, i.e., readjustment and system reform, to correct some
of the fundamental weaknesses and lay a sounder basis for sustained growth.
The readjustment has emphasized the following priorities:
(a)  above all, technical updating of existing enterprises, particularly
through importation of foreign technology;
(b) development of more efficient light (consumer) iaidustry and of
manufactured exports; and
(c)  energy and materials conservation, particularly in heavy industry.
The adjustment has been rather successful, particularly in shifting emphasis
towards light industry (which helped reduce energy consumption) and in
shifting investments from new capital construction towards modernization
projects (paris. 1.03 and 1.05). These priorities have been reiterated in the
general orientations for the Seventh Plan for 1986-90.



-6-
1.13      The Government approved in October 1984 a broad framework for the
industrial reform, to be progressively implemented over the coming years. The
main thrust of the reform is to decentralize economic decision-making and to
separate it from administration and to rely more on the market to provide
incentives and to guide decisions. In this context, the following main
deLiSions have been taken:
(a) state enterprises will be made independent units pursuing profits
and responsible for losses. This is a difficult task and will
require, intee alia, clearer separation of economic activities from
administrative functions and of enterprises from line agencies.
Already, greater freedom has been given to collective enterprisee,
which have been the most dynamic segment of the sector in 1984 and
1985 (para. 1.03);
(b) the tax system will be improved, finance and banking will be
reformed, and a larger role will be given to indirect macroeconomic
regulation. Already, nearly all state enterprises pay a profit and
"adjustment" tax (instead of full profit remittance to the govern-
ment), and have greater freedom in production, pricing and marketing
of output above their mandatory plan targets. Moreover, the role
and autonomy of the banking system has been increased, and capital
construction investments have been largely shifted from grant to
loan financing (para. 2.09);
(c) a more rational price system will be introduced by reducing the role
of state-controlled prices and increasing the role of free market-
prices. A two-tier price system han been established. The supply
of key products subject to mandatory plan allocation and to adminis-
trative prices is shrinking, while a growing and substantial share
is allocated by the market mechanism at flexible prices; and
(d) the scope of mandatory planning wi'l be reduced and replaced by
indicative planning, with focus on medium- and long-term guidance.
There would be a cautious movement in this direction because the
immediate effects of the first measures and of control loosening in
1985 were an upsurge of inflation and overheating of the economy,
and China still has to develop the macroeconomic tools (credit, tax-
ation, pricing) to manage and fine-tune its emerging market economy.
D. Bank Group Strategy for Industry
1.14      The Bank Group's primary objectives in its economic and lending work
for industry in China, based on China's needs and the Bank Group's abilities,
have beeu to assist the Government to:
(a) build up sound institutions and practices for project appraisal,
investment finance, and subsectoral planning;
(b) promote and implement technology upgrading and energy/material-
conservation throughout the sector; and
(c) carry out reforms in the financial sector.



- 7 -
The Bank Group has used various forms and channels for assistance to Chinese
industry. It is the executing agencv for UNDP technical assistance projects
and has financed two technical cooperation credits, and has, thus, encouraged
the use of technical assistance, particularly for project preparation. EDI's
large training program in China (in the period 1980-85, about 1,500 Chinese
officials attended 35 EDI courses) and the p*st lending program have helped in
improving investment efficiency in China by demonstrating how the Bank Group's
appraisal methodology can be applied to improve project selection and effi-
ciency of project design and by strengthening institutions' project prepa-
ration and appraisal capacities.
1.15      As regards direct project assistance, a loan for plant rehabilita-
tion and modernization (with particular emphasis on energy savings) for the
chemical fertilizer industry was approved in 'Y85. Other industrial projects
under consideration would support the modernization of the machine tool
subsector in Shanghai, and aasist in upgrading technology in cement produc-
tion. DFC-type lending has been an effective means of assisting the moderni-
zation of small- and medium-scale industries based on a methodical project
appraisal. The Bank Group has assisted in the establishment and institutional
strengthening of the China Investment Bank (CIB), a DFC, and has provided
three industrial credits (para 3.05) for the above purpose. The utilization
of these credits is generally satisfactory (paras. 3.23 and 3.24) and CIB has
made considerable progress sLsLce its foundation (paras. 3.02, 3.22, 3.26 and
3.27). The proposed fourth industrial credit to CIB (CIB IV) would pursue the
same objective. Another project is being developed to support the development
of rural light industries in Gansu. one of the poorer provinces of China.
This assistance would be provited through the provincial investment and trust
company. In future, the Bank Group plans to gradually diversify its
assistance by increasing subsectoral focus and supporting additional financial
intermediaries.
1.16      The Bank Group has also initiated economic and sector work related
to industry and finance. State enterprise management has been studied through
the collaborative research program, and a similar study on collective enter-
prises is under preparation. A major study of the financial system and
investment has been completed recently and will be discussed shortly with the
Government. A study of foreign trade, including industrial exports, is
underway. In addition, the Bank Group and the Government have agreed to a
study of the engineering industry in FY87. The current dialogue on macro and
sector issues will also be maintained and, in this context, price reform and
the development and use of indirect control instruments will receive a major
focus, in close consultation with the IMF.
II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Institutional Framework
2.01      China's banking system consists of a small number of nationwide spe-
cialized banks with extensive branch networks, under the supervision of the
People's Bank of China (PBC) which serves as the country's central bank. PBC



x 8 -
is responsible also for consolidating the credit plans of the specialized
banks, implementing credit plans through redeposit requirements and loans to
the specialized banks, proposing banking regulations and interest rates,
supervising foreign financial dealings and the use of foreign exchange, and
chairing the Council of the People's Bank of China, an advisory and coordina-
ting body consisting of the leaders of all banks and other financial insti-
tutions. Because a separate central bank is a very recent development in
China's financial system (formally established only at the beginning of'1984),
both institutional articulation and development of instruments of monetary
control are still incomplete. Certain policy changes in early 1985 appear to
have strengthened the ability of PBC to monitor and restrict credit issuance
by the various specialized banks.
2.02      The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) was established
at the beginning of 1984 and took over the commercial banking functions origi-
nally exercised by PBC. It serves as a savings bank for urban residents, as a
commercial bank and source of working capital for most urban enterprises, and
in a limited way as an investment bank financing expansion and modernization
projects of urban state and collective enterprises. It also provides funding
for the increasing number of individual enterprises in urban areas (mostly in
commerce and other services). The Bank of China (BOC) also under the aegis of
PBC, serves as a commercial banl for foreign trade units for most foreign
exchange transactions, and as an investment bank providing loans in foreign
exchange and some financing of complementary domestic investment costs. The
Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) performs functions similar to ICBC's but
serves mainly China's rural areas. It also supervises the nationwide nQtwork
of Rural Credit Cooperatives (RCCs), which handle the banking business of most
of China's peasants and many rural enterprises as well. The People's
Construction Bank of China (PCBC), under the aegis of the Ministry of Finance,
is the nation's investment bank specialized in financing capital construction
projects with budget appropriations and loans; it also handles commercial
banking business for China's construction industry. The China Investment Bank
(CIB), created in 1981 under the aegis of the Ministry of Finance and PCBC, is
the only industrial development finance institution in China which bases its
investment decisions on generally accepted project appraisal criteria; it
provides foreign exchange and local currency long-term loans essentially to
technical transformation projects in urban light industries. While different
banks are specialized in terms of activities and clientele, thkere is some
overlap, particularly in financing of fixed investment in industry. This
overlap is leading to increasing competition among different banks to finance
attractive industrial projects.
2.03      Other smaller or secondary financial institutions include most pro-
minently the People's Insurance Company of China (PICC); and the China Inter-
national Trust and Investment Corporation (CITIC), which provides capital and
"middleman" services to joint ventures. Analogues of CITIC exist in many
provinces. Provincial branches of specialized banks have also set up domestic
trust and investment departments or subsidiaries for investments which would
be difficult for the parent banks to undertake. Most recently, many urban
collective credit cooperatives have appeared, financed by small groups of
people pooling capital.



-9-
B. Interest Rates
2.04      Nearly all domestic interest rates in China are set by administra-
tive decree, with some variation per'ditted within an allowed band. The pres-
ent structure of interest rates for the main types of loans and deposits is
presented in Annex 5.  The changes made in 1985 are ttLe most recent of a
series of rate adjustments designed to make enterprises more conscious of the
cost of capital and to make deposits a more attractive form of saving for
individuals. One important effect of the recent change has been to generate a
more normal term structure of domestic interest rates, with a rising yield
curve; in particular, working capital loans now carry an interest rate not
higher than loans for fixed investment projects.
2.05      Foreign exchange loans in China carry many different interest rates,
ranging !rom near zero to world market rates.  These rates appear to be based
largely ,n the cost of different sources of foreign capital. The Bank of
China provides some loans at an interest rate that fluctuates with LIBOR. Its
present six-monthly adjustable interest rate (effective October 1986) is 7.43%
for 5-year US dollar denominated loans. BOC also lends substantial amounts at
low subsidized rates out of special allocations made by the Government for
specific high priority projects. Moreover, large amounts of capital goods
imports are financed by domestic currency loans converted into foreign
exchange from central or local government resources; borrowers do not have to
repay such loans in foreign exchange and bear no risk of exchange rate fluctu-
ations. The China Investment Bank, which makes medium-term loans at fixed
interest rates, had maintained a foreign exchange lending rate of 8% p.a.
since its establishment but it was increased to 8.5% in 1986; this rate will
also be applicable to CIB IV (paras. 4.01 and 4.02). Foreign capital from
concessionary bi-lateral sources is generally passed on to Chinese project
entities at the same interest rate that China pays to the foreign lender.
2.06      Efforts to unify the structure of interest rates across different
banks have been relatively successful in the area of deposit rates and domes-
tic currency loans for modernization projects. However, there has been very
little progress in unifying rates for foreign exchange loans, and in narrowing
the gap in interest rates between capital construction loans (2.4-4.2% p.a.)
and bank loans for other investment projects (7.9-10.8%). Finally, directed
credit schemes carrying subsidized interest rates have proliferated since
1984, in particular in Shanghai and Tianjin, and the share of loans made at
the posted rates has declined somewhat. For example, in Fujian Province,
about 40% of total Bank of China foreign exchange lending in 1984 consisted of
loans at a subsidized rate of 2% p.a.; in Jiangsu Province, similar foreign
exchange loans by the Bank of China (carrying a subsidized interest rate of 4%
p.a.) were started in 1984 and are estimated at about 30% of total loan
approvals in 1985. The Bank study of the financial system and investment in
China addresses, inter alia, the role and structure of interest rates, and
will form the basis of further dialogue with Chinese authorities on this
subject (para. 1.16).



- 10 -
C. Investment Planning and Financing
2.07      Investment planning in China's state sector is centered around the
project preparation and approval process. Although gradually changing, it is
characterized by a short time horizon, incomplete coverage and neglect of sec-
tor planning. Planning techniques are not very sophisticated and aim primar-
ily at achieving consistency rather than optimization, though even consistency
has been an elusive goal in an environment of excess investment demand.
Investment proposals must go through a number of approval stages. Approval
authority is vested in the State Planning Commission for capital construction
projects, and the State Economic Commission for modernization projects; their
provincial and local branches are allowed to approve projects within certain
free limits (specified in terms of estimated total project investment cost).
A crucial stage in the project approval process is the project's inclusion in
the plan (annual or pluriannual, aggregate or regional), which essentially
sets investment ceilings within which projects must vie for a position.
2.08      Another crucial stage of the project approval process is the
approval and commitment of project financing which is the main constraint on
the enterprises' investments; once financing is arranged, approval of a proj-
ect is relatively easy. The interaction between investment planning and
financing is complex; patterns vary across subsectors and industries and
between different provinces of China; in some provinces, banks play an impor-
tant part at an early stage in project evaluation and even in their design,
while in other regions banks are brought in just before project inclusion in
the plan.
2.09      There have been major changes in the financing structure of fixed
investment izr China's state sector (Annex 6). The share of the budget appro-
priations fell sharply from 66% in 1978 to 351 in 1984. Correspondingly, the
share of self-financing by enterprises, local authorities, and other agencies
rose from 32% in 1978 to 431 in 1984. Domestic-currency bank loans, negligi-
ble in the late 1970s# have been financing an increasing share, reaching about
15% in recent years; foreign loans, also negligible in the late 1970st accoun-
ted for 6-71 of the total in 1982-84. Enterprises' funds (retained profits
and depreciation, and major funds) represented a major portion of self-
financed investment, and local governments, and government agencies provided a
smaller proportion (about 34%). Patterns of financing have been different
between capital construction and modernization investment. Domestic loans
have accounted for a larger share of modernization investment than of capital
construction investment (22% versus 13% in 1982). The major difference
relates to the relative shares of budgetary appropriations and self financing;
appropriations accounted for about half of total capital construction invest-
ment in 1982 but only 11% of modernization investment while self financing
comprised nearly two-thirds of total modernization investment but only one-
third of capital construction investment.
2.10      In the state-owned industrial sector, most enterprises have relied
on internal sources to finance over half of their total fixed investments with
greater reliance on accumulated depreciation than on retained profits. The



- 11 -
share of budget appropriations has been relatively low.41 Recourse to loans
varies greatly across enterprises, industrial subsectors, and regions, with
enterprise financial profitability appearing to be an important determinant.
Working capital is financed differently from fixed investment. Though many
industrial enterprises had large amounts of working capital financed by budge-
tary grants, virtually no additional appropriations have been made in recent
years to industry for this purpose and enterprises have relied on loans for
their working capital needs. However, the norms determining the ceilings on
such borrowing have been to a large extent historically based, and thus tend
to provide a considerable cushion above minimum needs. Furthermore, working
capital loans cover whatever purchases an enterprise may mak1,i, including
purchases of inferior goods which necessitate periodic write-offs of
circulating assets.
D. Foreign Exchange Lending for Investment
2.11      The Bank of China is the primary source of foreign exchange loans
for Chinese enterprises. Its foreign exchange loan approvals were $3.25 bil-
lion in 1984 and $3.36 billion in 1985; disbursements being $2.1 billion and
$3.25 billion respectively in the two years. CIB's loan approvals were
$66.2 million in 1984 and $295.3 million in 1985; a small fraction of BOC's
approvals. Substantial financing of imported equipment is also made through
conversion of domestic currency loans from PCBC and ICBC into foreign exchange
sing government resources.
2.12      The complex structure of interest rates for foreign exchange loans
in China has been discussed in paras. 2.05 and 2.06. Other unusual features
of the foreign exchange lending system, which are directly relevant to CIB
operations, include mainly the issue of loan repayment in foreign exchange and
the foreign exchange retention system. Project entities borrowing from cer-
tain sources of foreign exchange must repay in foreign currency, from either
their own export earnings or those of a parent or other related organization
having foreign exchange. This applies broadly to World Bank-financed projects
in sectors like industry, transportation and energy, CIB loans, and the
majority of BOC loans. However, other projects, financed under special or
directed credit programs, often on concessional terms may be exempt from this
requirement; this includes BOC special loans and to many of the domestic loans
"converted" into foreign exchange to finance imports with government authori-
zation. The requirement of repayment in foreign exchange is a heavy burden on
investment projects with a large import component which do not generate
foreign exchange directly through exports. Even if they have high economic
and financial rates of return, such proje_ts have greater difficulty in
obtaining financing. Enterprises prefer to obtain foreign exchange loans that
are exempt from the repayment requirement rather than to borrow from sources,
such as CIB, which demand repayment in foreign exchange.
4/   This is because the bulk of budgetary appropriations for fixed investment
go to large projects involving the creation of new enterprises rather
than projects undertaken by existing enterprises.



- 12 -
2.13      Compartmentalization of China's foreign exchange allocation system
is exacerbated by the foreign exchange retention system. In order to promote
exports, local governments and to a lesser extent enterprises were permitted
to retain a portion of their foreign exchange export earnings, to use prima-
rily in importing capital and producer goods. Other domestic units were given
"quotas" allowing them to draw foreign exchange from BOC to pay for their
imports; however, these quotas cannot be freely traded, so that units without
exports and foreign exchange retention authority cannot have foreign exchange
(needed to repay foreign exchange loans, for example). The system has contri-
buted to excessive compartmentalization and consequently to inefficiencies.
Also, the buildup of huge unredeemed quotas in the hands of lower levels of
government and enterprises may have contributed to the sharp deterioration in
China's external position in 1984/85. These issues are being addressed in the
context of the Bank Group's policy dialogue with the Government; the financial
sector report and the study of foreign trade of China will offer a further
opportunity to discuss them (para. 1.16).
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Components
3.01      The basic purpose of the proposed project is to assist the Govern-
ment to promote and implement technology upgrading and modernization in indus-
try, to build up sound institutions and procedures for project appraisal and
investment financing, and to improve financial intermediation practices. The
project would also further strengthen the role and influence of CIB in the
decision-making process of concerned Government agencies and industrial enter-
prises relating to industrial investments. More specifically, the project
objectives would be to:
(a)  guide and assist CIB in its further institutional development and,
thus, to enable it to efficiently carry out its operations and to
effectively perform its role of a model development finance
institution and catalyst in the ongoing reform of the investment
design and selection system in China; and
(b)  continue financing high priority industrial investments through a
general line of credit, and providing CIB with assistance and guid-
ance in its project selection and appraisal work.
3.02      CIB has received so far three loans/credits from the Bank in an
aggregate amount of $345.6 million equivalent. The last project (CIB III)
approved by the Executive Directors in March 1986, was an interim operation to
meet urgent short-term foreign exchange needs of CIB (para. 3.25). This
fourth loan to CIB was planned in the context of discussions on a number of
institutional changes and issues relating to long-term financial planning.
CIB has now taken several measures for its institutional strengthening and
improved financial planning including the reorganization of the head office in
late 1985, resulting in the establishment of separate departments for
economic, financial and market evaluation, technical appraisal, and
supervision of projects; appointment of a new Vice President in January 1986



- 13 -
to have overall responsibility for lending operations; appointment of a full
time President in August 1986; filling of some of the managerial vacancies;
increase in staff both at head office and branches; training of staff in
financial institutions in other countries; preparation of a new financial
management system; introduction of medium-term financial planning, etc.
Additional measures being planned by CIB, in consultation with the Bank, for
its further institutional strenghtening and improvement in financial planning
are included in its operational plan (Annex 7) and described in paras. 3.06,
3.08, 3.16-3.21, and 3.30). During negotiations, appropriate assurances were
obtained from CIB for the implementation of its operational plan.
3.03      The proposed project would comprise of a loan/credit of $300 million
to be made to the People's Republic of China. State Council approval of the
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement would be a condition of
loan/credit effectiveness. The loan/credit would finance the foreign exchange
costs of the following components:
(a) Line of Credit - $299.3 million to CIB for onlending to small- and
medium-sized projects mainly in the light industry; and
(b) Technical Assistance - A technical assistance of $700,000 to support
the implementation of a medium-term program of training abroad for
CIB's staff (para. 3.21).
3.04      All subprojects will use the loan/credit proceeds to finance the
cost of fixed assets, interest during constructioni on subloans and associated
working capital and will meet the following eligibility criteria:
(a)  subprojects will pertain to the manufacturing subsectors;
(b) subprojects in heavy industry will be only for modernization and
energy/material saving;
(c) the beneficiary enterprises will have a satisfactory projected
financial situation; and
(d) the subprojects will have a minimum FRR and ERR of 12%.
Satisfactory assurances were obtained during negotiations on the above
eligibility criteria.
B. CIB's Institutional Aspects
3.05      Establishment.  The Government, with advice and assistance from the
Bank, established the China Investment Bank (CIB) in December 1981, primarily
for financing small- and medium-sized projects for industrial modernization.
It is administratively under the leadership and supervisory responsibility of
MOF. Although there is no apparent parent-subsidiary relationship, CIB
remains closely tied with PCBC at headquarters as well as at provincial branch
levels for assignment of key personnel, administrative services, dealings with
industrial enterprises, joint financing and access to the planning authorities
and technical bureaus. A capital contribution of Y900 million ($243 million



- 14 -
equivalent), representing 22.5X of its authorized share capital, has been paid
in by the Government and the Bank/Association have made three loans/credits,
2226/1313-CHA for $70.6 million equivalent in FY82, 2434/1491-CHA for
$175 million equivalent in FY84, and 2659/1663-CHA for $100 million equivalent
in FY86. CIB has also obtained local currency loans from PCBC.
3.06      Organization.  CIB's head office performs an administrative and
supervisory role for its entire operations. It has six departments--Project
Lending, Technical and Engineering, Supervision and Implementation, Finance
and Accounting, Coordination and Planning, and the General Administration
Office--each headed by a Manager or Deputy Manager (Chart 1). Provincial
branch offices, which have direct responsibility for screening, appraisal and
supervision of projects, have expanded from 3 in 1982 to 19 at present. Some
branches have also established subbranches in the more active areas in a
province.  Each branch office carries out its business in accordance with the
guidelines and policies set by the head office. The organizational structure
of provincial branches follows broadly the same pattern as at the head
office. In accordance with CIB's lending procedures approved by the Ministry
of Finance in April 1983, the project proposals have to receive approval of
CIB and enter its official pipeline before authority is granted by the
provincial authorities for the detailed feasibility studies to be under-
taken. The above approval is given by the head office after the review of
preliminary evaluation of the enterprise and the project done by the branch
office. Subsequently, full appraisal of the project is undertaken by the
branch office. Appraisal reports on all projects are then submitted by the
branch office to the head office for approval. The concerned staff and the
advisers in the head office assist branches in project appraisal as necessary
and also provide comments and advice on draft appraisal reports. After loan
approval, branches undertake project supervision following established
guidelines and submit periodical reports to the head office. The organization
of CIB is generally satisfactory though there is a need to grant limited
authority to branches, based on their individual capability, for decisions on
individual subloans. The delegation of authority to branches for subloan
approval is included in CIB's operational plan (para. 3.02). During
negotiations, CIB confirmed that this authority normally would not be less
than 50% of the free limit to be provided for various branches under CIB IV
(para. 4.04). CIB also needs to establish a separate organizational unit at
the head office for carrying out research and studies relating to the
industrial sector which would have a direct bearing on CIB's operations
(para. 3.19).
3.07      Board, Management and Staff.  CIB's 33-member Board of Directors has
remained structurally the same since 1983; it is chaired by the President of
PCBC and is represented by concerned Government departments and banks. The
Board meets once a year to review and decide on CIB's major policies, annual
plan, financial and operational performance, and foreign borrowings. A
Managing Committee consisting of the Board Chairman, the three Deputy Chairmen
and eight Managing Directors meets from time to time to deal with all other
major matters including loan approvals of Y10 million ($2.7 million
equivalent) or more, foreign borrowings below $50 million and appointment of
senior officials. Loans below Y10 million are approved by the President and
borrowings of above $50 million are approved by the Board..



- 15 -
3.08      Until recently, day-to-day management of CIB head office was the
responsibility of the two Vice Presidents who are also CIB Managing Directors;
the second of these Vice Presidents was appointed in January 1986. They
worked in close coordination under the general guidance of the President who
was also a Vice President of PCBC. In August 1986, CIB appointed a full-time
President as the chief executive officer (CEO). The two Vice Presidents
continue to have the responsibility of supervising specific departments
(Chart 1). Each branch office of CIB is headed by a President (also a Vice
President of the local branch of PCBC) but in general the day-to-day
management rests with a Vice President (exceptions are two branches where
presidents are full time CEOs). For the future, while CIB should maintain
close operational cooperation with PCBP, as it continues to develop, it should
also become more and more administratively independent at the branch level by
having full-time top management which focuses exclusively on CIB affairs.
CIB's operational plan (para. 3.02) therefore, provides for the appointment
of full time presidents at branches in future; this would be accomplished
during 1987-88.
3.09      The total number of staff at the head oifice has increased from
33 in 1984 to 66 in mid-1986. Similarly, the staff at the branches has also
increased from 84 to 490 during the period. The staff includes 77 engineers
and 266 economists/financial analysts, who are directly involved in project
appraisal and supervision work. Middle level managers and professional staff
generally lack advanced financial skills and experience and thus need
intensive training (para. 3.21).
3.10      Activities.  CIB's policy statement allows it to mobilize medium-
and long-term foreign currency resources, to provide investment loans, to
develop consulting services, and to undertake other financial operations (i.e.
equity investments, guarantees, loan syndications, etc.) So far CIB's main
activity has been to borrow in foreign exchange from the Bank Group and to
onlend, together with its local currency funds, to industrial projects. It
has recently borrowed from the international capital market and would be
increasing its reliance on this source (paras. 3.25 and 3.30). CIB's unique
role in China is the evaluation of projects' viability following well founded
methodology, including economic cost-benefit analysis. Consequently, its
gradual upstream involvement in project preparation has begun to contribute to
modifications in project design and scope resulting in optimal utilization of
investments or dropping of economically non-viable projects at an early stage
of preparation, thus saving related costs. Similarly, CIB's increasing
participation in investment deliberations at the provincial level has started
to make an impact on the decisions with wider implications.  Although the
above developmental role of CIB is still very limited, it is expected that
with further development of middle management and professional staff, CIB
would be able to have a much greater impact on this important area of
industrial planning and investment at sectoral, regional, and project levels.
3.11      Policies.  CIB's major operational and financial policies are
outlined in its Policy Statement (Annex 8), and specific areas of emphasis for
the 1986-1988 period are given in its Development Strategy Statement
(Annex 9). The two statements are considered satisfactory and any changes
therein, in future, would be after prior consultation with the Bank. CIB will



- 16 -
continue to focus on small- and medium-sized projects aimed at expansion,
modernization and technical transformation of existing enterprises, particu-
larly in the light industry sector. Its total foreign currency lending to any
one project would not exceed $15 million, and total local currency lending
would not exceed Y30 million ($8.1 million equivalent). For larger projects,
CIB would seek cofinancing with other lending institutions in China or
abroad. CIB lends local currency only in conjunction with foreign exchange,
and only for fixed investment.
3.12      Project Appraisal.  CIB's project appraisal is undertaken in accord-
ance with the Industrial Projects Appraisal Manual whizh was prepared in 1983
with Bank assistance and revised in 1985 mainly to reflect the lessons learnt
in the meantime. The Manual, which has been widely distributed to agencies
outside CIB, is comprehensive and provides detailed guidelines for the evalua-
tion of projects. While considerable progress has been achieved by CIB in the
short time since its inception in evaluating and appraising investment
projects, the quality of appraisal reports continues to be uneven. The
weaknesses are in three main areas. First, there has been a tendency,
particularly by new staff and newer branches, to apply the appraisal manual
guidelines and carry out the appraisal in a mechanical fashion, rather than in
a thoughtful and reflective manner. Judgment still needs to be exercised in
identifying the important issues relative to the subsector, the enterprise and
the project, and then focusing attention on them. Second, in those instances
where directives from the central authorities have dictated the proposed sizes
for projects and markets to be served, appraisal reports have often provided
little or no background as to the rationale for the project design. In such
cases, a substantial amount of investigation and studies have been undertaken
by the central authorities and provide a basis for their decisions; neverthe-
less, CIB has been reluctant to discuss in its appraisal reports the matter
beyond a perfunctory reference. Third, although detailed financial and
economic benefit analyses are provided in CIB's appraisal reports along the
lines prescribed in the appraisal manual, more effort is still needed in eval-
uating the projects' strengths and critical features, and their risks and
effects on the enterprises and on the economy in all cases. Moreover,
financial analysis in project appraisal has in general focused on the project
itself, and the financial situation of the sponsoring enterprise as a whole is
often dealt with inadequately. The above weaknesses in the quality of
appraisal reports reflect not only the inexperience of staff and the rapid
growth of branch offices but also inadequate supervision by some of the branch
managers and insufficient exercise of quality control by the head office. CIB
management is aware of these deficiencies and is taking measures for their
alleviation (paras. 3.15 to 3.21).
3.13      Supervision.  CIB issued in 1983 a comprehensive and satisfactory
Project Supervision Manual for its staff. The Manual covers the full cycle
from loan agreement to project completion report. Supervision work is the
responsibility of branches and their staff makes frequent visits to projects
to assess the progress on their implementation and to review their performance
and operating results after completion. The Supervision and Implementation
Department at the head office monitors the supervision work of branches and
its staff also visits selected subprojects.



- 17 -
3.14      Procurement and Disbursement.  In keeping with national policy, all
procurement financed by CIB can only be undertaken by one of the central or
provincial agencies entrusted with procurement responsibility. CIB's proce-
dures require a reasonable degree of competition, involving a comparison of at
least three quotations from potential suppliers; most of the goods and equip-
ment financed by CIB are procured in this manner. In a few projects involving
relatively straightforward expansion, the specifications and technology of
existing equipment have compelled the procurement of new equipment from the
same supplier. Under Bank Group Credit Lines, CIB requires international
competitive bidding for larger contracts (para. 4.07). Disbursements are
authorized by CIB against submission of appropriate documentation and progress
reports on project implementation and the procedures are satisfactory.
3.15      Institutional Strengthening.  Since its establishment in 1981, CIB
has made considerable progress in its institutional development. It has
adopted effective lending procedures, modern project appraisal techniques and
comprehensive project implementation and supervision guidelines. However, the
large expansion of CIB's branch network and lending operations within a short
period of time have worked against a balanced institutional growth and mainte-
nance of consistent quality standards in operations. CIB has to alleviate
these problems through further institutional development. It has already
taken several measures in this regard (para. 3.02) and additional measures are
described in paras. 3.16-3.21 below.
3.16      As a result of the reorganization of CIB in late 1985 and retirement
of some of the senior managers, the positions of heads of Planning,
Supervision and Technical Departments at CIB's head office are presently
vacant. Although these departments are being managed by senior deputies,
appointment of permanent heads is essential for an effective control and
better guidance to staff. CIB's operational plan (para. 3.02) provides for
the appointment of suitably qualified and experienced persons for the above
vacancies in accordance with a satisfactory timetable. During negotiations,
CIB confirmed that all appointments would be made by June 30, 1987.
3.17      Many of the newly recruited middle level managers and staff are
recent university graduates for whom training is essential. As one of the
measures to cope with this situation, CIB's head office has engaged two part-
time senior advisors, a senior engineer and a professor of economics, to train
staff, to comment on project proposals ara.d to review appraisal reports submit-
ted by branch offices. The senior engineer:. participation in training
programs and advice to the Technical Department's engineers, and through them
to the branches, have been most valuable snd effective. In future, as
indicated in the operational plan (para. 3.02), CIB would have him review
(a) all projects with above $2 million subloans and (b) any project which is
in respect of a sector or technology in which CIB has had limited
experience. In the past, the advisor has reviewed normally projects with
subloans of above $3 million. The senior economic adviser has not, unfortu-
nately, been able to devote the time he was expected to spend with CIB due to
his other professional comnitments. His two assistants, who spend one day per
week at CIB, have made very limited contribution to upgrade the CIB staff
capabilities in the evaluation of economic aspects of projects, particularly
cost-benefit analysis. In order to improve the professional ability of the



- 18 -
rapidly increasing staff of CIB in the important area of economic analysis and
evaluation, the present arrangements need to be reconsidered. As the economic
advisor would be out of the country for one year, he is being temporarily
substituted by another advisor and based on his performance, CIB would
consider possible new arrangements. The Bank staff would follow up on this
matter during project supervision.
3.18      As CIB's financial operations increase in scope and complexity, it
is essential that the functions and responsibilities of the head office's
Finance and Accounting Department should be enhanced and strengthened to pro-
vide prompt accounting and disbursement services, and efficient fund manage-
ment. Also, the activities of the Coordination and Planning Department in
resource planning and mobilization need to be integrated more closely with
lending operations. CIB plans to of set up a more appropriate financial
management information system.  A draft of the proposed system has been
already prepared by CIB staff. It covers detailed procedures and guidelines
for the preparation and consolidation of various periodical plans and reports
at the head office and branches concerning resource mobilization, loan
approvals, commitments and disbursements, income and expenditure, and loan
recoveries. Bank staff has reviewed the proposed system and provided comments
and suggestions to CIB for incorporation in the final version. Additional
experienced staff are considered necessary to ensure that the financial
information system can become fully operational as soon as possible. CIB has
already appointed five additional staff for this purpose and has confirmed
during negotiations that it will appoint one more well experienced staff for
the financial information system and a full time internal auditor by June 30,
1987. The adoption of a financial management information system acceptable to
the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
3.19      CIB had a Survey and Research Department which was mainly respon-
sible for sectoral surveys, compilation of economic data and statistics and
market analysis of projects. As the department was not fully integratred in
normal operations, it was abolished in 1985 and its staff were merged in the
Projects Department. Given the im13rtant role that a Survey and Research
Departmewat plays in a development bank, a better alternative would have been
to maintain its identity, to improve the professional capability of its staff,
and to assign it a more prominent and active role. CIB has now agreed, as
indicated in its operational plan, to establish a separate unit for economic
and research work with a clearly defined role and adequate staff. CIB
confirmed during negotiations that the necessary staff would be appointed by
June 30, 1987.
3.20      In order to cope with the growing level of operations, CIB plans to
increase its staff at the head office by 32 in 1987 and 1988 each to a total
of 130. The staff at the branch offices is also planned to be increased by
132 in 1987 and by 148 in 1988 reaching to a total of 770. This staff size
should be adequate to support CIB's projected operations. The increase in
staff is included in CIB's operational plan (para. 3.02).
3.21      From the start of its operations, CIB has been conscious of the
vital importance of training, in view of the new approaches being introduced
in China for industrial project appraisal and supervision, and the lack of



- 19 -
this kind of experience among CIB and PCBC staff. A start was made under the
auspices of the Bank in 1982 with study tours to DFCs in Pakistan and the
Philippines and several development banking courses given by the Bank's Eco-
nomic Development Institute (EDI). Furthermore, CIB has been organizing in-
house seminars and providing on-the-job training to new staff. In 1985 alone,
237 staff (including middle level managers) attended training seminars mostly
on project appraisal; other topics included accounting principles and foreign
resource mobilization. In addition, 12 staff went to the US (EDI coulse for
development banking trainers), Japan (international finance) and India
(resource mobilization). CIB needs to send more if its experienced staff for
foreign training to deepen their expertise and upgrade its operations by
observing comparable institutions. Besides, one or two years' advanced
academic and practical training abroad for a few staff members (engineers,
economists/financial analysts) would be of immense benefit to the whole
organization, and, in addition, would provide a unique incentive to profes-
sional staff. A program for training abroad in academic or operational
institutions has been prepared by CIB for suitable candidates from the head
office and branches; special training in English has been or is being arranged
for selected staff. During 1986-90, the program foresees sending 38 staff for
practical training for up to six months at selected foreign institutions
including development banks and commercial banks, and 30 staff for advanced
academic training ranging from six months to two years. The total foreign
exchange cost of the training program, including a contingency provision of
$120,000, is estimated at $1.0 million (Annex 7, para. 6). CIB will finance
the training program by using $300,000 provided under CIB I for this purpose
and the balance out of the technical assistance of $700,000 provided in the
proposed project. The content and timetable of the training program is
included in the operational plan of CIB (para. 3.02).
C. CIB's Operations and Financial Position
3.22      Overall.  CIB commenced its operations in 1983 and in the first two
years (1983 and 1984) it approved a total of $116 million in foreign exchange
loans and Y304.2 million in local currency loans (Annex 10). CIB's activity
increased sharply in 1985, with total approvals of $215.3 million in foreign
exchange and Y334 million in local currency. However, total approvals
decreased to $95.5 million and Y109.6 million respectively in the first half
of 1986 due to resource constraint (para. 3.25).  The projeg s financed by CIB
cover a wide range of manufacturing sectors; light industry- was the
predominant subsector with a share of 30% in amount, followed by textiles
(28%), consumer electronics (9X), chemicals (6%), services (5%), machinery
(4%), metallurgical (3%) food processing (3%), and others (12%) (Annex 11,
Table 1). Of the provincial branches, the Jiangsu branch has been the most
active, with an overall share of 24% of total commitments, followed by Tianjin
(14%), Hebei (11%), Henan (8X), Lioaning (7%), Shanghai (7%) and Hubei (6%),
(Annex 11, Table 2).
5/   It includes leather products, footwear, wood products, pulp and paper,
and light engineering goods.



- 20 -
3.23      Utilization of Earlier Loans/Credits.  As of June 30, 1986,
approvals under CIB I and CIB II totaled $238.7 million for 209 subprojects,
of which 131 were subprojects below the free limit established for each CIB
branch (Annex 12). The subprojects from the well-established branches and
industrial centers such as Tianjin, Shanghai, Beijing and Jiangsu have been
significantly larger than in other provinces (Annex 13). The average size of
all the Bank-financed subloans is $1.2 million. The subloans are for 3-10
years, including grace periods from 1 to 3 years. Most subborrowers are state
enterprises, with a few urban collectives. The projected economic rates of
return range from a ninimum of 12% to 45% and the financial rates of eeturn
from 13% to 35%. Subprojects have not contributed to significant employment
creation, because of their focus on more advanced technology, increased compe-
titiveness of the products in the international market, energy conservation
and pollution reduction, while utilizing the existing labor fogce.  CIB III
became effective on July 3, 1986 (para. 3.25) and commitments -  and disburse-
ments amounted to $28.7 million (for 40 subprojects) and $7.4 million
respectively as of September 30, 1986.
3.24      Subproject Implementation and Disbursements.  Implementation of
subprojects under CIB I has been slower than estimated at the time of
appraisal. Procurement contracts were signed many months after Bank approvals
(an average of nine months for some earlier approved subprojects), due
primarily to long technical discussions and negotiations with foreign
suppliers. Foreign exchange for study tours abroad for technical investiga-
tions with potential equipment suppliers could be secured only after Bank
approvals (unless financed by other sources), which delayed decisions on
procurement and therefore final design. Detailed engineering work was also
not initiated until after Bank approval. Civil works were often delayed due
to shortages and problems in allocations of building materials and civil works
designs and the bill of quantities were not finalized until the specifications
of the equipment to be imported had been received by the enterprise.  As a
result, the first disbursements on the subprojects approved in 1983 were made
on average 14 months after Bank approvals and full disbursements required
another 16 months. Thus, even though CIB I was fully committed as scheduled
in March 1985, disbursements have been lagging behind, and amounted to 69% of
the credit/loan amount as of June 30, 1986. They are now projected to
accelerate and complete before the end of 1987, the closing date of CIB I.
The Bank drew CIB's attention to and helped to identify the causes of the slow
pace of disbursement. As a result, the implementation of subprojects under
CIB II is faster. As of June 30, 1986, commitments and disbursements
accounted for about 97Z and 45% respectively of credit/loan amount. CIB now
insists that its borrowers obtain special loans for project preparation or
utilize other sources of foreign exchange to go abroad for technical investi-
gation and to complete as much of the engineering wortn as possible before
subprojects are submitted to the Bank for approval. Nonetheless, the
procedures in China require that detailed designs be undertaken only after the
full foreign currency resources are secured, and efforts are being made by CIB
with the concerned authorities to minimize the procedural dela7s.
6/ This represents the total amount of subloans approved b1y IDA/Bank.



- 21 -
3.25      Roaurce Position.  As of the end of 1985, CIB had received share
capital of "0r million from the Government, of which Y28 million was con-
verted into foreign exchange ($10 million), and borrowed Y420 million from
PCBC, whichl,6as'been fully converted into foreign exchange ($150 million).  In
addi'tion,  jhu Ciovernment has onlent to CIB $245 million received from IBRD/IDA
under CIB ' ond'Cia II.  Since CIB has been using the direct reimbursement
method in disbursing Bank funds, it had to maintain a sizeable amount of
foreign exc4ange funds as working capital. Therefore, most of its foreign
exchange res>irces obtained within China have been used for that purpose and
the balance used for financing its normal lending operations remained small.
Dv4 to sharp iUcrease in loan demand in 1985, CIB II was virtually fully
committed by mid-1985. At the same time, CIB's local currency resources were
exhausted. As a result, CIB's operations in the second half of 1985 were
cirtgiled considerably. By the end of 1985, CIB's foreign exchange commitment
had exceeded {ts toreign exchange resources by $29 million and its local
currency commitments had exceeded its local currency resources by Y219 million
(Atuiev-14)*  The',Bank was aware of the acceleration and had included a larger
loankredit for lending in FY86. However, a number of institutional changes
and issues relating to CIB's longer term financing plans were still under
disc,4ssion. In order to avoid disruption of CIB's operations and to allow
suff4c,ent time to have the changes made and issues satisfactorily resolved,
the Bank Group, at the request of the Government, approved in March 1986 a
6lidging loan (CIB III) of $100 million ($75 million from IBRD and SDR 22.8
mi-I$ion, equivalent to, $25 million, from IDA). The Government also agreed to
^iake additional local currency funds available to CIB. The Sank has been
?  'ncouraging CIB to divirsify its foreign exchange resources and during the
'Iain negotiations fr CIB III, CIB agreed to raise $50 million from the
international cap(tal market in 1986. Accordingly, CIB has raised 10 billion
/ 4,panese Yen, equivalent to approximately $60 million, from the Japanese
capital market. In early 1986, the Chinese Government had also paid in
Y 500 million as share capital increase for CIB. These new resources have
'bn used to meet CIB's short-term requirement, enabling it to carry on its
lending operationst-'<although at a somewhat reduced scale.
3.26      Finar,ci4  Performance.  CIB's net profit reached Y5.7 million in
1984 and Y17.7 mi)i-on in 1985, representing respectively 1.4X and 4.2% of
average equity (Aimex 15). CIB continues to enjoy the five-year tax holiday
until 1987. In 1985, the interest income on loans accounted for 70X of its
total income; the remainder was interest income on deposits. CIB's adminis-
trative expenses in 1985 represented only 0.41 of its total assets and are low
by international standards. CIB's average spread on all foreign exchange and
local currenzy loans in 1985 was around 41. The high spread on local currency
loans (81) Ade out''of cost-free capital resources more than offset the low
spread (G.6Z) on foreign currency loans made out of CIB I and II. However,
the faster increase in foreign currency portfolio in 1986 and subsequent years
would change this situation and necessitate higher spread on foreign currency
loans (para. 3.31). As of the end of 1985, CIB had also set up provisions for
doubtful accounts equal to 0.41 of its loan portfolio. These provisions would
be increased gradually (reaching 1.71 of portfolio by 1990) and should be
adequate to cover any unforeseen loan losses (para. 3.27).



- 22 -
3.27      Financial Position.  Since most of the subprojects are still in an
early phase of implementation and disbursement, CIB's loan portfolio at the
end of 1985 represented only about 621 of its total assets and the remainder
was in liquid form as cash and bank deposits (Annex 16). The quality of
portfolio is considered satisfactory in view of the careful selection of
subprojects, repayment guarantees by provinces, and gradual build-up of provi-
sions for bad and doubtful loans by CIB. CIB's long-term debt to equity ratio
was 1.2sl by end of 1984 and 1.7:1 by end of 1985, well within the 5:1 limit
provided under CIB I and II. CIB's debt service coverage ratio in 1985 was
5.9. The overall financial position of CIB is sound.
3.28      Projected Operations.  CIB's foreign exchange loan approvals in 1985
increased by 225X (from $66 million in 1984 to $215 million in 1985) and its
local currency loan approvals increased by 140% (from Y139 million in 1984 to
Y334 million in 1985). The loan demand has continued to increase but CIB's
loan approvals were projected to decrease slightly (-2Z) in 1986 due to
resource constraint, but would increase by about 9.3Z p.a. in 1987-90
(Annex 10). The local currency loan approvals will increase by 10.7X p.a.
during the same period.
3.29      Project Pipeline.  CIB's pipeline as of June 30, 1986, included 88
proje.ts with estimated foreign exchange requirements of $137.2 million. Not
all the projects presently in the pipeline will turn out to be suitable for
financing by CIB. Appraisals had been completed on 25 of these projects for
total loans of $32 million in foreign exchange.  The subectoral distribution
of the pipeline projects shows that, in terms of amounts, 18.4 are in meanin-
ery and parts, 18.21 in light industry, 14.4% in textiles, 8.71 in elec-
tronics, 8.61 in metallurgical industry, 7.51 in food processing, 61 eaei in
services and chemicals, and 3.3% in pharmaceuticals. The largest concantra-
tion of projects is in Shanghai, Hubei, Jiangsu, and Hebei.
3.30      Future Resource Requirements.  Subloans approvals by CIB against the
bridging loan (CIB III) of $100 million and the funds raised in the Japanese
capital market (around $60 million) are expected to he completed by the end of
1986. In terms of total approvals, there would be a deficit of $30 million in
foreign currency resources of CIB. On the other hand, the local currency
resources would have an uncommitted balance of Y43.3 million. CIB would need
$490 million in 1987-88 to make foreign exchange loan approvals in the two
years, and to meet the resource gap ($30 million) at the end of 1986. CIB
plans to meet these foreign exchange requirements through the proposed loan/
credit (CIB IV) of $300 million (of which $50 million are expected to be used
in early 1989), borrowings of $130 million in the international market, and
relending of foreign exchange loan recoveries of $65.6 million (Annex 17). In
addition, CIB will be able to release $46 million out of its foreign exchange
working capital for lending operations in 1987-88. CIB plans to utilize
similar sources of funds to meet its foreign exchange requirements in sub-
sequent years. CIB's local currency needs will be met by the Government
through share capital increase. CIB is able to plan the raising of its local
currency resources on a disbursement basis because of the preparedness of the
Government to make additional Yuan funds available whenever such needs
arise. The raising of at least $130 million in 1987-88 from the international
market and the utilization of Bank funds over the 2 1/2-year period covered by
the proposed loan is included in CIB's operational plan (para. 3.02).



- 23 -
3.31      Projected Financial Performance and Position.  CIB's projected
income statements for 1986-90 are given in Annex 15. CIB's net income before
taxes would increase from Y29.2 million in 1986 to Y89 million in 1990.
However, the net income after taxes will increase only from Y23.0 million to
Y31.1 million during this period, mainly due to the expiration of 5-year tax
holiday in 1987. The average interest spread of CIB would be 1.4% in 1986 (4%
in 1985) but would gradually increase to 2.91 in 1990 which is satisfactory.
The significant decrease in spread in 1986 is the result of large
disbursements under CIB I and II which have a low net spread of about 0.6% and
the improvement in later years would result from higher onlending rates and
spreads for subsequent loans. Administrative expenses would remain low at
about 0.6Z (Annex 19). The rate of return on average equity would decline
from the range of 3.0-4.2% during 1985-87 to 1.8-2.2% during 1988-90 due to
payment of income taxes starting in 1988. CIB's low return is basically
attributable to the fact that CIB's equity base is extraordinarily large and
the Government does not want CIB to maximize its profit. CIB's projected
balance sheets for 1986-90 are given in Annex 16. CIB's total assets in 1986
would increase sharply due to upward adjustment of the value of foreign
exchange loan portfolio (and foreign debt) resulting from devaluation of Yuan
in July, 1986. During 1987-90, the average growth of its total assets would
be 27.4% a year. CIB's long-term debt would grow by 1081 in 1986 (from
Y635 million in 1985 to Y 1,321.0 million in 1986), and at an average annual
rate of 32% thereafter (from Y 2,114.3 million in 1987 to Y 4,864.9 million in
1990). Long-term debt to equity ratio would change from 1.5:1 in 1985 to
1.9:1 in 1987 and to 2.5:1 in 1990 which would still be well within the limit
of 5:1 as specified in earlier Project Agreements between the Bank and CIB.
The projections indicate that CIB's financial position would remain strong
during 1986-90.
3.32      Accountingand Audit.  CIB's accounting system is based on inter-
national accounting principles. An Accounting Manual incorporating the Bank's
comments has been in u'se since January 1983. CIB's accounts were audited by
the China Consultants of Accounting and Financial Management (CCAFM) for 1983
and 1984 and by the State Audit Administration (SAA) for 1985. SAA has
received technical assistance from the Bank Group for conducting audit in
general and auditing Bank-financed projects in particular. The audits were
performed satisfactorily and the auditors issued unqualified reports.
IV. THE BANK LOAN AND IDA CREDIT
A. Main Features of the Loan/Credit
4.01      Onlending Terms.  The People's Republic of China will be the
borrower of the proposed loan/credit of $300 million equivalent. It will
onlend with the loan and the credit to CIB under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank/Association, the signing of which would be a
condition of loan/credit ef.ectiveness. As under CIB I, II and III, both IDA
and Bank funds would be onlent by the Government to CIB for 20 years including
five years grace, with CIB allowed to rollover the funds. The Government will
charge CIB a fixed interest rate of 7% p.a. and the Banf. and IDA commitment
charges, thus bearing the variable interest risk as under earlier loans/cre-



- 24 -
dits to CIB. CIB will onlend the loan/credit proceeds to the final borrowers
at a fixed interest rate of 8.51 p.a.  The subsidiary loan to CIB and the
subloans will be denominated in US$ valued at the date of withdrawal. The
Government will thus bear the foreign exchange risk between the US$ and (a)
the currency pool index (for the Bank loan portion) and (b) the SDR (for the
IDA credit portion). The subborrowers will carry the foreign exchange risk
between the US$ and the Chinese Yuan. Repayment periodej for subloans will
normally not extend beyond seven years, and the maximum permissible period
will be 12 years. The last date for submission of subloan applications to the
Bank will be June 30, 1989. The closing date of the loan will be June 30,
1992. Assurances on the above terms and conditions were received during
negotiations.
4.02      The onlending rate of 8.5% p.a. would be positive in real terms over
the life of CIB's subloans, given projected world and domestic inflation
rates. China's inflation rate was about 3X p.a. in 1981-84, 8.81 in 1985, and
is projected to be 51 in 1986, 71 in 1987, 6.5Z in 1988-90, and 4.5Z in
1991-95. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that: (a) CIS would
afford the Bank/Association an opportunity to exchange views with it prior to
making any change in its interest rates; and (b) from time to time at the
request of any party, the Government and CIB would exchange views with the
Bank/Association on the interest rates to be charged by CIB in its lending
operations in light of CIB's cost of funds and profitability and of movements
in interest and inflation rates in China and internationally.
4.03      Maximum Subloan Size.  As provided in its Development Strategy
Statement, CIB may onlend in foreign exchange up to $15 million for an indivi-
dual subproject. This limit would enable CIB to be involved in some larger
medium-sized projects where its appraisal under Bank standards would be most
valuable because these projects are likely to involve major technology import,
serve nationwide or internat4onal markets which must be studied, and have many
linkages to other industries. However, the average subloan size is still
estimated at about $1.7 million. Satisfactory assurances were obtained during
negotiations on the maximum subloan size.
4.04      Free Limit.  As agreed under earlier credits/loans to CIB, the free
limit would relate to each branch. Under CIB II and III, Shanghai and Tianjin
branches had a free limit of $2 million and other branches had a free limit of
$1 million. On the basis of quality of appraisal and the size of subprojects
in the pipeline at each branch, it is proposed that the free limit under
CIB IV be set at $2.5 million for Shanghai, Tianjin and Jiangsu branches, and
at $1.5 million for Hebei, Hubei, Fujian, Liaoning, Anhui and Zhejiang
branches. All other branches (10) would continue to have a free limit of
$1 million. Moreover, the first three subprojects proposed to be financed by
a new branch, regardless of size, would be treated as above free limit and
would need the prior approval of the Bank. The aggregate free limit would be
$150 million. Satisfactory assurances were obtained during negotiations on
the free limits. An estimated 353 of subprojects by number and 601 by amount
are expected to be above the free limits.
4.05      Environmental Safeguards.  China has been paying increasing
attention in recent years to environmental issues, and has established



- 25 -
standards and controls for the emission and disposal of the "three wastes"
(liquid, solids, gases) from industry. Feasibility studies for CIB projects
are required to cover environmental aspects, and CIB has given, and will
continue to give, particular attention to it in its appraisal reports, as
would the Bank in reviewing them.
4.06      Debt/Equity Ratio.  CIB is required under CIB I, II and III to
maintain its long-term debt/equity ratio within the maximum limit of 5:1. An
assurance was received during negotiations that the above limit will continue
to be maintained under the proposed loan.
B. Procurement and Disbursements
4.07      Procurement.  Individual contracts of $4 million equivalent and
above would be awarded after international competitive bidding (ICB) has been
carried out according to the Bank Procurement Guidelines. Local bidders would
be granted the standard preference, equivalent to custom/import duties or 15%
of cif cost, whichever is lower. Contracts below $4 million would be awarded
after evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from at least 3
qualified suppliers. Bank's standard review and approval (from bidding docu-
ments to contract awards) would be confined to ICB packages of above $4 mil-
lion. Procurement contracts between $1 and $4 million would be subject to
post-review by the Bank and CIB would maintain all relevant documents in its
records for this purpose. These arrangements were discussed and agreed during
negotiations. Only about half a dozen contracts are expected to exceed
$4 million.
4.08      Disbursements.  Disbursements would be made against standard docu-
mentation for 100% of: (a) foreign expenditures on goods and services for
subprojects; (b) the ex-factory price of locally manufactured equipment
procured through ICB; (c) interest during construction on subloans payable by
an investment enterprise; and (d) expenditures on overseas training.
Disbursements for contracts of or above $200,000 will be made against full
documentation. Disbursements for contracts of less than $200,000 and overseas
training will be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOE), with the full
documentation held by CIB for review by Bank supervision missions. CIB will
submit a monthly SOE giving information on amounts of individual subloans,
amount of payments, prupose of loans, name and address of machinery suppliers,
and the country of origin of the machinery. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by June 30, 1992. The disbursement projections are consistent with
the disbursement profile of DFC lending in the East Asia and Pacific Region
and are given in Annex 20. In order to allow CIB to use more of its own
working capital in foreign exchange for lending purposes, and to facilitate
project disbursements, a Special Account to be maintained in US dollars with
an authorized allocation of US dollars equivalent of SDR 12.3 million would be
established under the loan/credit in a bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Applications for replenishment will be
submitted quarterly or when the amounts withdrawn are equal to 50% of the
initial deposit, whichever comes sooner. The Special Account and the SOE will
be audited separately from CIB's accounts.



- 26 -
C. Reporting and Auditing Requirements
4.09      CIB would submit to the Bank/Association (i) detailed semiannual
reports on its operations and its financial results and situation; (ii)
progress reports on all subprojects under implementation and a list of
subprojects in the pipeline; (iii) an annual audit report on (a) CIB's
accounts and (b) Special Account and Statements of Expenditure audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank/Association, within six months
after the end of e&ch fiscal year; and (iv) a project completion report within
six months after completion of disbursements of CIB IV. Semiannual reports
would also be submitted to the Bank/Association on completed subprojects
during the first three years of subprojects' operations, providing information
on (i) performance of individual subprojects against anticipated construction
and operational targets (project cost, tin1e schedule, production, sales,
exports, and profitability); (ii) reasons for any cost and time overruns and
shortfalls in meeting original targets; and (iii) actions being taken or
proposed to be taken by CIB and/or the project sponsors to improve
performance. Satisfatory understandings were received during negotiations on
reporting and auditing requirements.
D. Benefits and Risks
4.10      CIB is the only development finance institution in China whose
investment decisions are guided by comprehensive appraisal of projects includ-
ing economic cost-benefit analysis. It is still a relatively new institution,
though its growth -- both in terms of organizational structure and level of
operations - has been very rapid. In order to avoid adverse effect of the
rapid growth on the quality of operations, CIB needs to further develop its
management and staff capability, improve its financial planning, strengthen
its management information system, and enhance its resource mobilization
efforts by tapping the international capital markets. The project would help
the institutional strengthening of CIB, particularly in the above areas,
through technical assistance, various measures agreed between the
Bank/Association and CIB during project preparation and supervision by Bank
staff including review of above-free limit subprojects. As CIB's appraisal
and supervision work is of a model nature, the project would also have posi-
tive spillover effect in the long term on central and local planning agencies
and other banks engaged in similar activities in China.
4.11      The main beneficiaries of the credit line would be small- and
medium-sized projects in the light industry category. This industry is rela-
tively more labor-intensive but its labor productivity has shown only a margi-
nal increase and its global productivity of factors has been negative in
recent years. The project would provide foreign exchange for the import of
modern technology which would help to improve the productivity and efficiency
of the light industry. The project would also contribute to material and
energy savings by assistance to subprojects in the heavy industry category.
The total number of beneficiary subprojects is estimated at about 175.
4.12      The direct project-related risks are minimal and mainly relate to
the implementation of institution-building program of CIB. However, the ^om-
mitment of CIB management to various measures agreed with the Bank/Association



- 27 -
and the close supervision by Bank staff would ensure satisfactory progress in
this area. The long-term indirect risks relate to the future role of CIB
which, in turn, is directly influenced by Government's economic reform
policies. The Government has followed more liberal investment and enterprise
management policies since 1979 and they enable CIB to take autonomous
decisions on selection and financing of projects, following generally accepted
evaluation criteria. A reversal in the Government policies is unlikely and
this was reconfirmed by the Government at the time of introduction of the
Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90). The Government's support to CIB is also
evident from the fact that CIB is one of the three financial institutions in
China which have been authorized recently to borrow in foreign exchange from
international capital markets.
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations assurances were received on the following
conditions of loan/credit effectiveness.
(a)  State Council to approve the Development Credit Agreement and the
Loan Agreement (para. 3.02).
(b)  CIB to adopt a financial management information system acceptable to
the Bank Association (para. 3.18).
(c)  The Government and CIB to sign a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
satisfactory to the Bank/Association (para. 4.01).
5.02      Assurances were also received on the following conditions:
(a)  CIB to implement its operation plan (Annex 7) for its further
institutional strengthening and improvement in financial planning
(para. 3.02).
(b)  The Government to onlend the lean/credit proceeds to CIB at a fixed
interest rate of 7Z p.a. (para. 4.01); CIB to onlend to subborrowers
at 8.5Z p.a. (para. 4.01); and the Government and CIB to exchange
views with the Bank/Association on interest rates (para. 4.02).
(c)  Maximum subloan size to be $15 million (para. 4.03); and all
eligible subprojects to pertain to the manufacturing sector, to be
for modernization and energy/material saving if in heavy industry
category, to have a minimum ERR and FRR of 12Z, and to be sponsored
by enterprises with satisfactory projected financial situation
(para. 3.04).
(d)  Free limit to be set at $1.0-$2.5 million depending upon the project
appraisal capability of and the size of project pipeline at each
branch (para. 4.04).
(e)  Last date for subproject submission to the Bank/Association to be
June 30, 1989 (para. 4.01).



- 28 -
(f) Debt/equity ratio of CIB not to exceed 5:1. (para. 4.06).
(g) CIB to meet reporting and auditing requirements (para. 4.09).
5.03      With the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project is
suitable for a Bank loan of $250 million repayable over 20 years (including
five years' grace) and an IDA credit of SDR 40.9 million (equivalent to $50
million) on standard terms to be made to the People's Republic of China and
onlent to CIB.



- 29 -                                 -
CHINA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Structure and PerfGuance of Chinese Industry
(Excluding production brigades and teams)
Gross output (Y bln. 1980 prices)    Ave. growth
1981   1982    1983    1984    z         rate (I)
By Subsector
Food industries             69.01   75.55   79.43   86.58   12.3          9.1
Textiles/clothing          106.18  106.45  116.65  132.13   18i8          9.9
Paper and wood              23.22   24.73   26.25   29.11    4.1          6.9
Miscellaneous               67.88   74.76   83.64  100.60   14.3         14.1
Subtotal light mfg.      266.29  281.49  305.97  348.42   49.5         10.5
Metallurgy                  45.67   48.52   52.37   57.94    8.2          5.2
Building materials          19.51   22.26   24.54   28.73    4.1         10.1
Machine building            77.51   88.21  105.42  128.59   18.3         11.9
Chemicals                   36.59   41.21   46.77   52.40    7.5         10.4
Others                       8.77    9.92   10.50   12.72    1.8           -
Subtotal heavy mfg.    188.05  210.12  239.60  279.38   39.7          8.7
Total Manufacturing    454.34  491.61  545.57  627.80   89.3          9.7
Energy (coal, power, oil)    63.43   66.14   70.87   75.19   10.7           4.2
Total Industry          517.77  557.75  616.44  702.99  100.0         9.0
By Ownership
State-owned                405.44  434.03  474.78  517.12   73.5         6.9
Collectives                108.93  119.28  135.42  175.78   25.0         15.2
Of which urban            32.32   35.43   41.33   53.86    7.7        16.5
Private/others               3.40    4.43    6.24   10.09    1.4        41.3
By Size
Large                      131.66  145.64  161.73  184.22   26.2         9.5
Medium                      91.58  102.74  115.82  131.10   18.6          9.9
Small                      294.53  309.37  338.89  387.67   55.2         8.5
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1985.



30                                ANNEX 2
CHINA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Performance Overview of Chinese Industry
(Independent accounting enterprises only)
A. 1983/84 Situation
Heavy indus-
try (including
energy)      Light industry   _   Total
1       1984     1983    1984      1983 19984_
State Enterprises
Gross output (Y bln)         250.30  279.84   203.25  217.17   453.55  497.01
Capital (Y bln)              336.76  356.14   108.49  119.37   445.25  475.51
Profit and taxes (Y bln)      61.28   70.88    42.00   44.40   103.28  115.28
Work force (million)          23.54   24.04    11.16   11.28    34.70   35.32
Collective Enterprises
Gross output (Y bln)          49.72   62.30    81.62  106.13   131.34  168.43
Capital (Y bln)               37.11   43.39    44.73   55.63    81.84   99.02
Profit and taxes (Y blu)       8.91   10.29    10.49   11.80    19.40   22.09
Work force (million)           8.34    9.17    14.52   15.23    22.86   24.40
B.  1981-84 Factor Indices (state enterprises only)
1981         1982          1983          1984
Heavy Industry:  Ouvput               100        109.4         121.3         135.6
Capital /a          100        104.4         109.6         115.9
Labor               100        103.6         104.3         106.3
Light Industry:  Output               100        104.2         112.2         119.9
Capital /a          100        117.2         135.6         149.2
Labor               100        108.0         111.8         112.8
Total Industry:  Output               100        107.0         117.0         128.2
Capital /a          100        107.1         115.0         122.8
Labor               100        104.6         106.4         108.1
/a Net fixed assets plus circulating fund (i.e., working capital).
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1985.



31                              ANNEX 3
- 31                                    -
CHINA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Manufacturing Investments
(Y billion)
1982            1983             1984
State Enterprises
Capital Construction
Heavy manufacturing                   11.28            11.70            13.32
Light industry                         4.64             3.87             4.24
Subtotal                             15.92            15.57            17.56
Technical Transformation
Heavy manufacturing                    7.16             9.61            12.06
Light industry                         6.39             7.73             7.78
Subtotal                             13.55            17.34            19.84
Collective Enterprises (mainly
technical transfovmmation)
Heavy manufacturing                       1.61            1.66             2.23
Light industry                            1.62            1.42             1.84
Subtotal                              3.23             3.08             4.07
Total                                32.70            35.99            41.48
Of which:
Heavy manufacturing                     20.05            22.97            27.61
Light industry                          12.65            13.02            13.86
Of which:
Capital construction                    15.92            15.57            17.56
Technical transformation                16.78            20.42            23.91
Source: China, A Statistics Survey, 1985.



32                       ~~~~~~~ANNEX 4
- 32-_
CHINA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Money and Credit Outstanding, 1979-84
(Y billion at year-end)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Money
1.  Currency in circulation        26.8    34.6    39.6    43.9    53.0    79.2
2.  Individual demand deposits    7.1    10.6    13.7    16.4    21.8    33.1
3.  Individual time deposits       22.7    31.1    41.1    53.7    69.8    92.9
M1 (1+2)                      33.9    45.2    53.3    60.4    74.8   112.3
M2 (1+2+3)                    56.6    77.3    94.4   114.1   144.6   205.2
4. Enterprise deposits             72.0    88.0   104.6   115.8   129.8   194.4
M3 (1+2+3+4)                 128.6   165.3   199.0   229.9   274.4   399.6
5.  Other deposits                 17.0    27.8    32.1    35.8    64.8    65.8
Total Liquidity (1-5)        145.6   193.1   231.2   265.7   339.2   465.4
Credit Outstanding
Credit to the state budget        9.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    20.0    26.1
State banks /a                  204.0   241.4   276.5   305.2   343.1   415.9
Rural credit cooperatives         4.8      8.2     9.6    12.1    16.4    35.5
Total Credit                 217.8   266.6   303.1   334.3   379.5   477.5
Of which:  To industry            n.a.   83.3    96.9   109.4   128.1        n.a.
Including: Investment credit    n.a.    5.5        8.3    15.2    19.6       n.a.
Working capital       n0a.   77.8    88.6    94.2   108.5        n.a.
Of which:  To enterprises         n.a.   46.4    52.4    56.9    65.7        n.a.
To organizations      n.a.   23.6    24.1    24.0    26.9        n.a.
To collectives        n.a.    7.8    12.1    13.3    15.9        n.a.
la  Excludes credit to the state budget and loans by PCBC (which makes budget-
ary capital construction loans, modernization loans, and working capital
for the construction industry).
Sources: China, A Statistics Survey, 1985; and Statistical Yearbook of China,
1985.



_33-                                ANNEX 5
CHINA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Interest Rate Changes, 1985 /a
Old rate    New rate
Item                                                      (X p.a.)   (Z p.a.)
Individual Deposits
Demand deposits                                            2.88        2.88
Time depositu
6 months                                                 4.32        6.12
1 year                                                   5.76        7.20
3 years                                                  6.84        8.28
5 years                                                  7.92        9.36
8 years                                                  9.00       10.44
Enterprise Deposits
Demand deposits                                            1.80        1.80
Time deposits
1 year                                                   3.60        4.32
2 years                                                  4.32        5.04
3 years                                                  5.04        5.76
Loans
Circulating capital                                        7.20        7.92
Settlement                                                 3.60        3.60
Modernization loans:
Under 1 year                                             5.04        7.92
1-3 years                                                5.76        8.64
3-5 years                                                6,48        9.36
5-10 years                                              (7.20)      10.08
Over 10 years                                           (7.92)      10.80
Foreign exchange loans:
Bank of China /b                                       8.0-9.5      8.5-9.5
China Investment Bank /c                                 8.0          8.0
Capital construction                                     2.4-3.6      2,4-4.2
Loans to urban and rural individual enterprises            8.64     9.36-11.52
La Some of these changes were effective at the end of March, others at the
beginning of August, 1985.
/b Bank of China rates are linked to its borrowing cost in different curren-
cies and have declined in 1986 in line with the international trend.
/c CIB is charging 8.5% rate on CIB III.
Source: People's Bank of China.



_ :4 ,  .;  \ 5  '           ANNES 6
CH1*A 
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Total Fixed IntlI tLAr4   fit4te Sector
by Sou rgt ofino1
(Y bl,i]on and Z share iii% itl)i
State
budget appro-    Enterprises       Dometic                  La-
Briations     & localities       bank loans    Foreign loans
Year     Total   Amount  Shaea  Amount  Share   Amount  Share   Amount  Share
1970    36.808   274718  75.3      8.790  239      0.300   0.8       -       -
1975    54.494   35.085  64.4    18.5i  $14.0      0.890   1.6       -       -
1978    66.872   44.385  66,4    21.539  32.a2    1.108  1t7        0.000   0.0
1979    69.936   42.912  61.4    21.738  31.1      2.486   3.6      2.800   4.0
1980    74.590   33.307  44.7    27.210  36.5      8.703  11.7      5.370   7.2
1981    66.751   25.750  38.6    28.330  42.4      9.062  13.6      3.609   5.4
1982    84.531   26.543  31.4    38.286  45.3    13.690  16.2      6.012   7.1
1983    95.196   33.690  35.4    40*023  42.0    13.572  14.3       6.583   6.9
1984   118.518   41.795  35.3    51.492  43.4    18.249  15.4       6.982   5.9
/a  Includes foreign loans allocated through the state budget, representing
the bulk of the total.
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1985.



- 35 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
CHINA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Opbirjtional Plan of China Investment Rank
CIB is making continued efforts for its further institutional
strengthening and improved financial planning.  It has already taken a number
of measures in ti#s regard in 1985-86. Additional measures to be taken by CIB
are as follows:
Foreign  _uec  Resources
1.       aI accordance with its financial plan, CIB will borrow at least
$60 million equivalent in 1987 and $70 million equivalent in 1988 to meet its
foreign currency needs on the basis of subloan approvals during these years.
Also, CIB will use about $140 million equivalent in 1987 about $109 million
equivalent in 1988 and about $50 million equivalent in early 1989 out of the
loan/credit proceeds of CIB IV to meet its foreign currency needs.
Managerial-and Staff Vacancies
2.        in o*der to strengthen its Head Office staff and improve its
operations, CIB oili. undertake a recruitment program in respect of positions,
and in accordance with a timetable, agreed with the Association and the Bank.
Economic and Research Work
3.        CIS will appoint a separate unit for economic and research work by
June 30, 1987.  The  nit will be responsible mainly for economic and market
evaluation of subprojects, subsector studies and analysis, monitoring of
economic developments in China and abroad with implications for CIB's opera-
tions and portfolio and compiling of data and information on industry and
finance. The unit will be suitably staffed to carry out above functions.
Staffing
4.        In order to cope with the growing level of operations, CIB will
increase its staff at the head office by 32 in 1987 and 1988 each to a total
of 130.  The staff at the branch offices will be increased by 132 in 1987 and
by 148 in 1988 reaching to a total of 770.
Training Program
5.        CIB will use the technical assistance funds of CIB I and IV to carry
out the following training program abroad for its staff:



- 36 -
ANNU 7
Page 2
Year
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
Short-term Training (up to six months)
Number of staff                                  3     5    10    10    10
Number of man-years                            1.0   1.7   3.3   3.3   3.3
Foreign exchange cost ($t000)                   15    25    50    50    50
Long-term Training (six months to two years)
Number of staff                                  4     4      6     8     8
Number of man-years                              8     8    10    10    10
Foreign exchange cost ($'000)                  120   120   150   150   150
Total Program
Number of man-years                            9.0   9.7  13.3  13.3  13.3
Foreign exchange cost ($'000)                  135   145   200   200   200
Subloan Approval Authority to Branches
6.        CIB will delegate authority to branches for subloan approval based
on their individual capability to satisfactorily appraise subprojects.
Full-time Presidents for CIB Branches
7.        In order to enable the top management at branches to focus exclu-
sively on CIB affairs, CIB will gradually appoint full-time presidents at
branches depending upon their level of activity. All branches will have full
time presidents by the end of 1988.
Technical Advisor
8.        The technical advisor will review (a) all projects with subloans of
above $2 million each (instead of the previous limit of $3 million) and
(b) any project which is in respect of a sector or technology in which CIB has
had limited experience.



- 37 -
ANNEX 8
Page I
CHINA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Policy Statement of the China Investment Bank
(Revised in September 1986)
1.        The China Investment Bank (hereinafter called CIB) is designated by
the Chinese Government as a specialized bank to raise resources from abroad in
order to make investment loans. It shares the workload and cooperates with
other financial institutions of the country, in order to accelerate the
socialist modernization program.
2.        CIB's main activities are as follows:
(a)  raising long- and medium-term foreign exchange funds from abroad:
at present, CIB mainly borrows from international institutions (the
World Bank, etc.). It has also commenced borrowing long- and
medium-term foreign exchange funds from other foreign banks; such
borrowings will be gradually increased in future to meet its growing
operations. With the approval of the Government, CIB may also raise
funds by issuing securities abroad;
(b) providing investment loans to domestic enterprises or participating
in equity investment: CIB may use all kinds of borrowed funds and
its own operating funds to make loans and investments which are
normally to finance small- and medium-sized expansion, modernization
and technical transformation projects of existing enterprises. CIB
may also make loans to joint ventures or participate in their equity
investments;
(c) handling World Bank-financed and other foreign financed projects
which are entrusted to CIB by the Ministry of Finance (or any other
government department or a local government) and the World Bank;
(d) gradually undertaking other banking operations according to the
requirements and the possibilities;
(e) gradually developing consultancy services to borrowing units and
other organizations.
3.        CIB shall select projects, make loans and handle other related
operations, under the direction of the overall national construction policy
and national economic plans, and in conformity with the unified financial
policy of the nation and CIB's own operational regulations. The projects
selected by CIB must be incorporated into the nation's fixed asset investment
plan. The borrowing units shall apply to the material supplying units for
required materials in accordance with government regulations, or purchase
materials themselves.



- 38 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
4.        CIB shall select projects on the basis of the following basic.
criteria: the products may be exported to earn foreign exchange or used as
import substitute to save foreign exchange and urgently needed for developing
the national economy; the projects are technically, financially and
economically feasible, are under adequate business management, involve modest
investment cost, yield results quickly, and have the ability to repay both
foreign and local currency loans.
5.        CIB will require the borrowing units to make detailed feasibility
studies before project approval. A loan will be approved only after CIB has
made a thorough review and appraisal of the project and is assured that all
the criteria have been met in accordance with CIB's "Industrial Credit
Projects Appraisal Manual," CIB will make best efforts to further improve the
quality of project appraisal and to select high priority viable projects.
6.        CIB shall make foreign currency investment loans and local currency
investment loans. Foreign currency investment loans will be used mainly for
import of technology and equipment, while local currency loans will cover
local costs of ancillary domestic equipment and construction. In general, the
maximum limit of CIB's foreign currency loan to a single project shall be
US$15 million, and that of local currency loan shall be RMB 30 millio yuan.
For projects which need foreign currency loans exceeding above limits, CIB may
make a loan jointly with other institutions. CIB's total equity investments
shall not exceed 30% of its share capital and reserves. For individual equity
investments, CIB shall limit its shareholding to a maximum of 49% of the
enterprise's share capital.
7.        The ratio of long-term debt of CIB to its equity (including paid-in
capital, legal reserves and retained earnings) shall not exceed 5:1. The
total exposure of CIB in an enterprise shall generally not exceed 20% of CIB's
equity.
8.        The interest rates on foreign currency investment loans shail be at
the borrowing rate plus a reasonable margin. The interest rates on local
currency investment loans shall be in line with the rates on similar loans, as
specified by the Government.
9.        The period of CIB's loans (from the time of loan contract to the
date when the principal and interest are fully repaid) shall normally not
exceed seven years, with the longest not exceeding twelve years. The period
of each loan shall be determined on a case by case basis and shall be
specified in the loan contract. The loan period includes the construction
period (which equals the grace period) and the repayment period. The
construction period shall be based on the construction plan as spelled out in
the project feasibility study, while the repayment period shall be based on
the projected annual cash flow available for loan repayment after the project
is completed and production started.
10.       The borrowing units shall first repay foreign currency investment
loans and then repay local currency investment loans. If a borrowing unit is
delinquent in repayment of principal and interest during the repayment period,
the overdue part would be charged additional interest at 20% above the



- 39 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3
original rate. If any loan is diverted to other uses, the diverted part would
be repayable by the borrower promptly with 50% additional interest for such
period that funds had been diverted.
11.       According to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Chinese
Government and CIB, the foreign exchange risk on foreign currency investment
loans extended to CIB shall be borne by the Chinese Government and the
borrowing units respectively. CIB shall draw up concrete provisions in its
relevant regulations for implementation of the above-mentioned principle.
12.       CIB shall ensure that the borrowing units choose the most suitable
and most economical technology and equipment for importation. international
competitive bidding should be used for procurement contracts amounting
individually to over US$3 million. Comparison of quotations may be used for
contracts amounting individually to below US$3 million. When the latter
method is used, the quotations of at least three acceptable equipment
suppliers should be obtained.
13.       Borrowing enterprises which need to employ foreign consultants or to
have their own staff make investigations abroad for project implementation,
may obtain preparation subloans or may use their foreign exchange investment
loans to pay such expenditures, after CIB's approval.
14.       During the loan period (including the construction period and the
repayment period), CIB shall conduct systematic inspection and supervision of
the projects in accordance with its "Supervision Regulations for Loan-Financed
projects (For Trial Use)," to ensure the proper utilization of the loan
proceeds, accelerate construction, improve management, maximize the economic
benefit of the investments and ensure loan repayment on schedule.
15.       CIB shall strengthen the funds management (including raising money)
preparing financial plans, disbursements, repayments and managing funds, etc.)
and financial and accounting work; will establish and amplify the regulations
of the funds management and financial and accountiL3 work, and will recruit
experienced staff to strengthen the related departments, and to further raise
the operational and management standard of CIB.
16.       CIB shall adopt various measures to vigorously recruit and train
operational staff and raise operational standards, and shall gradually
establish branches and sub-branches based on operational needs.



- 40 -
ANNE 9
Page I
CHINA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Development Strategy Statement for 1986-88 of
The China Investment Bank
(Revised in September 1986)
1.        According to the situations of current national economy and the
requirement of the "Seven-Five Year Plan," and to facilitate the expansion of
its operations and to accomplish its assigned tasks, the China Investment Bank
(hereinafter called CIB) will follow a development strategy in the period
1986-1988, as spelled out below:
(a) CIB shall modify its financial resource base. Funds shall be raised
not only from the World Bank, but also from foreign financial
markets by borrowing long- And medium-term loans with favorable
terms and conditions according to a medium-term plan to be prepared
at the beginning of each year. In order to accomplish this work,
CIB shall recruit professional staff to strengthen related
departments, develop research and information work, and arrange
suitable projects to use such funds;
(b) CIB will follow the national policy of "vigorously carrying out
technological transformation in existing enterprises" and
"maximizing economic efficiency." In the coming few years, CIB's
lending will be aimed mainly at assisting existing enterprises to
implement their expansion and technology transformation projects,
which must be listed on the national or local fixed assets
investment plan;
(c)  in the coming few years, CIB will focus mainly on such projects
which require modest amounts of investment, obtain results quickly
and have high ability to repay. Thus, CIB will assist projects
sponsored primarily by the textile, and the light industrial
enterprises. At the same time, CIB will select some urgently-needed
projects which have sound economic benefits from the electronics,
chemical, machinery, metallurgy, building material and other
priority sectors, depending upon its staffs' professional capability
to satisfactorily appraise and supervise such projects;
(d) projects financed by CIB in the coming few years should mainly be
those whose products can be exported to generate foreign exchange or
can be substituted for imports to save foreign exchange;
(e)  in the coming few years, CIB will support mainly smaller projects.
For the majority of projects, foreign currency loan to a single
project shall not exceed US$5 million; local currency loan shall not
exceed RNB 10 million Yuan;



- 41 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2
(f) CIB head office will assist branches and sub-branches to improve
their operational standards so as to reduce the performance gap
between different branches. CIB will obtain necessary technical
support from the concerned supervisory bureaus/departments in
technical appraisal of the projects; CIB may also entrust the
concerned domestic consulting organizations for the assistance in
making technical appraisals, if necessary. CIB will maximize its
efforts to involve in the preparation of the projects as early as
possible and will assist borrowers in the preparation of feasibility
studies;
(g) CIB shall supervise the approved projects according to the
regulations, to ensure their satisfactory implementation and
operations upon completion. CIB shall help the borrowing
enterprises to reach the planned capacity as soon as possible after
the projects have gone into production; help them to improve the
management standard, achieve investment benefits and duly repay the
loans;
(h) CIB shall help the borrowing enterprises to apply acceptable
procurement procedures for the import of foreign technology and
equipment; to improve and strengthen the work of loan disbursements,
and thus to narrow the gaps between commitments, disbursements and
reimbursements;
(i) CIB shall steadily develop loans to join ventures and participate in
the investments in such projects. As to the joint-ventures already
participated by CIB (such as the International Leasing Corporation,
etc.), CIB will intensify the supervision work and help them to
develop their operation;
(j) in order to strengthen the fund management and the financial and
accounting work, CIB will develop a set of appropriate regulations
in 1986 and revise the original regulations for the financial and
accounting system. For this purpose, it will also increase the
suitably qualified and experienced staff in the concerned
departments;
(k)  CIB will make special efforts to recruit, trin, and retain
professional staff specialized in international finance, internal nd
external trade, industrial economics, finance, accounting,
engineering, and foreign languages to strengthen and further improve
project identification, appraisal and supervision work, financial
planning and general management.



- 42 -
ANNEX. l0
CHINA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
China Investmlent Bank
Actual and Projected Operations. 1983-90
(million yuan)
Actual                                   Projected
1983    1984   1985        1986       1987      1988       1989      1990
Approvals
Local currency       165.2   139.0   334*1        300.0     330.0      360.0     405.0      450.0
Foreign currency    139.4   185.4   639.1        690.0      814.0      888.0     999.0   1,110.0
(US$ million)        (49.8)  (66.2) (215.3)    (210.0)   (220*0)   (240.0)   (270.0)   (300.0)
Total           304.6   324.4   973.2       990.0   1,144.0   1,248.0   1,404.0   1,560.0
Commitments
Local currency        76.1   188.1   328.1        321.6     325.5      355.5     396.0      441.0
Foreign currency      48.7   231.0   601.7       634.8      802.9      876.9     976.8   1,087.8
(US$ million)        (17.4)  (82.5) (202.7)    (194.0)   (217.0)   (237.0)   (264.0)   (294.0)
Total           124.8   419.1   929.8       956.4   12128.4   1,232.4   1,372.8   1,528.8
Disbursement
Local currency        33.7    80.2   251.0        246.0     341.3      340.2     369.6      409.9
Foreign currency      10.9    52.9   349.4       658.3      793.3      827.7     911.7   1,011.2
(USs million)         (3.9)  (18.9) (117.7)    (200.8)   (214.4)   (223*7)   (246.4)   (273.3)
Total            44.6   133.1   600.4       904.3   1,134.6   1,167.9   12281.3   1,421.1
Loan Repayments /a
Local currency         4.8    10.1    38.1         73.2      85.9       95.5      112.9     117.5
Foreign currency        -       1.7    25.5        90.4     145.8      286.8     397.0      535.8
(US$ million)           -     (0.6)   (8.6)      (26.2)    (39.4)    (77.5)   (!07.3)   (144.8)
Total             4.8    11.7    63.6       163.6      231.7     382.3      509.9      653.3
Loan Portfolio
Local currency        28.9    99.0   318.3        491.1     746.5      991.2   1,247.9   1,540.3
Foreign currency      10.9    60.5   389.1    1,020.2   1,741.6   2,282.5   2,797.2   3*272.7
(US$ million)         (3.9)  (21.6) (131.1)    (305.7)   (480.7)   (626.9)   (766.0)   (894.5)
Total            39.8   159.5   707.4    1.511.3   2,488.1   3,273.7   4,045.1   4,813.0
/a Repayment to CIB.
Note: Exchange Rates:
1983-84                   $1 - Y 2.80
1985                      $1 - Y 2.9682
January - June 1986       $1 - Y 3.20
July - December 1986-90  $1 a Y 3.70
ASPID
July 1986



cnIA
FORTH INDUSTRAL CREDIT PROJECT
China Investment Bank
Sectoral Distribution of Proiects Financed bv CIS. 1983-86 la
(yuan '000)
1983                     1984                    1985               1986 (Jan-June)                 Total
Industrial subsector          No.  Amount        7     No.   Amount       2     No.  Amount        2    No.  Amount        Z     No.       Amount     2F
Light industry                10   140,921    62.8    29   175,525    25.2    52   243,815    29.7    11  70,671.8   19.4    102    630,932.8   30.0
Buildlag materials             -          -      -      7    44,467      6.4     2      7,063     0.9     -          -     -       9        51,530    2.5
Machinery and parts            2      9,245     4.1      7    32,701     4.7    14    39,293      4.8      3    10,824    3.0      26       92,063    4.4
Textiles and clothing          6    33,490    14.9    31   233,429    33.5    33   142,597    17.4        5   188,830   51.8      75       598,346   28.4
Electronics                     1     8,648     3.9    15    65,077      9.4    23   104,092    12.7       3    21,040    5.8     42       198,857    9.5
Chemical                       -          -      -      6    59,555      8.6     7    34,880      4.2     3    38,810   10.6      16       133,245    6.3
Metallurgical                  1    12,493      5.6      2    15,464     2.2      5    33,387     4.1      1    t2,602    3.5      9        73,946    3.5
Pharmaceutical                 3    16,923      7.5     4    20,957      3.0     2      2,962     0.4     -          -     -       9        40,842    1.9
Packaging materials            1      2,700     1.2     3      8,494     1.2    10    36,578      4.5     -          -     -      14        47,772    2.3
Food processing                -          -      -      1      1,642     0.2    14    50,331      6.1     3    21,423    5.9      18        73,396    3.5
Services                       -          -      -      8    37,538      5.4    19    72,176      8.8     -          -     -      27       109,714    5.2
Agricultural, forestry,
dairy prpdicts               -          -      -      -          -      -      3    16,221      2.0     -          -     -       3        16,221    0.8
other                          -          -      -      2      1,376     0.2    27    35,991      4.4     -          -     -      29        37,367    1.7
Total                 24   224.420   100.0   115   696.225   100.0   211   819.386   100.0   -29 364.200.8  100.0    379  2,104.231.8  100.0
/a  On the basis of total Investment in each project.
ABPID
July 1986



*      CHImA
FOURTH INDUBTRIAL CREDrT PROJECT
Chlna Investment Bank
Geographical Distribution of ProLects Financed by CIB. 1983-86 /a
kyuan  0uU)
1983                    1984                     1985                1      an8uneTotal
Branch location              No.   Amount            N NO.   Amount                   1 No.  Amount    nNo AUUt          2X   No.         Amount      z
Shanghai                      2    30,450    13.6      3    59,140     8.5    16    49,069       6.0     -          -     -     21        138,659    6.6
Tianjln                       7   103,464    46.1      9   142,274    20.4     7      14,897     1.8     3     30,492    8.4    26        291,127   13.8
Jiangsu                      12    69,316    30.9    32   162,975    23.4    42    230,275    28.1       5     37,295   10.2    91        499,861   23.8
Hebei                         3    21,190     9.4    15   104,953    15.1    44      98,857    12.1      1      6,770    1.9    63        231,769   11.0
Rubei                         -         -      -      16    43,399     6.2    11      35,522     4.4     5     45,447   12.5    32        124,368    5.9
Fujian                        -         -      -      12    31,271     4.5    17      32,193     3.9     1      2,922    0.8    30         66,386    3.2
Liaoning                      -         -      -      10    52,847     7.6    21      81,925    10.0     3     15,166    4.2    34        149,938    7.1
Shandong                      -         -      -       1     8,038     1.2     6     37,572      4.6     -          -     -      7         45,610    2.2
Anhui                         -         -      -       4    31,942     4.6     9      62,412     7.6     3      9,098    2.5    16        103,452    4.9
Zhejiang                      -         -      -       3    19,017     2.7    10     40,360      4.9     2     24,490    6.7    15         83,868    4.0
Beijing                       -         -      -       7    20,239     2.9    13     63,781      7.8     -          -     -      20        84,020    4.0
Inner Mongolia                -         -      -       1     7,070     1.0     -          -      -       -          -     -       1         7,070    0.3
Guangdong                     -         -      -       2    13,060     1.9     1       1,536     0.2     2      6,638    1.8      5        21,234    1.0
Guaag3i                       -         -      _      _          _      _      2      6,470      0.8     -          -     -       2         6,470    0.3
Jilin                         -         -      -       -         -      -      1      16,602     2.0     -          -     -       1        16,602    0.8
Runan                         -         -      -       -         -      -      1       1,876     0.2     -          -     -       1         1,876    0.1
Sichuan                       -         -      -       -         -      -      4      10,922     1.3     1      5,200    1.4      5        16,122    0.8
Rellongjlang                  -         -      -      -          -      -      1      5,333      0.7     1   20,702.8    5.7      2      26,035.8    1.2
Shanri                        -         -      -       -         -      -      2      14,216     1.7     -          -     -       2        14,216    0.7
Henan                         -         -      -      -          -      -      1      2,400      0.3     1    159,280   43.7      2       161,680    7.7
Guishou                       -         -      -       -         -      -      -           -      -      1        700    0.2      1           700    0.3
Other                         -         -      -      -          -      -      2      13,168     1.6     -          -     -       2        13,168    0.6
Tot.A                   24   224.420   100.0   115   696.225   100.0   211    819.386   100.0    29  364.200.8  100.0   379   2.104.231.8  100.0
/a On the basis of total investment in each project.
AEPID                                                                                                     
July 1986
P



cRNA
FOURTI lNDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
China Investment Bank
Sectoral Distribution of Subprojects under CIB I and CIB II as of June 30. 1986
(US$ 000)
Subvrojects under CIB I         Subprolects under CIB II             Total usbproiects
Industural subsector      No.          Amount       S      No.    2      Amount      Z      No.    X       Amount     I
Light Industry             19  33.93  30,806.8  44.55    40  26.10   51,447.1  30.34    59  28.23   82,253.9  34.45
Building materials          2    3.57   2,350.0   3.39       3   2.00    4,165.8   2.46       5   2.39    6,515.8   2.73
Machinery and parts         5   8.93   6,060.0   8.79    12   7.80    8,277.3   4.85    17   8.13  14,287.3   5.98
Textlles and clothing      13  23.21  12,528.2  18.11       38  24.80   41,562.2  24.51    51  24.40   54,090.4  22.66
Electronics                 7   12.50   5,061.0   7.31    20  13.10  23,632.9  13.94    27  12.92  28,693.9  12.02
Cheical                     1   1.79    973.5   1.41        8    5.20  13,998.4   8.26        9   4.31   14,971.9   6.27
Metallurgical               3   5.35   5,108.0   7.39        2   1.30    1,450.4   0.86       5   2.39    6,558.4   2.75
Pharmaceutical              4    7.14   4,620.0   6.68       5    3.30    3,588.1   2.11      9   4.30   8,208.1   3.44
Packaging materials         1   1.79    650.0   0.93    11   7.20   10,286.5   6.06    12   5.75   10,936.5   4.58
Food processing             -    -           -      -        7   4.60    4,782.3   2.82       7   3.35    4,782.3   2.00
Services                    1   1.79   1,000.0   1.44        4   2.60    2,910.0   1.71       5   2.39    3,910.0   1.64
Agricultural, forestry,
dalry products            -    -           -      -        2    1.30   3,030.0   1.79       2   0.96    3,030.0   1.27
Other                       -    -           -      -        1   0.70      500.0   0.29       1   0.48      500.0   0.21
Total                   36  100.00  69.157.5  100.00   153  100.00  169,581.0  100.000   209  100.00  238.738.5  100.00
AEPID
July 1986



QRM,
FOORTI DDUSTRIAL CURDtT PIjCT
China Investment Bank
Geographical Distribution of Subprojects under CIB I and ciB n as of June 30. 1986
(US$ 000)
Subarolecte under CIB I        Subprolecta under CID II             Total subprolects _        Average
Braah Location   NO.    x    A.out          x    No.    2       Amot        I    lNo.    X       Amount             alZs
Sha_gbai            2    3.57   3,650.0    5.28    10   6.54   16,905.0   9.97    12    5.74  20,555.0   8.61   1,712.9
TIAnjin             9    16.07  22,526.2  32.57      7   4.58  19,110.1   11.27   16   7.66   41,636.3   17.44   2,602.3
Jianga             26    46.43  22,627.2  32.72   38  24.84   45,330.3  26.73    64  30.62   67,957.5  28.47   1,061.8
label               8    14.29  11,028.0  15.95   21   13.73   15,521.2   9.15    29  13.88   26,549.2  11.12         915.5
Nobel               2     3.57   1,600.0   2.31    18  11.76   12,998.6   7.67    20   9.S7   14,598.6   6.12         729.9
Fujian              5    8.93   5,590.6   8.08       5    3.27    3,785.7    2.23    10   4.78    9,376.3   3.93      937.6
LLaoulug            2    3.57      880.0    1.27   17  11.11   14,617.8   8,62    19   9.09   15,497.8   6.49         815.7
Uaong              -      -          -      -       5   3.27    7,050.8    4.16      5   2.39    7,050.8   2.95   1,410.2
Anui                -      -          -      -       7   4.58    6,790.0    4.00     7   3.35    6,790.0   2.83       970.0
Zbejisg             -      -          -     -       11   7.19   10,893.0   6.42   11    5.26   10,893.0   4.56    990.3
teijiu              2     3.57   1,255.5   1.82      6   3.92    7,131.5   4.21      8    3.83    8,387.0   3.51   1,048.4
Inner Ubugoila     -      -          -      -       1   0.65    1,700.0   1.00       1   0.48    1,700.0   0.71   1,700.0
Gudog               -      -          -      -       1   0.65    2,650.0   1.56      1   0.48    2,650.0   1.11   2,650.0
agi                 -     -           -     -        1   0.65      412.0   0.24      1   0.48       412.0   0.17    412.0
Jilin                                                -    -           -      -       -    -            -      -          -
sichn               -      -          -     -       4   2.61    2,685.0   1.58       4    1.91    2,685.0    1.12    671.3
Hello gjiang        -      -         -      -       -    -            -      - 
Shani               -     -           -     -        1   0.65    2,000.0    1.18     1   0.48    2,000.0   0.84   2,000.0
Total           56   100.00  69.157.5  100.00   153  100.00  169.581.0  100.00   209  100.00  238.738.5  100.00
AJPID                                                                                                                                                        1!
July 1986



CHMIN
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CERDIT PROJECT
China Investennt Bank
Resource Situation as of December 31. 1985-90
(Uilllon yuan)
A,ctual                                                   Prolected
1985                1986                1987                 1988                1989                 1990
YUaY                                    Yuan                 Yuan                Yuan      $          Yuan
Resources
Shmre capital & reserves    10*0    372.0        10.0    872.0       10.0    872.0       10.0  1,042.0        10.0  1,302.0       10.0  1,602.0
Borrowings:
World Dank Group         245.0       -        345.0       -       645.0       -       645.0        -       945.0       -       945.0       -
Other External Borrowing    -        -        60.0        -       120.0       -       190.0        -       270.0       -       360.0       -
m3C                      150.0       -        150.0       -       150.0       -       150l0       -        150.0       -       150.0       -
Total Resources       405*0    372.0       565.0    872.0      925.0    872.0      995.0  1.042.0    1,375.0  1.302.0    1.465.0  1.602.0
Uses
Loans outstanding          131.1    318.3       305.7    491.1      480.7    746.5      626.9    991.2       766.0  1,247.9      894.5  1,540.3
Equity lUveat emts           1.3       1.5        2.2      1.5        3.2      1.5        5.2       6.5        7.2     11.5        9.2     16.5
i$ad assete                   -        1.4         -       2.7         -       4.0         -        5.4         -       6.9         -       8.5
Appropriated fund for
SpeelaZone                  -        -         10.0       -        20.0       -        30.0       -         30.G       -        30.0       -
Allocatlon for Leasing Co.   -         -           -      10.0         -      20.0         -       30.0         -      30.0         -      30.0
Working capital            111.1       -         71.1       -        46"1       -        25.1        -        25.1       -        25.1       -
Total Uses            243.5    321.2      389.0    50S.3       550.0    772.0      687.2  1.033.1      828.3  1.296.3       958.8  1,595.3
Resources available
for disburam_t             161.5     50.8       176.0   366.7       375.0    100.0      307.8      8.9       546.7      5.7      506.2      6.7
Less: Ubdisbursed
co itments       (161.2)  (180.3)    (161.1)  (255.9)    (165.9)  (240.1)    (205.3)  (255.4)    (187.9)  (281.9)    (208.6)  (312.9)
Resources available
for con ltaeuts              0.3  (129.S)        14.9    110.8      209*1   (140.1)     102.S  (246.S)       358*8   (276.1)     297.6  (306.2)
Less: Uncom-itted
approvals         (29.0)   (89.1)     (45.0)  (67.5)       (48.0)   (72*0)     (51*0)   (76.5)     (57.0)   (8S.5)      (63.0)  (94.5)
Resources available
for amy approvals          (28*7)  (218.6)    (30.1)    43*3        161.1  (212.1)       51.5  (323.0)       301.8  (361.6)      234.6  (400.7)
ISPID
Ju1l 1986



:ANBX 15
FOURTRU V#1USTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
China knvestment Bank
Actual and ?roJected' In-come St*atew~eato, 1984-90
(million yuan)
ictual                         Projected
1984- '-''195-    '1986    1987    1988    1989    1990o
Income
Interest Income from Loans
Local currency                   2.3        16.2       36.4    55.7    78.2   100.8   125.5
Foreign currency                 1.8        14.4       58.1   11349   166.0   209.5   250.4
Subtotal                     4.1        30.6      94.5   169.6   244.2   310.3   375.9
Interest Income on Deposits
Local currency                   5.8         3.7       20.6    11.9      9.1    10.3    12.4
Foreign currency                 5.3         8.9        6.1     4.3      2.3      2.3     2.3
Subtotal                    11.1        12.6      26.7    16.2    11.4    12.6    14.7
Other income                        -          0.1        0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1
Total Income                15.2        43.3      121.3   185.9   255.7   323.0   390.7
Expenses
Financial expenses
Local currency interest          3.5         7.7       18.1    18.1    18.1    18.1    18.1
Foreign currency interest        4.2         4.9       51.0   100.1   145.9   184.1   220.0
Foreign currency fees             -          4.4        4.5     7.0      4.4      8.2     5.3
Subtotal                     7.7        17.0      73.6   125.2   168.4   210.4   243.4
Administrative & other
expenses                         1.6         4.2       10.6    17.4    22.9    28.3    33.7
Provisions for doubtful
accounts                         -          2.7        7.6    12.4    16.4    20.2    24.1
Depreciation & amortization         -          0.1        0.3     0.3      0.4      0.4     0.5
Total Expenses               9.3        24.0      92.1   155.3   208.1   259.3   301.7
Income before tax                    5.9        19.3       29.2    30.6    47.6    63.7    89.0
Taxes other than income tax         (0.2)       (1.6;      (6.2)   (9.5)  (13.0)  (16.5)  (19.9)
Net Income before income tax         5.7        17.7       23.0    21.1    34.6    47.2    69.1
Income tax                            -           -          -        -    (19.0)  (26.0)  (38.0)
Net Income                   5.7        17.7      23.0    21.1    15.6    21.2    31.1
AEPID
July 1986



-49-
ANN$X 16
CHIM
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
China Investment Bank
Balancp Sheets, December 31, 1984-9C
-        Ou~kmLiLzon Yuan)
Actual                             Projected
1954        M95        lswo      1987       196        1959 -    199u-
Assets
' curtent
Cash  nd bank deposilt                             730.7       350.5      829.6     746.9   1,012.6   1,434.1   1,987.0
Current maturities of term loans
Local                                             26.0        47.7       85.9      95.5      112.9      117.5     210.1
Foreign                                            5.6        63.0      145.8     286.8      397.0      535.8     797.4
Subtotal                                        31.6       110.7     231.7      382.3      509.9     653.3   1,007.5
Other receivables                                    0.4        82.9       82.9      82.9       82.9       82.9      82.9
Total Cusrrent A*ss2ets                        762.7       544.1   1,144.2   1,212.1   1,605.4   2,170.3   3,077.4
Long14Term
Lca'rn t Local currency                             99.0       318.3      491.1     746.5      991.2   1,247.9   1,540.3
porei    *urtency                           60.5      389.2   1,020.2   1,741.6   2,282.5   2,797.2   3,272.7
Lesst Provisions for bad & doubtful loans             -         (2.7)    (10.3)    (22.7)    (39.1)    (59.3)    (83.4)
Current maturities of term loans            (31.6)    (110.7)   (231.7)   (382.3)   (509.9)   (653.3) (1,007.5)
Net Long-term Loan Portfolio                   127.9       594.0   1,269.3   2,083.1   2,724.7   3,332.5   3,722.1
Equity luestents                                    3.9         5.3        9.8      15.5       25.9       37.3      49.7
Fis6sd P e ts  f4et)                                0,4         1.4        2.3       3.3        4.3        5.4       6.5
,'           flts                                  132.2       600.7   1,281.4   2,101.8   2,754.9   3,375.2   3,778.3
2    Total Aesets \                                 894.9    1,144.8   2,425.6   3,314.0   4,360.3   5,545.5   6,855.7
!!=eRd Pdn4 s
*--ri$s-4u1a >ildb R                                              62.6       92.9      102.9     112.9      112.9      112.9
s4 ba1ye                                               -         50.3       30.0       30.0      30.0       30.0      30.0
Totsl inaged Funds                                _        112.9     122.9      132.9      142.9     142.9      142.9
-   Labiltlesa   
W  *\ ,u-r-renr payaFe*s                                          -        81.1      153.0      227.0      260.0     242.3      220.2
Current portio d    idbt                               0.1          -          -        8.7       17.5       76.1     154.5
K'Tptal jurreat Liabilities                         0.1       81.1      153.0      235.7     277.5      318.4      374.7
*   Long-t4 ~  ss1cal borroirug                     423.5       420.0      420.0     420.0      420.0      420.0     420.0
!itD/IDA                                 60.4       215.1      789.2   1,362.6   1,942.4   2,569.2   3,258.5
'6t4r externs3  borrowing                  -           -       120.8     331.7      579.6      874.5   1,186.4
Loss:  Current maturltles,                              -           -          -       (8.7)    (17.5)    (76.1)   (154.5)
Total LonSTerm Debt                            483.9      635.1   1,321.0   2,105.6   2,924.5   3,787.6   4,710.4
Total Liabilities                              484.0       716.2   1,474.0   2,341.3   3,202.0   4,106.0   5,085.1
Net W&rth
'  rasi1FK'capital                                       400.0       400.0      900.0     900.0   1,070.0   1,330.0   1,630.0
Retaimed .irnlgs                                     10.9        28.6       51.6      72.7       88.3      109.5     140.6
Totasi Net Worth                               410.9       428.6     951.6      972.7   1,158.3   1,439.5   1,770.6
<,  ?ptai  *abilities and Net Worth                 894.9    1,144.8   2,425.6   3,314.0   4,360.3   5,545.5   6,855.7
rro    w     e     n                                   -        112.9      122.9      132.9     142.9      142.9     142.9
YrPm  10"Y goernm1 nt
July 1986       .
NI
'I~~~~~~~~~ 
F.         ,, 



ANNEX 17
-50  _  
CHINA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
China Investment Bank
Financing Plan, 1986-88
1986      1987      1988
Foreign exchange resources available
for approvals:
World Bank loans                                   100.0     250.0        -
Capital market loans                                60.0      60.0      70.0
Working capital available for
long-term lending                                 40.0      25.0      21.0
Repayment of subloans La                             8.6      26.2      39.4
Previous year's balance for approvals              (28.7)    (30.1)    111.1
Total                                         179.9     331.1     241.5
Loan Approvals                                       210.0     220.0     240.0
Year-end balance for new approvals                   (30.1)    111.1       1.5
/a   Repayment to CIS.
Note: This table is on approval basis.
AJPID
July 1986



-51-                                 6MNEX 18
CHIN
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJZCT
China Investment Bank
Actual and Prolected Cash Flow Statements, 1985-90
tnlllon yuan)
Actual                  Prolected
113      iLve     198n     iVan    iv         19
Sources
seE profit before income tax            17.7       23.0      21.1     34.6      47.2     69.1
Add: Provisions for doubtful
accounts                         2.7       7.6      12.4      16.4     20.2      24.1
Depreciation & amortization        0.1        0.3      0.3       0.4      0.4       0.5
Subtotal                        20.5      30.9      33.8      51.4     67.8      93.7
Paid-in capital                           -       500.0        -     170.0    260.0    300.0
Borrowinxs
uomestic borrowings                     -          -         -        -         -         -
IBRD loans                           181.3      565.1    582.4    S79.8    626.8    689.3
Other external loans                    -       120.8    210.9    247.9    284.9    321.9
Foreign currency deposits              2.9         -        -         -                  -
Local currency deposits               10.0         -        -         _         _        _
Guaranty funds                        44.6         -        -         -         -        -
Other                                 17.8       29.0      8.8      58.8      78.4    134.2
Managed funds received                82.9       10.0      10.0     10.0        -        -
Subtotal                         339.5     724.9    812.1    896.5    990.1  1,145.4
Loan Collections:
Local currency                        38.1       73.2     85.9      95.5    112.9    117.5
Foreign currency                      25.5       90.4    145.8    286.8    397.0    535.8
Subtotal                          63.6      163.6    231.7    382.3    509.9    653.3
Total Sources                    423.6   1.419.4  1,077.6  1,500.2  1,827.8  2,192.4
Uses
7Man Disbursements:
Local currency                       251.0      246.0    341.3    340.2    369.6    409.9
Foreign currency                     349.4      658.3    793.3    827.7    911.7  1,011.2
Subtotal                         600.4     904.3  1,134.6  1,167.9  1,281.3  1,421.1
!wa ent of Loa-) /a
uomestl  loani                          -          -        -         -         -        -
Foreign loans                           -          -       8.7      17.5     76.1    154.5
Subtotal                                 -             8.7      17.5     76.1    154.5
Fixed assets purchase                    1.1        1.2       1.3      1.4       1.5      1.6
Equity investments                       3.5        4.5       5.7     10.4      11.4     12.4
Income tax                                -          -        -       19.0     27.0      38.0
Guaranty funds                          44.6                            -         -        -
Other                                   91.6         -        -        8.3       9.0     11.9
Subtotal                         140.8        5.7      7.0      39.1     48.9      63.9
Managed funds disbursed                 62.6       30.3      10.0     10.0        -        -
Total Uses                       803.8      940.3  1,160.3  1,234.5  1,406.3  1,639.5
Surplus (Deficits)              (380.2)    479.1    (82.7)   265.7    421.5    552.9
Opening cash balance                     730.7      350.5    829.6    746.9  1,012.6  1,434.1
Closing Cash Balance             350.5     829.6    746.9  1,012.6  1,434.1  1,987.0
.a Repayment to World Bank.
ARPID
July 1986



-52-                              ANNEX 19
CHINA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
China Investment Bank
Projected Indicators of Financial Position and Performance, 1984-90
(million yuan)
Actual                        Projected
1984    1985    1986       1987      1988     1999      1990
Total assests                        894.9  1,144.8  2,425.6  3,314.0  4,360.3  5,545.5  6,855.7
of which total loan portfolio    159.5    707.4  1,511.3  2,488.1  3,273.7  4,045.1  4,813.0
Long-term debts                    483.9    635.1  1,321.0  2,114.3  2,942.0  3,863.7  4,864.9
of which local currency         423.5    420.0    420.0    420.0    420.0    420.0    420.0
- IBRD loans/IDA credits         60.4    215.1    780.2  1,362.6  1,942.4  2,569.2  3,258.5
- Other foreign                     -        -    120.8    331.7    579.6    874.5  1,186.4
Total equity                         410.9    428.6    951.6    972.7  1,158.3  1,439.5  1,770.6
Ratios
Financial ratios:
Current                              -    6.9:1      14.5     13.9      16.7     14.0      13.2
long-term debt/equity            1.2:1    1.7:1    1.4:1    2.2:1    2.5:1    2.6:1    2.7:1
Profitability ratios as % of
average total assets:
Gross earnings                     2.0      4.2       6.9      6.6       6.8      6.7       6.4
Financial expenses                 1.1      1.7       4.2      4.5       4.5      4.4       4.0
General and admin. expenses        0.2      0.4       0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6       0.5
Provisions (annual)                  -      0.3       0.4      0.4       C.4      0.4       0.4
Profit before income tax           0.8      1.7       1.3      0.7       0.9      1.0       1.1
Net profit                        0.8       1.7       1.3      0.7       0.4      0.4       0.5
Income from loan portfolio as Z
of average term loan portfolio   4.1        7.1       8.5      8.5       8.5      8.5       8.5
Cost of debt as S of average
term debt                          2.4      3.0       7.1      6.9       6.5      6.0       5.6
Profit after tax as % of aver-
age equity                         1.4      4.2       3.3      2.2       1.5      1.6       1.9
Provisions as X of year-end
outstanding loan portfolio           -      0.4       0.7      0.9       1.2      1.5       1.7
Debt service coverage ratio            -      5.9       3.6      2.9       3.2      2.7       2.5
AEPID
July 1986



ANNEX 20
CHINA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Standard
Year           Period             Amount          Cumulative          profile (X)
FY87        January-June          15.0 /a           15.0 /a               1.0
FY88        July-December         15.0              30.0                 10.0
January-June          51.0             81.0                 27.0
FY89        July-December         54.0             135.0                 45.0
January-June          51.0            186.0                 62.0
FY90        July-December         39.0             225.0                 75.0
January-June          30.0            255.0                 85.0
FY91        July-December         21.0             276.0                 92.0
January-June          12.0            288.0                 96.0
FY92        July-December          9.0             297.0                 99.0
January-June           3.0            300.0                100.0
/a   This amount is higher than the standard profile and represents the amount
to be transferred to the Special Account.
AEPID
July 1986



- 54 -
ANNEX 21
CHINA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.        Many relevant documents are available in the project files for
CIB I, II and III projects. The additional documents are as followsi
A-I      Statistical Yearbook of China, 1985
B-1      CIB's Report on its Proposed Financial Management System
B-2      Consultants' Report with Comments and Recommendations on
CIB's Report on its Proposed Financial Management
Information System
D-1      Detailed Working Papers for CIB IV Project



a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
cm
inm~~~~~a  ,wumgmab.      .m,~~~~~~~~~~~~~c.  ~~~~mmina~~~.  h. na                  
DH OeuOM aAaOaW
-agu hom  ChW
.wemmm,4"a 1                         3
olw*AMOWOA            II  Fm"l           "*Imalnq        Dm3gaaP IhaUOM
____-S___e   L2                                   47 1m                                        4
kw~~             ft                                                              I       It%vW .,WD
F"  DN=  I-IO   00kx           SLFcmww.                     IS*=uo  IN*ltot,                                  0*F*xou         wz
212



NOTES
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



MAP SECTION



CHINA                      
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJEC})<4>a                                         U.S.S.R. 
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK IVJ                              ',. 
CIS Oranch OMceM/\
Province Boundaries.                          HNIfNOWAJANG           i
--    ntemational Boundaries(   J       .            Habn      _ 
r         k<,    OIumgsbun w Changchun
MONGOLIA                          C    sg{...... nr
2 ~~'_.5_// / sEx>/~GsH/ y /a .... ,J4& ~KOR",'   JA PA S4 .
9                   I H~~~~~~~ohhotO  aft.1    ' SM,         J;
e  ~ ~~~  H       .,        8zfflJn    g    t X       _   ' \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(E HA NX                                        Sl ~s2<8oul"-
X A ) Hebi~~~~~~~~~~SE XiAi
QIGA                                                                                 JA0AIN,As ,w
HEAtAN           IAMGSUA H           A$lRtJ
A ~S      IC   / 1 U   A   N   -JgJ/N  A
30                   Chnd A  <HIF IA .                         V
, N1>}   u {<          \0       hash  gJ/  Nach"e         ,,
.    >  /  )         j   F~~~~~UNVAN       r-,    Fuzhou .9
v{  9 <2 _       ~~~~~OGulyang  ;              ) U/N--
5 YVNNd N            \                   OUANGD'ONG   
7           )   Gtgz4w       Xaua~~~~/ongibou     
BURM;.*  VIET NAMiv_' ,JlAAOT
.20       PEOPLE'S )     ,           -      -,SOUTHI CHINAX                          _=
TH4AILAND {E.RP                                            ,#Xb#|*-                -
' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~               N~~~~~~~~~~~~1OVEMBER 1981



