Dorument Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
C,4 /2(3- et"
Report No. P-4452-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt250.0 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 40.9 MILLION (US$50.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
February 6, 1987
This document has a restricted distributin and may be used by recipients only in the perrormance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Currency Unit = Yuan Renminbi Y)
Calendar 1986             January 19B7
$1.00 = Y 3.45            $1.00 = Y 3.72
Y 1.00 =  $0.29           Y 1.00 = $0.27
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC     -   AgriculturaL Bank of China
HOC     -   Bank of China
CIB     -   China Investment Bank
CITIC   -   China International Trust and Investment Corporation
CNTIC   -   China National Technical Import Corporation
DFC     -   Development Finance Company
EDI     -   Economic Development Institute
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
ICBC    -   Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
LIT     -   Limited International Tendering
MOF     -   Ministry of Finance
PBC     -   People's Bank of China (the Central Bank)
PCBC    -   People's Construction Bank of China
RCC     -   Rural Credit Cooperatives
SEC     -   State Economic Commission
SPC     -   State Planning Commission
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Programme



FOR OMICAL USE ONLY
CHINA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (CHINA INVESTMENT BANK Iv)
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:           China Investment Bank (CIB)
Amount:                $300.0 million equivalent, comprising $250.0 million
equivalent IBRD and SDR 40.9 million ($50.0 million
equivalent) IDA
Terms:                 Loan:  20 years, including 5 years of grace, at standard
variable interest rate
Credit: Standard
Relending Terms:       The proceeds of the loan and credit would be onlent to CIB
for a 20-year term, including 5 years of grace, at a fixed
interest rate of 7% p.a. CIB would pay commitment fees
equal to those under the loan and credit. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk between the US dollar
and (a) the currency pool for the Bank loan; and (b) the
SDR for the IDA credit. Subborrowers would pay a fixed
interest rate of 8.5% p.a. and would bear the foreign
exchange risk between the US dollar and the Yuan.
Project Description:  The project aims to assist in (a) upgrading productivity
and efficiency of small- and medium-scale industries by
importing modern technology, and (b) further institutional
strengthening of CIB so that it can effectively perform as
a model development finance institution and a catalyst in
the ongoing reform of the investment design and selection
system in China. The project would also enhance the
capability of CIB to mobilize foreign currency resources
from international capital markets to provide financing
for the industrial sector. It is estimated that about 175
state and collective enterprises largely in the light
industry sector would receive subloans for modernization
and expansion. The project risks are minimal and mainly
relate to CIB's continued and successful institution-
building and its future development financing role. How-
ever, the commitment of CIB management to various measures
agreed with the Bank and the close supervision by Bank
staff would ensure satisfactory progress in this area.
Estimated
Disbursement:          Bank FY   1987      1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
Annual                 15.0     66.0   105.0    69.0    33.0    12.0
Cumulative             15.0     81.0   186.0   255.0   288.0   300.0
Staff Appraisal        No. 6412-CHA, dated January 29, 1987
Report:
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (CHINA INVESTMENT BANK IV)
1.        I submit the following report and recomiendation on a proposed loan
and credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance a fourth
industrial credit project. The loan, for $250.0 million equivalent, would
have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with standard variable
interest rate. The credit, for SDR 40.9 million ($50.0 million equivalent),
would be an standard IDA terms. The proceeds of the loan and credit would be
onlent to the China Investment Bank (CIB) with a 20-year term, including 5
years of grace, at a fixed interest rate of 7.0% p.a., plus commitment fees
equal to those under the loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic report, entitled "China: Long-Term Issues and
Options" (No. 5206-CHA), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 22, 1985. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Since 1978, China has initiated economic reforms in both rural and
urban areas and in the external sector. Reforms have thus far progressed the
farthest in the rural economy. Following some experiments with the abolition
of collective farming in impoverished areas, the Government implemented a com-
prehensive restructuring of rural institutions based on various forms of the
"'production responsibility system". By 1983 the farm household had become the
fundamental unit of management and production in agriculture, within a frame-
work of collective or state ownership of land and major fixed assets. Reforms
are now proceeding in the urban economy, and there have been significant
changes in enterprise management and finance. The scope for collective and
individual economic activities has been enlarged, and state enterprises have
been allowed greater freedom in production, pricing and marketing above their
mandatory plan targets. State enterprises have also been allowed to retain
some profits, and investment projects are increasingly being financed on a
loan rather than a grant basis.
4.        In international trade and investment, China has been progressively
opening up to the rest of the world. Between 1978 and 1985, the share of
exports to GDP nearly doubled to about 10%, a ratio similar to other large
economies such as the U.S. and Brazil. Foreign investment has been encour-
aged, first through the establishment of four Special Economic Zones and the
signing of joint venture contracts for off-shore oil exploration, and more
recently through the opening of 14 coastal cities to foreign investment.



-2-
Growth and Stabilization
5.        Reforms have helped to stimulate more rapid development of the
economy. Real GDP growth averaged 5% p.a. between 1978 and 1981 and 10% p.a.
between 1981 and 1985. More recently, in 1985, growth accelerated to 12.3% as
a result of further reforms emphasizing decentralized decisionmaking, and the
expansionary macroeconomic policies of 19B4. During 1978-1985, per capita
incomes in real terms more than doubled in rural areas and increased by more
than 50% in urban areas. Agriculture has continued its remarkably strong
performance, with gross agricultural output value (excluding ruraL industry
and commerce) rising at nearly 11% p.a. between 1981 and 1985 and grain output
at 8% p.a. (reaching as high as 407 million tons in 1984). Cash crops and
animal husbandry, stimulated by rising demand and attractive prices, have also
grown rapidly. Gross industrial output value grew at over 10% p.a. over the
same period, with heavy industry growing somewhat faster than light industry
(12% p.a. vs. 9% p.a.). If rural industrial output is included, gross indus-
trial output value grew at close to 12% p.a. in real terms between 1981 and
1984. The energy constraint on industrial growth was eased by rising coal
output (8% p.a. between 1981 and 1983), renewed increases in crude oil produc-
tion (4% p.a. between 1981 and 1985) and improvements in the efficiency of
energy utilization (primary commercial energy consumption grew only 601 as
fast as GDP between 1981 and 1985). Manufactured exports growth, at 8% p.a.
in real terms between 1981 and 1985, was slower than during the 1978-81 period
in the face of worsening world market conditions.
6.        The Government continues to face difficulties in combining system
reform and rapid overall growth with maintenance of economic stability.
During 1979 and 1980, China experienced large budget and current account
deficits, combined with excessive investment and inflationary preL ires. In
response, a strict stabilization program was introduced in 1981 relying mainly
on administrative controls on investment spending. The program slowed growth
but also helped lower the budget deficit from about 5% of GDP in 1979 to less
than 1% in 1981, reduce inflation to around 2% p.a., and change China's exter-
nal position to one of current account surpluses averaging nearly $4 billion
during 1982-84. As a result, foreign debt and debt service ratios were still
at low levels ($13.1 billion and 6.8%, respectively, in 1984), and China's
foreign currency reserves rose to $17.8 billion (over 9 months' imports) by
mid-1984.
7.        This comfortable balance of payments position disappeared rapidly
during the course of 1984 and early 1985. Partly as a result of decentraliza-
tion of decisionmaking and the lack of effective indirect policy instruments,
there was a rapid acceleration of investment and consumption during late 1984
and the first half of 1985, causing the economy to overheat. Real GDP grew by
12% during 1985, while average wages in state-owned enterprises rose by 20%,
and domestic credit grew by 22%. The retail price index rose by 8.8Z in 1985.
There was also a rapid expansion in consumer goods imports. As a result,
foreign exchange reserves had fallen to $13.2 billion by the end of 1985
(equivalent to 4.2 months of imports), and the current account deficit for the
year was $12 billion, much of which was financed by an increase in foreign
borrowing. China's external debt by end 1985 reached $20 billion, up from
$13.1 billion in 1984 and the debt service ratio (including short-term debt)



- 3 -
rose to 82. The Government responded by launching a strict stabilization
program that aims to control imports and borrowing and includes further
increases in interest rates as well as a series of administrative directives
governing bank credit and project approval. Most recently, in JuLy 1986, the
Renminbi was devalued from Y 3.2 to the US dollar to Y 3.7, and a program to
improve controls over external borrowing was introduced. As a result, aggre-
gate credit and investment as well as new import orders have begun to slow.
The balance of payments in 1986 is likely to show an improvement, albeit small
from 1985.
Recent Reforms
8.        The Central Commitcee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on "reform of the economic structrre" in October 1984, whose
provisions have been embodied in the Seventh Five-Year Plan. These include:
(a) state enterprises should be made fully independent units which pursue
profits and are responsible for losses; (b) the scope of mandatory planning
should be reduced and replaced by indicative planning, while the focus of
planning should shift from annual to medium- and long-term guidance planning;
(c) a more rational price system should be introduced, reducing the role of
state-controlled prices and increasing the role of "floating" and free market
prices; and (d) the tax system should be improved, finance and banking should
be reformed, and a larger role should be given to indirect macroeconomic regu-
lation through indirect instruments such as tax, credit and pricing policy.
9.        Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remarkable spread of nonagricul-
tural activities like processing, transport, and commerce. "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on cash crops, animal husbandry, or nonagri-
cultural activities) and pooling of capital by small groups of households in
various types of ventures are becoming increasingly common forms of economic
organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale markets for some agricultural
products have emerged. To encourage investment in land improvement and devel-
opment, farming contracts between collective and peasant households for the
use of land (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years) can
now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, the system of
agricultural procurement was changed. Previously the Government purchased
quota output of grain and other crops at relatively low prices and stood ready
to purchase all above-quota output at a higher price. Under the new system,
procurement up to a certain amount (below former quota procurement) is based
on contracts concluded voluntarily between peasants and procurement agen-
cies. Prices for these purchases are based on the relatively high average
price of past years. Output above the contracted amount must be sold by
peasants directly on the free market, but the Government will intervene to
purchase grain if the price falls to the original quota procurement price.
Thus, a considerably larger portion of basic crop production will be produced
for and traded on markets with flexible prices.
10.       The momentum of urban reforms has continued with significant
progress on several fronts. In enterprise management, the focus has been on
broadening and delineating the decisionmaking authority of urban enterprises.
Profit retentior. now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial



- 4 -
enterprises and to nonindustrial sectors like transport, commerce, construc-
tion, and other services. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as
well as a variety of joint ventures between them and state enterprises, have
grown rapidly (the number employed in urban individual enterprises rose from
150,000 in 1978 to 3.4 million in 1984).
11.       In financial reforms, the most important new development has been
the implementation of a prafit tax system to replace profit remittances by
state enterprises to the government budget. Though moat enterprises have
switched to this system, the benefits have been limited because financial
discipline at the enterprise level remains weak. Efforts have been made to
strengthen accounting and auditing systems and more strictly enforce existing
financial regulations, but the expectation resains strong that the Government
will subsidize losses.
12.       Progress has also been made with price reform.  The majority of
agriculture commodity prices were decontrolled even before the recent change
in pricing and procurement of grain. Prices of many consumer goods are also
set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating prices"
(up to 20% above or below official prices) are now allowed for many industrial
producer goods (either for all output or for output above the mandatory plan
target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw materials (which
in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized basic consumer
goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to implement,
hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living standards
and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some price
rises have occurred (e.g., for coal and petroleum), and, moreover, the share
of free-market transactions, at largely uncontrolled prices, has increased in
recent years. Gradually over time, a two-tier system is emerging; a large but
shrinking share of the total supply of most important goods is subject to
mandatory plan allocation and administratively set prices, while at the margin
a substantial and growing share is allocated by the market mechanism, largely
at flexible prices. This pattern may permit China to "grow out of the plan"
in a relatively smooth transition, though there are obvious threats to this
strategy arising from the strong incentive for arbitrage between planned and
unplanned realms.
13.       The Government recognizes the need to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management and has taken some steps to do so. The People's Bank
of China was established as a separate central bank at the beginning of 1984,
with its commercial banking functions taken on by the newly created Industrial
and Commercial Bank of China. In 1985, new methods of credit planning and
control were introduced and redeposit requirements were introduced for the
specialized banks. Interest rates (including deposit rates) were also raised
in 1985, with some move toward unification of rates and development of a term
structure resembling that in other countries. Technical transformation loans
with a maturity less than one year and loans for working capital now carry the
same 7.9% interest rate while loans of longer maturity carry higher rates, up
to 10.8% for 10-year loans. However, interest rates on budgetary capital
construction loans (formerly grants) remain low, and there is a variety of
directed credit schemes. On the external side, greater use is now being made
of the exchange rate. The old internal settlement rate was abolished at the



- 5 -
beginning of 1985, and between January 1985 and the present, the Rerminbi has
been devalued three times, most recently in July, by 16X against the US
dollar. Despite these changes, progress in perfecting new indirect levers of
control has been slow. Recent difficulties in securing macroeconomic balance
highlight the need to strengthen institutions and macroeconomic management
tools (including monetary, fiscal, and exchange rate instruments) for a
decentralized and more market-oriented economy.
Long-Term Issues and Prospects
14.       In April 1986, a national Party conference adopted the new Seventh
Five-Year Plan covering the period 1986-90. The Plan reaffirms the commitment
to economic reform and provides guidelines for future reform and development.
Target growth rates (7% p.a. for industry, 6Z for agriculture, 7.5Z for CNP)
are below rates of growth achieved with the Sixth Five-Year Plan, investment
is to be restrained in the next few years, and emphasis is to be placed upon
quality rather than quantity of output. It is thought that slower growth will
facilitate reform and help maintain macroeconomic balance.
15.       The Plan identifies three main areas of reform.  First, enterprise
management and incentives are to be improved by: giving enterprises greater
autonomy in production, pricing, and employment decisions; lowering and
equalizing taxes; increasing competition; increasing accountability for
performance; and reforming personnel procedures. In addition, more small
state enterprises will be turned over to collective or individual management
through contracts or leases. Second, the role of the market is to be further
extended, and market networks strengthened. The scope of mandatory planning
will be further reduced, and markets for capital, technology, and labor will
gradually be developed. Third, the emphasis of planning will shift from
detailed administrative control to indirect macroeconomic control through
economic policy. To this end a series of mutually reinforcing reforms in the
planning, pricing, fiscal, banking, and labor and wage systems will be intro-
duced during the plan period.
16.       Specific policy measures will take time to design and implement,
however. Many of the reforms required will be d5fficult. Since reforms in
different areas are closely interrelated, appropriate sequencing and coordina-
tion are essential. For example, price reform in the absence of improvements
in enterprise financial discipline will have limited benefits, yet tighter
financial discipline and more profit-oriented behavior would exacerbate the
adverse impact of distorted prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocation
system to promote greater labor mobility will be incomplete without eliminat-
ing many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises (which now provide
housing, medical care, and pensions for their workers and in many cases educa-
tion and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them with Government-
supported social service programs.
17.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means GDP growth of well over
6% p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as
continued high saving and investment rates. The Plan recognizes there must be
major structural changes in the economy over the next two decades, including a



reduction in the share of agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and
services (which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization.
There will also be a shift within agriculture, away from grain and basic crops
and into cash crops and animal husbandry. The new plan will emphasize
development of the service sector, mainLy through removing restrictions on
collective and individual activity. Urban development will focus on small and
medium-sized cities and towns, while restrictions on growth of large urban
areas will continue.
18.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve-
ments in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In energy, short-
ages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain growth
of transport and commercial infrastructure. Without large new investments and
improved efficiency, economic growth will lag. In mobilizing resources in all
these areas, China could profitabLy make use of foreign borrowing. Finally,
the rising share of the elderly in China's population (related to the slowdown
in population growth) means that more resources will have to be devoted to
maintaining their consumption levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
19.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problems which can be solved only by coordi-
nated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management, and
social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education and
training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial. Back-
ward technology and inefficient use of existing technology must be addressed
by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and transfer
of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories, suboptimal
scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in general are
related problems.
20.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a bene-
ficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to the
fore. Management of a reformed economy with indirect fiscal, monetary, and
other instruments is a major issue (see para. 15 above). In this context,
maintaining an adequate saving rate (since the Government no longer accounts
for the bulk of aggregate saving) and avoiding inflation (as well as deep
cyclical downturns) will be major goals. Assuring an adequate minimum
standard of living for the population and an appropriate level of social
services will become a major challenge, as enterprise and rural communal
responsibilities in these areas are reduced. The problem of poor, backward
rural areas in various parts of the country will continue to require atten-
tion. Redistributing financial resources to these areas through the fiscal
system, easing restrictions on migration out of the poorest areas, and lower-
ing nonagricultural wages to make investment in them more attractive are some
options for alleviating poverty.
21.       In order to mobilize the external resources needed for rapid,
sustained growth the Plan calls for export growth of 40-50% over the next five
years to reach $38 billion; greater efforts to attract foreign investment; and



increased but cautious commercial borrowing. Imports are expected to reach
$45 billion by 1990, implying a fairly slow growth rate of 4% per annum but on
a very high base volume of imports in 1984-86. By implication, the Plan calls
for continued borrowing on the world capital markets through the end of the
decade. Under this scenario China's current account deficit would average
around $7-8 billion p.a. during the remainder of this decade, equivalent to
about 1-2% of CNP. This implies that the present debt service ratio would
increase by 1990, although it would remain below the 15% ceiling given in the
Plan. If China's exports grew more slowly, imports would probably have to be
cut back, because a higher borrowing target although feasible, might not be
comfortable in terms of debt service indicators. This highlights the need for
continued export growth in order to meet other Plan objectives and to service
present and future commercial borrowing. The Plan recognizes that flexible
use of exchange rate and pricing policies will be needed to encourage export
growth.
22.       Even with continued good export performance, China will have
substantial external capital requirements during the remainder of the decade,
and access to concessionary capital will continue to play an important role in
sustaining China's growth. China is still one of the poorer countries of the
world, but its access to concessionary capital for financing development and
modernization is limited. Apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount
of concessionary capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other
bilateral donors and will probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a.
during the rest of the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       To achieve the target growth rates envisioned in the Seventh Five-
Year Plan, to increase efficiency, and to maintain equity in distribution,
China will need continuing economic reforms. China will need to import more
technology, increase trade, and expand investment. In the next few years,
therefore, the Bank can best assist China by increasing its access to foreign
technology and capital and supporting the implementation of reforms that will
help to increase the efficiency of resource use and reduce poverty.
24.       To address China's objective of updating technology, the Bank will
play the role of an i rmediary. In transportation, energy, industry, agri-
culture and social set :s, the Bank will contribute to technology transfer by
bringing the Bank's exzj1rience to bear on project design and implementation
and by helping China to seek appropriate technical solutions through interna-
tional competitive bidding, training, and foreign technical assistance.
25.       Bank assistance will be closely linked with the Government's reform
efforts. There are five major elements common to both rural and urban reform
in China that will be the focus of the Bank's involvement. First, institu-
tional change, involving both the separation of economic and administrative
functions and further decentralization of decisionmaking, will extend to every
sector in which the Bank is involved. Second, financial sector reform,
primarily development of financial institutions, has become a focus of Bank



- 8 -
assistance. Third, improving planning and project analysis will be critical
to reform in sectors such as agriculture and industry, where decisions are now
being made by household. and independent enterprises, as well as in infra-
structure where direct government involvement will be required. The Bank vill
therefore continue its emphasis on introducing appraisal methods and financial
planning as well as analysis of intersectoral issues. Fourth, the Bank will
be involved in the Covernment's major program of price reform and development
of indirect levers such as control via money, credit and fiscal policies. And
finally, the Bank will support reforms in health, education and other social
services and measures, in particular, to address the problems of poor regions.
Economic and Sector Work
26.       The Bank's economic and sector work in China aims at expanding the
understanding of the structure and direction of the Chinese cLconomy and of the
tools of economic management. This work provides a foundation for Bank Group
lending and for the dialogue with the Government on development options and
policies. The Bank's program of economic and sector work in China is in four
main areas. The first consists of studies aimed at providing timely advice on
the macrosystemic elements of economic reform. Past work has included two
major economic reports, and a third will be produced this year based on the
findings of an FY86 mission which studied the evolving processes of mobiliza-
tion, intermediation and allocation of investment resources in China. A study
on policy options to reform China's external trade and borrowing regimes is
now underway and will be completed in FY87.
27.       A second area of the program is concerr-d with macroeconomic manage-
ment. Working in close cooperation with the IHF, the Bank will assist China
in examining mediumrterm macroeconomic prospects, with particular attention to
fiscal, balance of payments and external debt trends and related policy
issues. The Bank will also continue to organize seminars on macroeconomic
issues.
28.       The third area is sector analysis to provide support to the reform
process at the sectoral and micro levels, to strengthen sector planning and to
underpin the development of the Bank's lending program. Emphasis will be
given to sector work in industry, energy and transport, reflecting priorities
identified for the Seventh Five-Year Plan.
29.       The fourth area of economic and sector work is continued collabora-
tive economic study with the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and other
Chinese research institutions. This type of collaboration has proven to be an
effective means of introducing Chinese academics and technicians to modern
research concepts and techniques. A study of state enterprise management has
been completed, and work is now underway on a similar study of township and
village collective enterprises, which are expected to become increasingly
important industrial organizations in the reformed system.
Lending Operations
30.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in
May 1980, 43 projects involving lending of $4,266.1 million to China have been



.- 9 -
approved. Of the project., thirteen have been in the agriculture sector,
eleven in cnergy, six in transport, four in industry, four in education, two
each in health and technical cooperation and one in water supply. In FY85,
IFC made its first investment in China of $17.02 million for automoblle
manufacturing.
31.       In addition to the already approved Red Soils Area Development and
Shuikou Hydroelectric Projects and the proposed project, we expect to present
to the Board this year projects in port development, machine tools,
agriculture, urban sanitation and highway development. For FY87 and beyond,
we expect the lending progrsm for China to continue to grow from current
levels. Infrastructure projects in energy and transport will remain
priorities. Technical renovation of enterprises, particularly in industry,
will be given greater attention and support as will the regional approach to
project development, which is the basis of a proposed project to meet the
needs of Gansu province.
32.       In the energy sector, future Bank lending will be aimed at improving
efficiency of energy consumption and expanding energy production. For
example, in the coal subsector, we will assist in upgrading the facilities and
operations of existing mines and in transferring improved technology for mines
under construction or in operation. In power, we will assist China in tech-
nology transfer, system planning, staff training and institution building. In
the petroleum subsector, the rationale for project involvement will lie in the
identification, packaging and transfer of specialized technologies as well as
in the strengthening of investment planning and management capabilities.
33.       Future transport projects will be aimed at contributing to China's
efforts to efficiently meet the transport requirements of its growing
economy. In roads, major changes in organization and financing will be
required as a result of administrative decentralization and introduction of
the production responsibility system in rural areas. In railways, we will
focus on technologies to improve domestic production of railway equipment and
materials in addition to our work on line construction and electrification.
We also intend to broaden our involvement in ports to include coastal shipping
and inland water transport. For all transport subsectors, we will support
efforts to improve financial analysis and investment planning.
34.       Bank lending in industry will continue to support financial interme-
diaries which provide credit to state and collective enterprises. In addi-
tion, we will expand lending through direct and subsector operations to
upgrade technology, conserve energy, and improve overall organization and
management, particularly in fertilizer, cement, machine tools and other
capital goods industries.
35.       Agriculture lending will focus on developing institutions to provide
services to individual farmers and to monitor and stimulate change in the pace
and pattern of agricultural development. The shift from grant to loan finance
and the increased autonomy of the rural banking system will continue to be
supported through rural credit projects. We will also assist with the train-
ing, research, extension, and other service activities of the ministries
concerned with agriculture. In addition, we expect to finance programs for



- 10 -
specialized agricultural development such as livestock and for irrigation and
area development.
36.       Bank lending in education will suppport China's efforts to expand
and improve the quality of higher education, develop technical and vocational
education and strengthen basic education by improving training of teachers and
administrators, increasing domestic capacity to produce teaching materials and
educational equipment, and raising the quality of schools administration at
the provincial level.
37.       Project preparation in the urban sector is currently concentrated in
Shanghai on efforts to improve services, especially in environmental upgrad-
ing, and development of municipal institutions. Future lending is expected to
include support for development of medium-size and small urban areas in
specific provinces. In addition, we expect to continue lending for rural
water supply. Bank Lending in health will provide access to new medical
technologies for more efficient heaLth care in both the lingering problems of
communicable disease, particularly in poor rural areas, and the emerging
problems of chronic disease. This will involve further support for medical
training and planning and management of service delivery systems. Projects
will also support the reform of systems for supplying and financing health
services.
38.       Cofinancing with multilateral and bilateral agencies has been
arranged for projects in coal, power, transport, agriculture and rural water
supply and will remain a feature of our assistance program. We will explore
further options fcr cofinancing with export credit agencies. Commercial bank
cofinancing and the use of B-loans also appear viable, particularly as China
increases the overall volume of its foreign borrowing. In technical assist-
ance, we will continue to incorporate into projects components for training,
overseas study, and access to foreign expertise. In addition, we will
continue our close collaboration with UNDP particularly through our role as
executing agency for a second UNDP umbrella project in China. EDI activities
remain an important element of the Bank's program and in coming years will
provide an extensive program of policy seminars for senior Chinese officials,
and economic and financial management courses and sector-specific training for
officials from core and Line agencies.
Implementation
39.       Project implementation is generally proceeding well.  Most project
agencies, as well as the Ministry of Finance and the State Planning
Commission, have established and staffed offices to handle Bank projects.
Disbursement performance has also been satisfactory. Special accounts have
been established for a majority of the approved projects and have helped to
speed disbursements. In October 1985, the Bank opened a resident office in
Beijing to support further expansion of the lending program, accelerate
project preparation, improve project implementation and further economic and
sector work.



- 11 -
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Industrial Sector
40.       Structure and Performance.  China is one of the world's ten leading
industrial producers and provjler of the largest full-time industrial employ-
ment. Its industrial sector - is the most important productive sector and
source of development and represents over one third 7f GDP. The industrial
sector comprises 437,200 enterprises, mostly small 2 (99%), employing
63.4 million workers (13% of China's total labor force). State enterprises
constitute the sector's core, with 64,000 enterprises employing 35.9 million,
and producing 74% of total industrial output. Other industrial enterprises
comprise mainly urban and rural "collective" enterprises; these 352,000 units,
with an average employment of about 50 workers, are responsible for one-fourth
of total industrial output. Small private enterprises and village industries
have emerged in recent years as significant producers, with a contribution of
7.5% to total industrial output. Gross industrial output value of
Y 875.9 billion ($296 billion equivalent) in 1985 was shared almost equally by
the light (47%) and heavy (53%) industry subsectors.
41.       Growth of industrial output has accelerated, from 8.7% in 1980 to
14.0% each in 1984 and 1985, averaging 11.6% p.a. (in real terms) over the
1981-85 period. Investment in industry (including energy) increased from
Y 38.04 billion ($22.3 billion) in 1981 to Y 65.35 billion ($28.2 billion) in
1984. Light industry has received on average 22% of total industrial
investment, and has grown at an average rate of 9.4% p.a. (in real terms) over
1981-84. In 1984, output of collective enterprises increased in real terms by
28%, compared with the growth of state-owned industry by 11Z; growth in 1984
was evenly balanced between heavy and light industry, but the latter's growth
was slightly faster in 1985.
42.       Manufacturing output per worker is low in China.  It averaged
Y 11,090 ($3,960) in 1984, which was only one fourth of the average for middle
income countries and about 4% of that for industrialized economies. Perfor-
mance in terms of overall labor productivity and profit rate varies signifi-
cantly between state and collective enterprises and between light and heavy
industries. Light industry, which accounts for only 29Z of total operating
capital (net fixed assets and working capital) in the industrial sector, has
shown the highest returns (profits and taxes) on capital. In terms of trends,
1/ In Chinese statistics, industry comprises manufacturing, energy (coal,
petroleum, power) and mining. It is divided between heavy industry
(energy, mining, metallurgy, building materials and most chemical and
engineering industries) and light industry (textiles and clothing, food
industries, light chemical and metal industries, and miscellaneous).
2/   In China, enterprises are classified as large, medium, or small but the
size (defined in terms of plant capacity or value of fixed assets) varies
from one industry to the other.



-- 12 -
heavy industry in recent years (1981-84) has improved its efficiency in the
use of production factors, with labor productivity increasing by 8.5% p.a.; on
the other hand, light industry has had only a marginal increase of 2.12 p.a.
in labor productivity despite large increases in operating capital, and its
global productivity of factors has declined. This reflects the need for
application of more modern and sophisticated technology and improvement of
efficiency in light industry.
43.       Chinese industry has remained essentially inward-oriented to meet
the rapidly growing demand of the domestic market for consumer goods in par-
tict.lar. The export/output ratio averages about 4.7% for manufacturing. The
overall growth rate of manufactured exports decreased in 1981-84 over 1978-81
period but exports have begun to grow rapidly in recent years and reached
Y 31.6 billion ($13.6 billion) in 1984 (+27% over 1983), with light industries
showing more rapid growth (+34% over 1983).
44.       Issues.  Growth of the industrial sector in China faces a number of
constraints. About 80% of industrial fixed assets are obsolete or outdated,
resulting in technical inefficiencies, including relatively high consumption
of raw materials and energy. There has been also a lack of incentives for
efficient use of inputs due to uneconomically low prices of energy supplies
and basic industrial intermediates. Chinese industrial organization is
characterized by planned production, decentralized control and poor communi-
cations, which create a highly complex and diversified system. However, the
availability and dissemination of relevant statistics and information are
often insufficient for effective detailed planning, and horizontal links
between ministries and enterprises at the central and provincial levels are
inadequate. As a result, supply and demand are often mismatched, and short-
ages of key inputs (e.g., energy supplies, raw materials, transport, qualified
managers and engineers) constrain production. Also, the overemphasis on
self-sufficiency at national and provincial levels has allowed the installa-
tion of costly plants of uneconomic size. Furthermore, the excessive focus of
the government plans on physical output and quantitative targets has Gften led
enterprises to neglect product quality and variety and to continue producing
substandard or outdated goods. As many prices were set in the 1950s (by
central or provincial authorities) and have changed little since then, the
structure of industrial prices is often at variance with today's production
costs or market scarcities. In general, consumer goods of light industries
are priced relatively high compared to basic, intermediate, and machinery
products of heavy industry.
45.       Continuing major efforts and policy reforms are needed to resolve
industrial sector issues. The basis of industrial growth has to shift from
capital accumulation to efficient use of available inputs, to free more
resources for other sectors (e.g., transport) and consumption. At the same
time, industry must remain a principal source of employment, and seek to
expand exports in more competitive world markets to pay for imports of modern
foreign technology and machinery. Also, the sector must respond to rising
living standards and a more sophisticated consumers' demand through improved
quality and variety of industrial products, as well as expanded production
volume.



- 13 -
46.       Government Policies and Strategy.  Recognizing the production
inefficiencies and technological backwardness of industry in China, the
Covernment introduced in 1979 an economic strategy which has emphasized tech-
nical updating of existing enterprises, particularly through importation of
foreign technology; development of more efficient light (consumer) industry
and of manufactured exports; and energy and materials conservation in
industry. The adjustment has been rather successful, particularly in shifting
emphasis towards light industry (which helped reduce energy consumption) and
in shifting investments from new capital construction towards modernization
projects. The Government has also approved, in October 1984, a broad frame-
work for industrial reform, to be progressiveLy implemented over the coming
years. The main thrust of the reform is to decentralize economic decision-
making and to separate it from administration and to rely more on the market
to provide incentives and guide decisions (see para. 8). These priorities
have been reiterated in the Seventh Five-Year Plan (see paras. 14-16).
The Financial Sector
47.       Role.  China's financial system is relatively underdeveloped because
until 1978 most fixed investment and even working capital were financed
through the budget. Under these conditions, the financial system served
mainly to channel budgetary funds for approved purposes and to help control
state and collective enterprises. More recently, increased attention has been
paid to using banks to mobilize savings, increase investment efficiency, and
provide a detailed review of project proposals independent of the enterprises
and their supervisory agencies.
48.       Institutional Structure.  China's banking system consists of a small
number of nationwide specialized banks with extensive branch networks, under
the supervision of the People's Bank of China (PBC) which serves as the
country's central bank (see para. 13). The Industrial and Commercial Bank of
China (ICBC), established at the beginning of 1984, accepts deposits and
provides short-term working capital loans and medium--term modernization loans
in local currency. The Bank of China (BOC), also under the aegis of PBC,
serves as a commercial bank for foreign exchange transactions and provides
loans in foreign exchange. The Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) performs
banking and financial administration functions similar to ICBC's but serves
mainly China's rural areas. The People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC),
under the aegis of the Ministry of Finance, is the nation's investment bank
specialized in financing capital construction projects with budget appropr-
iations and loans. Finally, the China Investment Bank (CIB), created in 1981
under the aegis of the Ministry of Finance and PCBC, is the only industrial
development finance institution in China which bases its investment decisions
on generally accepted project appraisal criteria. While different banks are
specialized in terms of activities and clientele, there is some overlap,
particularly in financing of fixed investment in industry. This overlap is
leading to increasing competition among different banks to finance attractive
industrial projects.
49.       Investment Finance.  Fixed investment in China is financed from a
variety of sources: state budget grants, extra-budgetary funds of various
government agencies, internal resources of enterprises, domestic bank loans



- 14 -
and foreign loans. The share financed by state budget grants has fallen
sharply from 75% in 1970 to 45% in 1980 and 35Z in 1984. Correspondingly, the
share of self-financing by enterprises, local authorities, and other agencies
rose from 241 in 1970 to 37% in 1980 and 431 in 1984. Domestic currency bank
loans, negligible in the late 1970s, have been financing an increasing share
of fixed investments, reaching about 15% in recent years; foreign currency
loans, also negligible in the late 1970s, accounted for 6-71 of the total in
1982-84.
50.       BOC is the primary source of foreign exchange loans for Chinese
enterprises. Its foreign exchange loan approvals and disbursements were
$3.36 billion and $3.25 billion, respectively, in 1985. CIB's foreign
exchange loan approvals and disbursements at $295.3 million and $117.7 mil-
lion, respectiveLy, in 1985 were a small fraction of BOC's lending.  Substan-
tial financing of imported equipment is also made through conversion of
domestic currency loans from PCBC and ICBC into foreign exchange using
government resources. Two main issues concerning the foreign exchange lending
system are the loan repayment in foreign exchange and the foreign exchange
retention system. Project entities borrowing from certain sources of foreign
exchange, including CIB, must repay in foreign currency, from either their own
export earnings or those of a parent or other related organization having
foreign exchange. However, other projects, financed under special or directed
credit programs, often on concessional terms, may be exempt from this require-
ment. Similarly, the policy to allow local governments and, to a lesser
extent, enterprises to retain a portion of their foreign exchange export
earnings, and to allocate "quotas" to draw foreign exchange from BOC to pay
for their imports, has also contributed to excessive compartmentalization and
consequently to inefficiencies. These issues are being addressed in the
context of the Bank's policy dialogue with the Government; the completion of a
financial sector report later this year will offer a further opportunity to
discuss them.
51.       Interest Rates.  Nearly all domestic interest rates in China are set
by administrative decree, with some variation permitted within an allowed
band. Lending rates to industry have been generally positive in real terms
and were increased substantially in 1985 to make enterprises more conscious
of, and sensitive to, the cost of capital. Except for the low rates of 2.4%
to 4.2% p.a. charged for construction investments (typically civil works for
infrastructure development), domestic interest rates have had, since April
1985, a rational term structure with a rising yield curve. Deposit rates for
enterprises and agencies are 1.8% p.a. for demand deposits and 4.3% to 5.76%
p.a. for time deposits, depending on maturity. Working capital loans carry a
rate of 7.92% p.a. and loans for modernization have rates ranging from 7.92%
p.a. for a one-year term to 10.80% p.a. for 10-year or longer terms.
52.       Lending rates on foreign currency loans are set partly by reference
to international costs.  BOC provides some loans at interest rates that
fluctuate with rates in the international markets. Its present six-monthly
adjustable interest rate (effective October 1986) for 5-year US dollar
denominated loans is 7.43%. BOC also lends substantial amounts at low subsi-
dized rates out of special allocations made by the Government for specific
high priority projects.  The China Investment Bank, which makes mediumrterm



- 15 -
loans at fixed interest rates, increased its rate from 81 p.a. to 8.5% p.a. in
July 1986; this rate would also be applicable to the proposed project
(para. 67). Foreign capital from concessionary bilateral sources is generally
passed on to Chinese project entities at the same interest rate that China
pays to the foreign lender. Despite the progress made in rationalizing and
unifying the structure of interest rates for deposits and domestic currency
loans, China still needs to further develop a more consistent interest rate
policy, in particular for foreign exchange loans, as part of its financial,
banking and other economic reforms. This too will be further addressed
following completion of the financial sector report (para. 50).
Bank Group Objectives and Role
53.       The Bank Group's principal objective in industry and finance is to
support the program of adjustment and reform by concentrating on areas where
the Bank Group has extensive prior experience and expertise. The focus is on
improving policies and institutions, upgrading technology, conserving energy
and materials, and promoting exports. So far, the Bank Group's industrial
lending operations have included-(i) three industrial credit projects (CIB I,
Credit 1313/Loan 2226-CHA, for a total of $70.6 million equivalent approved in
June 1984; CIB II, Credit 1491/Loan 2434-CiA, for a total of $175 million
equivalent approved in June 1984; and CIB III, Credit 1663/Loan 2659-CHA, for
a total of $100 million equivalent approved in March 1986) and (ii) a loan of
$97 million approved in May 1985 (Loan 2541-CHA) for chemical fertilizer plant
rehabilitation and modernization, with particular emphasis on energy savings.
The utilization of industrial credits is generally satisfactory and CIB has
made considerable progress since its foundation (paras. 62-64). Other
industrial projects in an advanced stage of processing include the moderniza-
tion of the machine tools subsector in Shanghai, the upgrading of technology
in cement production, and the development of rural light industries in Gansu,
one of the poorer provinces of China. The Governm ent has indicated its
interest in further expanding Bank Group financing for projects in industry
during the Seventh Five-Year Plan period (1986-90). The industry program is
being supported through both sector studies and collaborative research
(para. 26-29).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
54.       CIB was established by the Government with advice and assistance
from the Bank primarily for financing small- and mediur-sized projects for
industrial modernization. It has received so far three loans/credits from the
Bank Group in an aggregate amount of $345.6 million equivalent. The last
project (CIB III) was approved by the Executive Directors in March 1986 as an
interim operation to meet the urgent short-term foreign exchange needs of
CIB. This fourth loan to CIB was planned in the context of discussions on a
number of institutional changes and issues relating to CIB's long-term
financial planning. CIB has now taken several measures toward institutional
strengthening and improved financial planning and, in consultation with the
Bank, is developing an operational plan to include additional measures (see



- 16 -
paras. 57, 59, 62, and 65). The proposed project was appraised in July
1986. Negotiations were held in Washington from January 9 to 15, 1987 with
the Chinese delegation headed by Ms. Sheng Jinsia of the Ministry of
Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 6412-CHA) dated January 29, 1987 is
being distributed separately.
Project Objectives and Description
55.       The basic purpose of the proposed project is to assist the Govern-
ment to promote and implement technology upgrading and modernization in
industry, to build up sound procedures and competent staff for project
appraisal and investment financing, and to improve financial intermediation
practices. The project would also further strengthen the role and influence
of CIB in the decisionmaking process of concerned government agencies and
industrial enterprises relating to industrial investments. More specifically,
the project objectives would be to:
(a) guide and assist CIB in its further institutional development and,
thus, to enable it to efficiently carry out its operations and to
effectively perform as a model and catalyst in the ongoing reform of
the investment design and selection system in China; and
(b) continue financing high priority industrial investments through a
general line of credit, and provide CIB with assistance and guidance
in its project selection and appraisal work.
56.       In order to achieve the above objectives, the proposed project
includes a line of credit of $299.3 million for CIB and technical assistance
of $700,000 to support the implementation of a mediumr-term program of training
abroad for CIB's staff. During negotiations, appropriate assurances were
obtained from CIB for the implementation of its operational plan for institu-
tional development.
China Investment Bank (CIB)
57.       The Institution:  CIB is a government-owned development finance
institution with a paid-in capital of Y 900 million ($243 million equiva-
lent). It is administratively under the leadership and supervisory responsi-
bility of HOF and remains closely tied with PCBC, from whom most of its
internal staffing, both at central and provincial levels, has been drawn. Its
organization consists of Ci) a head office in Beijing which performs an admin-
istrative and supervisory role for its entire operation, and (ii) provincial
branch offices, which have the direct responsibility for screening, appraisal
and supervision of projects. The branch offices have expanded from three in
1982 to 19 at present and some have also established subbranches. All final
decisions on loan approvals are taken at the head office. While this should
lead to consistency in the quality of appraisal and uniformity in decision-
making, it may also result in over-concentration of authority at the head
office and possible delays in project financing. CIB therefore needs to grant
limited authority to branches, based on their individual capability, for
decisions on individual loans, and this is included in its operational plan
(para. 56).



- 17 -
58.       CIB's 33-member Board of Directors has remained structurally the
same since 1983; it is chaired by the President of PCBC and is represented by
the Government departments and banks concerned. The Board meets once a year
and has delegated most of its operational decision making authority to a
Managing Committee consisting of the Board Chairman, the three Deputy Chairmen
and eight Managing Directors.
59.       Until recently, day-to-day management of the CIB head office was the
responsibility of the two Vice Presidents. They worked in close coordination
under the general guidance of the President who was also a Vice President of
PCBC. In August 1986, CIB appointed a fulL-time President as the chief execu-
tive officer (CEO). The two Vice Presidents continue to have the responsi-
bility of supervising specific departments. Each branch office is also headed
by a President (also a Vice President of the local branch of PCBC) but in
general the day-to-day management rests with a Vice President (exceptions are
two branches where presidents are full-time CEOs). For the future, while CIB
should maintain close operational cooperation with PCBC as it continues to
develop, it should also become more and more administratively independent at
the branch level by having full-time top management which focuses exclusively
on CIB affairs. CIB's operational plan (para. 56) therefore provides for the
eventual appointment of full-time presidents; this would be accomplished in
1987-88. The total number of staff at the head office has increased from 33
in 1984 to 66 in mid-1986. Similarly, the staff at the branches has also
increased from 84 to 490 during the period. The staff includes 77 engineers
and 266 economists/financial analysts, who are directly involved in project
appraisal and supervision work. According to its operational plan CIB would
increase its staff at the head office and branches to 130 and 770, respective-
ly, by the end of 1988. The staff size would be adequate to cope with CIB's
growing operations. However, middle level managers and professional staff
generally lack advanced financial skills and experience and thus need
intensive training (para. 63).
60.       CIB's major operational and financial policies are outlined in its
Policy Statement, and specific areas of emphasis for 1986-88 are given in its
Development Strategy Statement. CIB will continue to focus on small- and
mediumr-sized projects aimed at expansion, modernization and technical trans-
formation of existing enterprises, particularly in the light industry sec-
tor. It has been agreed that its total foreign currency lending to any one
project would not exceed $15 million and total local currency lending would
not exceed Y 30 million ($8.1 million equivalent). For larger projects, CIE
would seek cofinancing with other lending institutions in China or abroad.
61.       CIB's project appraisal is undertaken in accordance with the
Industrial Projects Appraisal Manual which has been prepared with Bank assist-
ance. While considerable progress has been achieved by CIB in the short time
since its inception in evaluating and appraising investment projects, the
quality of appraisal continues to be uneven, particularly with respect to the
analysis of markets and considerations relating to the scale of investment,
which, as proposed is often too small to realize full scale economies. These
problems often reflect constraints as perceived by the manufacturer or the
local planning office (whose sponsorship and approval of the proposed invest-
ment is also required). The project supervision of CIB follows its Project



- 18 -
Supervision Manual and is quite intensive. It includes frequent staff visits
to projects and periodical reports by enterprises to CIB to facilitate the
monitoring of progress on project implementation and operations.
62.       Since its establishment in 1981, CIB has made considerable progress
in its institutional development. It has adopted effective lending proce-
dures, modern project appraisal techniques and comprehensive project implemen-
tation and supervision guidelines. However, the large expansion of CIB's
branch network and lending operations within a short period of time have
worked against a balanced institutional growth and maintenance of consistent
quality standards in operations. CIB has to alleviate these problems through
further institutional strengthening. It has already taken several measures in
this regard, including the reorganization of the head office in late 1985,
resulting in the establishment of separate departments for economic, financial
and market evaluation, technical appraisal, and supervision of projects;
appointment of a full-time President; appointment of a new Vice President with
overall responsibility for lending operations; filling of some of the manage-
rial vacancies; increase in staff at both the head office and branches;
training of staff in financial institutions in other countries; preparation of
a new financial management information system; and introduction of medium-term
financial planning. Additional measures to be taken by CIB include: (i)
filLing of the remaining vacancies of heads of Supervision, Planning and
TechnicaL Departments, appointment of one more well-experienced person for the
financial management information system and a full-time internal auditor by
June 30, 1987; (ii) adoption of the new financial management information
system, taking into account the Bank's comments; (iii) establishment of a
separate unit for economic and research work with a clearly defined role and
adequate staff by June 30, 1987; and (iv) implementation of a medium-term
program of training abroad for its staff, agreed with the Bank. Items (i),
(iii) and (iv) above are included in CIB's operational plan (para. 56) while
item (ii) would be a condition of effectiveness. The training program would
provide for practical training for up to six months for 38 staff at selected
foreign institutions, including development banks and commercial banks, and
advanced training ranging from six months to two years for 30 staff. The
total foreign exchange cost of the program is estimated at $1 million. An
amount of $300,000 was already provided in CIB I and $700,000 is proposed as
technical assistance in CIB IV.
Operations and Financial Position
63.       CIB's foreign exchange loan approvals in 1985 increased by 225%
(from $66 million in 1984 to $215 million in 1985) and its local currency loan
approvals increased by 140Z (from Y 139 million in 1984 to Y 334 million in
1985). The loan demand has continued to increase, and the approved subproject
pipeline was $137 million as of June 30, 1986. CIB's foreign currency loan
approvals were projected to decrease slightly (-21) in 1986 ($95.5 million in
January-June 1986) due to a resource constraint, but would increase by about
9.3% p.a. in 1987-90. The local currency loan approvals would also decrease
(-10%) in 1986 (Y 109.6 million in January-June 1986) but would increase by
10.7% p.a. in 1987-90.



- 19 -
64.       CIB's net profit was Y 5.7 million in 1984 and Y 17.7 million in
1985, and was based on an average spread on all foreign exchange and local
currency loans in 1985 of around 4%, compared with administrative expenses
representing only 0.41 of its total assets. The high spread on local currency
loans (8x) made out of cost-free capital resources more than offset the low
spread (0.62) on foreign currency loans made out of CIB I and II. However,
the faster increase in foreign currency portfolio in 1986 would bring down the
average spread to 1.4%. It would, however, improve gradually in later years
reaching 2.9% in 1990 due to higher onlending rates for subsequent loans.
CIB's long-term debt to equity ratio was 1.2:1 at the end of 1984 and 1.7:1 at
the end of 1985, well within the 5:1 limit provided under CIB I and II. CIB's
debt service coverage ratio at the end of 1985 was 5.9 times. CIB's projected
financial statements for 1986-90 show that its net income after taxes will
increase irom Y 23.0 million to Y 31.1 million during the period. The rate of
return on average equity would decline from the range of 3.0-4.2% during
1985-87 to 1.8-2.2% during 1988-90 due to payment of income tar starting in
1988 after a tax hoLiday of five years. CIB's low return is basically
attributable to the fact that CIB's equity base is extraordinarily large and
the Government does not want CIB to maximize its profit. During 1986-90, the
average growth of CIB's long-term loan portfolio would be 33.2% p.a. (from
Y 1,511.3 million to Y 4,813.0 million), while its long-term debt would
increase by 38.5% p.a. (from Y 1,321.0 million to Y 4,864.9 million). The
quality of portfolio would continue to be satisfactory. Long-term debt to
equity ratio would change from 1.5:1 in 1985 to 1.9:1 in 1987 and to 2.5:1 in
1990 which would still be well within the limit of 5:1 as agreed between the
Bank and CIB. The projections indicate that CIB's financial position would
remain strong during 1986-90.
Resource Position
65.       As agreed under CIB III, CIB entered the foreign capital market in
1986 and borrowed Yen 10 billion (about $60 million equivalent) in Japan. The
Yen loan and CIB III ($100 million equivalent) are expected to be fully
committed by the end of 1986 on the basis of CIB's subloan approvals. The
local currency resources would have an uncommitted balance of Y 43.3 million
at the end of 1986. CIB would need $490 million in 1987-88 to make foreign
exchange loan approvals in the two years, and to meet the resource gap
($30 million on approval basis) expected at the end of 1986. CIB plans to
meet these foreign exchange requirements through the proposed Bank loan and
credit (CIB IV) totalling $300 million equivalent (of which $50 million is
expected to be used in early 1989), borrowings of $130 million in the inter-
national market, and relending of foreign exchange loan recoveries of $65.6
million. In addition, CIB will be able to release $46 million out of its
foreign exchange working capital for lending operations in 1987-88. The
borrowing of $130 million in the international capital market in 1987-88 and
the utilization of Bank funds over the 2-1/2-year period covered by the pro-
posed loan is included in CIB's operational plan. CIB's local currency needs
will be met by the Government through share capital increase.



- 20 -
Utilization of Earlier Loans/Cnedits
66.       As of June 30, 1986, approvals under CIB I and CIB II totaled
$238.7 million for 209 subprojects. Both loans/credits have been fully
committed. Disbursement, after a slow start in 1983 and 1984, accelerated
markedly in 1985 and 1986 and reached a cumulative total of $156.7 million at
the end of June 1986 and were 69% and 45%, respectively, of the committed
amounts of CIB I and II. The average size of all the Bank-financed subloans
is $1.2 million. The subloans are for 3-10 years, including grace periods
from one to three years. Most subborrowers are state enterprises, with a few
urban collectives. The projected economic rates of return range from a
minimum of 12% to 45Z and the financial rates of return from 13% to 35%.
CIB III ($100 million) became effective on July 3, 1986 and commitments and
disbursements amounted to $28.7 million (for 40 subprojects) and $7.4 million,
respectively, as of September 30, 1986. The overall utilization of
loans/credits by CIB is satisfactory.
Hain Features of the Proposed Loan/Credit
67.       The People's Republic of China will be the borrower of the proposed
loan/credit of $300 million equivalent. The Government will onlend the
proceeds of the Loan/credit to CIB under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank/Association, the signing of which would be a
condition of loan/credit effectiveness. State Council approval of the
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement would also be conditions
of effectiveness. As under previous CIB operations both the Bank and IDA
funds would be onlent by the Government to CIB for 20 years, including five
years of grace, with CIB allowed to rollover the funds. The repayment period
for subloans shall normally not extend beyond seven years, and, in any case,
shall not exceed 12 years. The Government will charge CIB a fixed interest
rate of 1% p.a. and the Bank and IDA commitment charges, thus bearing the
variable interest risk as under earlier loans/credits to CIB. CIB will onlend
the loan proceeds to the final borrowers at a fixed interest rate of 8.5%
p.a. The subsidiary loan to CIB and the subloans will be denominated in US
dollars valued at the date of withdrawal. The Government will thus bear the
foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and (a) the currency pool index
(for the Bank loan portion) and (b) the SDR (for the IDA credit portion). The
subborrowers will carry the foreign exchange risk between the US$ and the
Yuan. Appropriate assurances on these onlending and relending terms were
obtained from the Government and CIB at negotiations.
68.       The onlending rate of 8.5% p.a. would be positive in real terms over
the life of CIB's subloans, given projected world and domestic inflation
rates. China's inflation rate was about 3Z p.a. in 1981-84, 8.8% in 1985, and
is projected to be 51 in 1986, 7% in 1987, 6.5% in 1988-90 and 4.5% in
1991-95. The onlending rate would also be consistent with the interest rate
charged by other financial institutions in China on US dollar denominated
foreign currency loans. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) CIB would afford the Bank an opportunity to exchange views with it prior
to making any change in its interest rates; and (b) from time to time at the
request of any party, the Government and CIB would exchange views with the
Bank on the interest rates to be charged by CIB in its lending operations in



- 21 -
light of CIB's cost of funds and profitability and of movements ir interest
and inflation rates in China and internationally.
69.       All subprojects to be financed under the loan/credit will meet the
following eligibility criteria: (i) subprojects will pertain to the manufac-
turing subsectors; (ii) subprojects in heavy industry wiLl be only for moder-
nization and energy/material saving; (iii) the beneficiary enterprises will
have a satisfactory projected financial situation; and (iv) the subprojects
will have a minimum FRR and ERR of 12Z. As provided in its Development
Strategy Statement, CIB may onlend in foreign exchange up to $15 million for
an individual subproject but the average subloan size is estimated at about
$1.7 million.
70.       As agreed under earlier credits/loans to CIB, the free limit would
relate to each branch.  Under CIB II and III, the Shanghai and Tianjin
branches had a free limit of $2 million and other branches had a free limit of
$1 million. On the basis of quality of appraisal and the size of subprojects
in the pipeline at each branch, the free limit is proposed to be set at
$2.5 million for Shanghai, Tianjin and Jiangsu branches, and at $1.5 million
for Hebei, Hubei, Fujian, Liaoning, Anhui and Zhejiang branches. All other
branches (10) would have a free limit of $1 million. The aggregate free limit
would be $150 million. The first three subprojects proposed to be financed by
a new branch, regardless of size, would be treated as above free limit and
would need the prior approval of the Bank. An estimated 35% of subprojects by
number and 60% by amount would be above the free limits. The last date of
submission of subprojects will be June 30, 1989.
Procurement and Disbursements
71.       Individual contracts of $4 million equivalent and above would be
awarded after international competitive bidding (ICB) has been carried out
according to the Bank Procurement Guidelines. Local bidders would be granted
the standard preference, equivalent to custom/import duties or 15% of cif
cost, whichever is lower. Contracts below $4 million would be awarded after
evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from at least 3 qualified
suppliers. The Bank's standard review and approval (from bidding documents to
contract awards) would be confined to ICB packages of above $4 million. Pro-
curement contracts between $1 and $4 million would be subject to post-review
by the Bank, and CIB would maintain all relevant documents in its records for
this purpose. Only about half a dozen contracts are expected to exceed
$4 million.
72.       Disbursements would be made against standard documentation for 100%
of: (a) foreign expenditures on goods and services for subprojects; (b) the
ex-factory price of locally manufactured equipment procured through ICB; (c)
interest during construction on subloans payable by an investment enterprise;
and (d) expenditures on overseas training. Disbursements for contracts of or
above $2CO,ODO will be made against full documentation. Disbursements for
contracts of less than $200,000 and for overseas training will be made against
statements of expenditures, with the full documentation held by CIB for review
by Bank supervision missions. Disbursements are expected to be completed by
June 30, 1992. In order to allow CIB to use more of its own working capital



- 22 -
in foreign exchange for lending purposes, and to facilitate project
disbursements, a special account to be maintained in US dollars with an
authorized allocation of the US dollar equivalent of SDR 12.3 million would be
established under the loan/credit in a bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank/Association. Applications for replenishment will be
submitted quarterly or when the amounts withdrawn are equal to 50% of the
initial deposit, whichever comes sooner.
Audit and Accounts
73.       CIB would submit to the Bank/Association (i) detailed semiannual
reports on its operations and its financial results and situation; (ii)
progress reports on all subprojects under implementation and a list of
subprojects in the pipeline; (iii) an annual audit report on CIB's accounts,
and Special Account and Statements of Expenditure audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank/Association, within six months after the end
of each fiscal year; and (iv) a project completion report within six months
after completion of disbursements of CIB IV. Semiannual reports would also be
submitted to the Bank on completed subprojects during the first three years of
subprojects' operations. CIB's accounts are now being audited by the State
Audit Administration which has received technical assistance from the Bank
Group for conducting audit. Its audit report on CIB is generally
satisfactory.
Benefits and Risks
74.       CIB is the only development finance institution in China whose
investment decisions are guided by comprehensive appraisal of projects includ-
ing economic cost-benefit analysis. It is still a relatively new institution,
though its growth--both in terms of organizational structure and level of
operations--has been very rapid. In order to avoid the adverse effect of
rapid growth on the quality of operations, CIB needs to further develop its
management and staff capability, improve its financial planning, strengthen
its management information system, and enhance its resource mobilization
efforts by tapping the international capital markets. The project would help
the institutional strengthening of CIB, particularly in the above areas,
through technical assistance, various measures agreed between the
Bank/Association and CIB during project preparation and supervision by Bank
staff, including review of above-free limit subprojects. CIB's appraisal and
supervision work would also have positive demonstration effect in the long
term on central and local planning agencies and other banks engaged in similar
activities in China.
75.       The main beneficiaries of the credit line would be small- and
medium-sized projects in the light industry category. This industry is rela-
tively more labor-intensive but its labor productivity has shown only a margi-
nal increase and its global productivity of factors has been negative in
recent years. The project would provide foreign exchange for the import of
modern technology which would help to improve the productivity and efficiency
of light industry. The project would also contribute to material and energy
savings by assistance to subprojects in the heavy industry category. The
total number of beneficiary subprojects is estimated at about 175.



- 23 -
76.       The direct project-related risk, are minimal and mainly relate to
the implementation of CIB's institution-building program. However, the com-
mitment of CIB management to various measures agreed with the Bank/Association
and the close supervision by Bank staff would ensure uatisfactory progress in
this area. The long-term indirect risks relate to the future role of CIB
which, in turn, is directly influenced by the Government's economic reform
policies. The Government has followed more liberal investment and enterprise
management policies since 1979 and these enable CIB to take autonomous
decisions on selection and financing of projects, following generally accepted
evaluation criteria. A reversal in the Government's policies is unlikely and
this was reconfirmed by the Government at the time of introduction of the
Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90). The Government's support to CIB is also
evident from the fact that CIB is one of the three financial institutions in
China which have been authorized recently to borrow in foreign exchange from
international capital markets.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of tht Bank and the Association and recommend that
the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
February 6, 1987
Washington, D.C.



-24 -
-24-                                     A~~~~~~~~NNEX I
Ta-e 1 of ~3
POpu1aEtJM.,..   1,01  miLliLD (mid-1953)
CNG per rap .a:  SVfiq .2983)
CHINA - ECONINlC INDICATORS
Amu"OJh   - 19B5                       _   Annual srouth ratds (2)
(ol1'inw;US$ at                      Actual                                       Projected
1ndicotar                    cm- *   price).'b tMlTr    11   1982   1983   19U ^    198S        m6  -1            T987     1989      1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTR /a
Cross dosea.c product          -265.300       6.6    4.9    7.0    9.6   14.0       12.3      6.8       b.8       6.8     6.8       6.8
Agrcul....                    81 710      -1.7    6I.4  11.2    9.0   13.9       14.2      4.9       4.9       4.9     4.9       4.9
Industry                      133.985      12.3    2.3    7.3   11.4   16.6       18.0      7.7       7.7       7.7     7.7       7.7
Services                       49.610       8.2    8.9    3.3    6.5    7.7       10.0      7.9       7.9       7.9     7.9       7.9
Consumption                     175,780       9.1    5.2    5.9    9.0   12.5       12.5      8.9       7.4       7.4     7.4       7.1
Cross investment                102,100       1.3   -1.B   10.9   15.2   20.7       40.0      2.3       8.8       4.8     5.1       5.7
Exports of GNFS /a               27,382      17.8   16.7    0.6    9.5   13.0        5.0      8.9       0.8       8.8     8.S       8.8
Imports of CNFS 7                40,158      16.1   -6.7   -5.7   28.1   25.9       60.1      0.0       5.8       5.9     6.0       6.2
Cross national mavin_e           90,110      -0.2    3.6   17.0   12.0   :7.0       21.0      2.4       5.1       5.1     5.6       6.2
PRICES
CDP deflator (19V.-  00)                   100.0  101.B  101.7  102.9  107.6    113.1    118.7    124.7    131.0    137.5    144.4
Exchange race ('fan/Un1/                     1.50   1.70   1.89   1.95   2.32       2.95     3.45      3.70     3.70     3.70      3.70
Share Pf CDP at market pricee (C)                  Average aunul Increase (2)
5ztcurrent price)                         at conata_t 1981 prle      _ _        _
-f960 -lyltl fg7e   1975     1985   19yo       196D-70  190-75  1975-80  1980-8   1984-89  1989-94
Cross domestic preodct la       100.0   ki..0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0         6.1      5.2       6.6      9.0      7.3       6.6
Agriculture                    23.0   35.0   32.8   32.0   30.8   31.3          6.7      3.4      3.3      10.1      5.0      4.8
Industry                       48.0   A'.0   45.8   48.D   47.1   49.9          7.8      7.5      9.9       9.4      8.6      7.4
Services                       29.0   24.0   21.4   20.0   21.1   18.5          3.4      4.5      5.4       6.6      8.2      7.5
Conaumption                      62.4   70.8   69.1   71.3   66.1   69.3          6.1      4.7       6.4      8.1      8.4       6.8
Gross iuvestmenCt                37.8   29.2   31.1   30.0   38.4   30.9          9.5      6.9       9.7     11.3      5.1       6.1
Exports of CGES                   4.8    2.8    5.3    7.1   10.4   10.0         -1.5     10.8       5.7     12.3      8.0       7.7
Iports of GNFS                   5.0    2.7    5.5    8.4   15.1   10.2          1.2     13.9      13.0     12.2      8.4      7.4
Gross national savings           37.7   29.2   30.9   28.9   33.9   30.7          9.1      6.7       7.2     14.0      4.8       6.2
As 2 of CDP
1957           1970            1980           1983            1985
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                     28.7           29.6            30.6           27.8            29.3
Current expenditures                                 15.1           15.7            23.1           21.6            21.5
Surplus (+) or deficit C-)  -13.6                                  +13.9            +7.5           +6.2            +7.8
Capital expenditure                                  13.7           13.3            11.0             7.8            8.2
Foreign financiag                                     0.7            n.a.            0.5            0.2             0.4
1960-70     1970-75     1975-80      1980-84     1984-89      1989-94
THER INDlICATRS
GNP growth rate (I)                                  6.1         5.t          6.4          9.2         7.2         6.6
GNP per cp!.;a growte -pate (2)                      3.5         2.9          5.2          7.9         6.1         5.5
Energy consau.ptizi. igrowth rate (Z)               -0.3         9.2          5.8          4.1         5.3         4.8
[COR            .                                    3.3         4.7         5.1           3.8        4.0          4.6
Marginal savin_., rate                               0.4         0.4          0.3          0.3         0.2         0.3
Import elasticity                                    0.2         2.7          2.0          1.4         1.1         1.2
/a  Data for 1981 end 1982 are iron different aources; data for 1982 exclude re-exports.
Lasc Asia and 1mcilic Regien l Offlce
August 15, 1986
}:~ ~ ~~i



-25  -                                                      ANNEX I
Page2 of 3
Population        1,019 million (mid-1983)
GNP per capita: $300 (1953)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amunt - 1965                   Annual growth rites (Z) (at constant prices) /b
(Cillion   $ at                                  Actual                              Prol.
current prices)          1980      1981     1982      1983       984      198       1
EXTERNAL TRADE /s
Merchandise exports                         25,108               14.8      17.3       5.5      10.1      10.4      0.4       R.7
Primary                                   13,762                1.5      -1.4       3.9      14.6      9.6      22.3       6.8
Manufactures                              11,346               32.2      36.2       6.6       7.0      11.1    -18.0      10.4
Merchandise imports                         38,231                b.8       7.2       0.2      29.7      22.3     44.9       6.2
Food                                       1,174                9.1      68.3      42.9    -30.9    -24.9    -46.5         7.1
Petroleum                                    152               52.6    -65.5    130.0    -43.5        30.8      20.4      35.5
Machinery and equipment                   14,790               11.4      19.0    -41.7       34.7     82.3      73.4       5.1
Others                                    21,915                0.9    -13.5        7.1      71.7      16.8     36.4       6.3
PRICES
Export price Index (1980-100)                                   100.0    102.7       98.7     88.8      90.5      83.6    126.0
Import price lndex (1980-100)                                   100.0    104.5       89.2      76.7     78.4      75.1    112.0
Terns of trade index (19W0-10)                                 100.0      98.3    110.7    115.9    115.4    111.3    112.5
Ceipositlon of .erchandise trade (S)                     Average annual increase (1)
(at current prices)                                 (at constlt prices)
1978         1981         1985        1990       1980-84            1984-89              1989-94
Exports                           100.0        100.0        100.0       100.0        10.8                 7.9                 7.6
Primary                         53.4         46.6         54.8        42.1          6.7                6.4                  6.1
Manufactuires                   46.6          53.4         45.2        57.9        15.2                9.4                  8.2
Imports                          100.0        100.0          OO.0       100.0        14.9                8.5                  7.5
Food                            12.8          17.4          3.6         9.7        13.9                8.9                  8.5
Petroleum                        0.5          0.4          0.4          0.9        13.0               17.2                 16.1
Machinery and equipment          18.9         29.2         38.7        33.3        2'.6                12.0                 6.8
Others                          67.9         53.0          57.3        56.1        20.5                6.7                  7.5
Share of trade with          Share of trs4! with           Share of trade with
industrial                   developing                   the USSR and
co1ntries (97  countries (1)                           Eastern Europe (2)
1977     1980      1983      1977      1980      1983      1977      1980     1983
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                       36.4     44.7      42.1      46.8      48.7      53.2      16.8       6.6      4.7
Impor s                                      63.1      73.6      69.0      20.7      19.7      24.5      16.2      6.7       6.5
/a  Based on cuscoms statistics.  Exports, f.o.b., imports, f.o0b.
lb Growths in 1985 of iteaized exports And imports are preliminary estimate.
East Asia mnd Pacific Regional Office
August 15, 1986



- 26-                                                 ANNX 
Piqe.3 of 3
Population    :  1,019 million (mid-1983)
OMP per capita: S300 (19R3)
CHINA - RALANCE OF PAYMFNTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Miltions of USS at current prices)
Actual                                   Projected
Indicator                                     1978    1979    198n    1981        1982       1953      1984        1985     1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and nonfactor services  10,370  14,983  20,324  24,423    23,637    23,156    26,716           27,5BS   50,590
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b. /a          9,607  13,65-  1B,492  22,027    21,125    20,707    23,905        25,108   52,130
Imports of goods and nonfactor services  11,66R  17,759  24,058l  23,446    18,900    20,711    26,748         40,290   63,1A0
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b. Ia         10,745  16,212  22,049  21,047    16,876    18,717    23,59n        3R,231   56,950
Net factor Income from abroad                  -B      -77    -117    -200        452      1,253     1,620         413     -850
Net transfers                                 597     656      640     464        530       436        304         171      300
Current account balance                      -7n9  -2,197  -3,211   1,241       5,719     4,164      1,892    -11,989   -5,140
Private direct investeent (net)                 -       -       57     265        430       636      1,1on       1,058    1,950
Official grant aid (net)                        -        -      21      156       -44         75       137          72      140
MLT loans (net)                               549   3,815   1,069      310        3n0       927       -145       3,269    4,450
Disbursements                               549   3,895   1,670   1,655       2,481     1,600        718      5,016    6,390
Amortization                                  -      50      60l   1,34R      2,1RO       673        863        996    1,940
Other capital /b                             -628  -1,021   2,455      -47       -115    -1,672    -2.R89        2,239        -
Change In reserves
("-" indicating increase)                   788    -597    -391  -I,q25    -6,291    -4,130          -95      4,fi0n   -1,400
International reserves                      6,677   7,274   7,665   9,590    15,8R1    20,011    20,106        15,506   23,500
Of which:  Cold /c                        5,120   5,120   5,120   5,12n       5,120     5,12n      5.120      5,120    5,120
Reserves as months of imports                 6.2      4.5     8.5     4.R       1n.1       11.7       9.1         4.5      4.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT Id
Gross disbursement                             ..       ..      ..       .
Official grants                              ..       ..      ..
Concesstonal loans                           ..       ..      ..       .
DAC
IDA
Other
N-3nconcessional loans                       ..       ..       .
Official export credits                    ..       ..      ..
IBRD
Other multilateral                         ..      ..
Private                                    ..       ..      ..      _.         ..         .
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed              549   4,364   5,433   5,261         6.5       6.9        7.5       11.6
Official                                   ..       ..      ..      ..         ..        ..         ..        4.7
Private                                    ..      ..       ..      ..         ..        ..         ..        6.9
Undihbursed debt                             ..       ..      ..      ..
Debt service
Total service payments                       ..       ..      ..
Interest                                   ..      ..       ..
Payments as Z of exports                    0.4     2.7      6.3     9.0       11.6       4.9        5.0        8A.
Average interest rate of new loans (Z)          -        - -         -         -              -          -          -
Average naturity of new loans (years)           -        -       -        -         -         -          -           -
/a  Data for 1978-81 are not comparable with those of 1982-85 because of a difference in their sources.  The latter exclude
re-exports.
lb  Includes net use of IMF credit and net flow of short-tern capital.
T7 Valued at US$402/troy ounce.
T7  Excludes short-tern loans (one year or less).
East Asia and Pacific Regional nffice
Auptst 15, 1986



-27  -                                               ANix II
STATUS OF BANKC GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPuBLIC or CHINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1986)
Loan or                                                                                  USS million
Credit                                                                          Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year       Borrower                Purpose                            bank    IDA    Undisbursed/a
2021/1167    1981 People's Republic of China University Development                100.0    100.0         O.F
1261    1982  People's Republic of China  North China Plain Agriculture          -      60.0       14.1
2207    1982 People'a Republic of China  Three Porte                           69.0       -         20.5
1297    1982  People's Republic of China  Agric. Education 6 Research            -      75.1        16.5
2228(1313    1902  People's Republic of China  Industrial Credit                    40.6     30.0        19.0
2231    1983  People's Republic of China  Dsqing Petroleum                    162.4       -         63.6
2252    1983  People's Republic of China  Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum          100.8       -         63.1
2261/1347    1983  People's Republic of China  Heilongjiang Land Reclamation        25.3     45.0        17.5-
1411    19B3  People's Republic of China  Polytechnic/TV Universitv              -      85.0       39.9
1412    1983  People's Republic of China  Technical Cooperation                  -      10.0         3.9
1417    1984  People's Republic of China  Rubber Development                     -     100.0       47.9
2382    1984  People's Republie of China  Lubuge Hydroelectric                145.4       -         94.1
2394    1984  People's Republic of China  Railway                             220.0       -         67.8
1662    198A  People's Republic of China  Rural Credit                           -      50.0        29.1
1472    1984  People's Republic of China  Rural Health 4 Medical Educ.           -      85.0        48.8
2426    19864  People's Republic of Cbina  Karamay Petroleum                   99.5       -         67.3
243411491    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Industrial Credit            105.0      70.0       71.5
244&/1500    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Education        45.3      23.5       28.2
1516    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Research           -      25.0        15.n
1551    1985  People's Republic of China  Second University Development          -     145.0       1646.
2493    1985  People's Republic of China  Second Power                        117.0        -        98.3
2501    1985  People's Republic of China  Changeun (Luan) Coal Mining         126.0       -        122.5
1557    1985  People's Republic of China  Seeds                                  -      40.n        40.6
1578    1985  People's Republic of China  Rural Water Supply                     -      80.0        73.3
253911594    1985  People's Republic of China  Highway                              42.6      30.0       67.3
2540    1985  People's Republic of China  Second Railwvay                     235.0       -        229.2
2541    1985  People's Republic of China  Fertilizer Rehabilitation and        97.0       -         93.2
Energy Saving
1605    1985  People's Republic of China  Forestry Development                   -      47.3        52.5
2579/1606    1985  People-s Republic of Chine  Pishihsns-Chsahu Area Developrent  17.0        75.n      103.1
2580    1985  People's Republic of China  Weiyuan Gas Field Technical          25.0       -         23.n
Assistance
1642    1986  Feople's Republic of China  Second Rural Credit                    -      90.0        92.4
2659/1663    1986  People's Republic of China  Third Industrial Credit              75.0      25.0       94.4
1664    1986  People's Republic of China  Second Technical Cooperation           -      20.0        20.1
1671    1986  People's Republic of China  Provincial Universities                -     120.0        13.1
267811680    198  People's Republic of China  Third Railway                       160.0      70.0      236.5
2689/b  1986  People's Republic of China  Tianjin Port                        130.0       -        130.0
1689    1986  People's Republic of China  Freshwater Fisheries                   -      60.0        63.1
2706    1986  People's Republic of China  Beilungang Thermal Power            225.0       -        225.0
2707    1986  People's Republic of China  Yantan Hydroelectric                 52.0       -         52.0
2708    1986  People's Republic of China  Liaodong Bav Petroleurn Appraisal   30.0        -         3n.0
2723/1713/b  1986  People's Republic of China  Rural Health 6 Prev. Mled.           15.0     65.n        e.
1737/b  1987  People's Republic of China  Red Soils                              -      40.0        41.3
Total                                                                            2,459.9  1.h6b.62
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                   2,459.9  1,66f.2
Total 'Indisbursed                                                               1,7R3.0  1,214.0    2,QQ7.0
B.  STATEME1T OF IFC INVEST! ESTS
las ol bepteFmer it', 19RT1)
Amount in LUSS million
Year   Oblicor                                     Type of husinecs               Loan     Ecultv      Total
1985   Guangzhou and Peugeot Automobile Co.        Automobile                       i5.n      2.0        17.0
Total Cross Commitments                                                             15.0       2.0       17.0
Less cancelleations terninations,
repayaenc and sales
Total Commitments now held by IFC                                                   15.0       2.0       17.0
Total Undisbursed                                                                   15.0       2.n       17.0
/a  As credics are denorinated In SDRs (since IDA Replenishment VI). 'indisbursed SDR credit balances are con-
verned to dollars at the current exchange rate between the dollar and the 5DR. In some cases, therefore.
the undisbursed balance my Indicate a dollar amount greater than time original principal credit amount
expressed in dollars.
rb  Not yet effective.
Notes:  1. The status of the projects listed in Statement A is described in a separate report nn all Bank/IDA
financlal projects In expcution, which is updated twlrp "earlv and circuilated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2. Subsequent to the above date of Statement A, a loan of 5S2f4.0 million was approved for the Shuikou
Hydroelectric Power Project.



-28-                    ~~~~ANEX III
-28-
CHINA
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREITi PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project                3 mnths
(b)  Project prepared by                              sank/CIB
(c)  First mission                                    A April 1986
(d)  First presented to Bank                 :        December 1985
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Kission          :        July 1986
(f)  Completion of negotiations              :        January 1987
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness           :        June 1987
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) CIB to implement its operational plan for institutional development
(para. 56);
(b) CIB onlending rate to be 8.5Z p.a. (para. 67);
(c) Adoption of the new financial managememt information system, taking
into account the Bank's comments (para. 62);
(d) Consultation between the Government, CIB and the Bank on CIB's
interest rates (para. 68).



MAP SECTION



IBRD 20187
uro                  11D                   120*.                  tsr
CHINA                                     N
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJEC                                                       U.S.S.R.
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK IV                 /
*  CISBHranch Olflce       ir
A _ -    Province Boundariles                            H /  HEONGJIA .G
-* -   International Boundaries   -%                       A0Harbin
Ius--r--):'
OE   *r      c- /\   XLChang0un
MONGOLIA                                                                 M. f   PES
\                    j          6              flihe~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~nyang 0  \:    p_PLE'S , 
__ t                             / #  g \   >   I AOMING  V/REPtJBLIC"
/ -wwc J    flfurCC5hot      ,--:  6F KOREA  ,JAP N.
<                     I ~~~~~~~~~Hohhot                            poRal
'-A
4D'                                           -,                    K     '         Cm^<.t -t
(IAVJi      C } j  -.4jT   t?   .-    I Seoul
-~~~'-  \  a~~~~~~~~ ~HANilX                                          -l REP.
-~~~~'1-v AJ    -\        AC ~~~~~~ShIjkazhuangA~-HO
N             Taiyuma?          ,sSo        x                    c i~rr3.-~  --OF
x   \St    ( Q ) v r <~~~~ar               HNNG-.                    KOREA.
'       /                            )AC9a                      YELLOK          EA,
'Y                        /        I                                       -  ~{       
(1tA /                             SEA          Z_,
0 I AGHM I               -    '                                                               JAPA
>0                                                                       1          r~~~~~~~0Xia
HENAN             JIANGSU
7     ho4a2S X-tt  ANJUle             Sha
5/ct/i/AN           ,~             KOW1    f           H npho.       EAST CHINA
r v                      Chengdu               -                 K'ZHnicAN NG -:
'A                4 sofS%>-<Tw               -'<-   0Naonchih
r-J |v e  9   -   t  ChangAh  /JIANCXJ  A  .4
.    >   /  >   j   Hi/NAN  7           2    Fuzhou >
\  / .->~7  GUIZHOU  .._                      <         e<
tsp-         K                    /~~~~~
r                                           17'                   K  !   
Y UNNA N                    \G UANGOONG 2 
A~~ ~~~~~~~~ G IA    /Guangzttttu
S                             0             _.i                                                2 HON'GKONG,-.U.K.  20
( &;.   VIET NAM             K r            HONGKI4G,PORT.
BURMAK                                 j ,a_ *a ,o
rr 7 LA
.SJ'\ PEOPLE'S                                    SOUTH CHINA nain:1uana,s ee
IDEM. REP'                                      SEA
THAILAND                                                                                          18
NOVEMBER 1985






