      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      LS: Basic Education FTI Grant (P116426)



                                                                                                              Report Number : ICRR0020077


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                            Project Name
 P116426                                               LS: Basic Education FTI Grant

 Country                                               Practice Area(Lead)
 Lesotho                                               Education



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                    Closing Date (Original)                                      Total Project Cost (USD)
  TF-97043                                            31-May-2013                                                             26,800,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                  Closing Date (Actual)
  30-Jun-2010                                         30-Apr-2015

                                                            IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                  Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                                    0.00                                               20,000,000.00

  Revised Commitment                                                     0.00                                               19,593,431.06

  Actual                                                                 0.00                                               19,593,431.06




 Sector(s)
 Primary education(80%):Pre-primary education(20%)

 Theme(s)
 Education for all(100%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                        ICR Review Coordinator             Group
 Judith Hahn Gaubatz                Judyth L. Twigg                    Joy Behrens                        IEGPS2




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 7) and the Grant Agreement (page 3), the project objectives were as follows:

       • To provide improved facilities at existing primary schools;
       • To support and contribute to expanding access to pre-primary education; and
       • To support improvements in quality of teaching.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          LS: Basic Education FTI Grant (P116426)




     The project objectives were not revised; however, targets for key outcome indicators were significantly revised downward in May 2013, at
     which point approximately 7.2% of the grant had disbursed.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     Yes


     Did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
     No



c.   Components
     (Note: The appraised and actual costs below reflect Catalytic Fund grant financing only, and do not include co-financing from Irish Aid.)
     Component 1: Improve the Quality of Primary School Infrastructure (Appraisal: US$ 9.1 million; Actual: US$ 9.2 million): This component
     aimed to improve the quality of physical facilities through the provision of new classrooms, latrine blocks, and furniture. An important
     feature of this component was to decentralize responsibilities for bidding, certification and supervision of civil works, in an effort to lower
     costs and accelerate the pace of construction. Activities also included training for district officials, school officials, and small-scale
     contractors.
     Component 2: Support and Contribution to the Expansion of Pre-Primary Education (Appraisal: US$ 1.5 million; Actual: US$ 1.8 million):
     This component aimed to support the expansion of pre-primary education, particularly for poor and vulnerable children, in an effort to
     improve retention and repetition rates in later primary school years. Pre-primary education was to be provided through "reception
     classes" consisting of an extra room in the existing primary school for children aged five years old. Activities included training for reception
     class care-givers and provision of learning materials and food supplements.
     Component 3: Contribution to Improvements in Quality of Teaching (Appraisal: US$ 7.8 million; Actual: US$ 9.2 million): This component
     aimed to improve quality in primary schools, primarily through teacher development in designated "difficult" schools (i.e. small, mountain
     schools) and curriculum revision. The first set of activities was to include provision of incentive bonuses to teachers who accept posts in
     "difficult" schools, and upgrading the skills of unqualified individuals currently teaching in difficult schools through training. The activities in
     this component were intended as a pilot, in order to identify the most cost-effective approach to attracting and retaining qualified teachers
     in difficult schools; hence, this component also included a planned impact evaluation. The second set of activities was to include the
     development of teaching materials with an increased focus on early literacy and numeracy, training for teachers, and provision of
     textbooks for core subjects.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Project cost

          • The actual project cost was US$ 25.1 million, compared to the appraised amount of US$ 26.8 million. The latter included
          approximately US$ 1.1 million in taxes and duties.
          • Actual costs for Component 3 (Improvements in Quality of Teaching) were higher than appraised due to the increased focus on
          these interventions, to balance the decreased scope of construction activities.



     Financing

          • The actual grant financing from the Bank was US$ 19.6 million (according to the Bank's project portal), compared to the appraised
          amount of US$ 20.0 million. The ICR (page 23) reports the actual amount as US$ 20.0 million; the ICR does not provide an
          explanation for the discrepancy.
          • The government of Ireland committed to provide US$ 6.8 million at the time of project appraisal. Following the Mid-Term Review in
          November 2012, the government of Ireland withdrew from the country and therefore discontinued its co-financing support, with a final
          disbursement of US$ 4.9 million.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       LS: Basic Education FTI Grant (P116426)




    Borrower contribution

       • There was no planned Borrower contribution.



    Dates

       • May 2013: The project was restructured due to slow progress in implementation. The scope of the components was significantly
       changed to account for low capacity of the Ministry of Education and Training (MoET). Targets for key outcome indicators
       were revised accordingly. The project closing date was also extended to November 2014 to allow completion of restructured
       activities.
       • October 2014: The project closing date was extended to April 2015 to allow completion of activities.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   The project objectives were highly relevant at project approval and remained as such until project closing. The primary education sector in
   Lesotho has seen a marked increase in net enrollment due to the introduction of free primary education in 2000. However, quality of
   education remains a significant challenge, as reflected by high repetition rates, high pupil:teacher ratios, high proportion of unqualified
   teachers, and sub-standard school facilities. The need to improve the physical state of school facilities is acute: as noted in the PAD (page
   9), "the terrain and climate in Lesotho make provision of adequate shelter an unusually important factor in the attendance and retention of
   pupils." At the time of project appraisal, more than half of the classrooms in use were open-air or had temporary roofs, thereby falling short of
   the required standards. In addition, quality of instruction was inadequate due to low qualifications of teachers (particularly in the remote
   mountains regions) and poor/unavailable curriculum materials. The government's education strategic plan for 2005-2015 prioritizes provision
   of quality education to ensure completion of primary school and access to early childhood education. The Bank's most recent
   Country Partnership Strategy for 2010-2014, effective at project effectiveness and closing, similarly identifies improved access to and quality of
   education as key outcomes in human development.

   The project objectives remained highly relevant under the revised targets.




   Rating                                                                              Revised Rating
   High                                                                                High


b. Relevance of Design

   The project design was substantially likely to achieve the stated objectives. Interventions to improve the quality of school infrastructure
   centered on the construction of additional classrooms and latrines to existing schools. This was a relevant strategic decision given the limited
   fiscal budget and capacity to construct new school buildings altogether. Project schools were selected according to current enrollment and
   infrastructure needs, with an explicit focus on remote mountainous areas. Interventions to improve the quality of teaching included measures to
   attract teachers to the "difficult" schools and upgrade skills of unqualified teachers, as well as support for curriculum revision and textbook
   distribution. Lastly, project activities supported increased access to pre-primary education, which was considered to be a factor in improving
   lower primary grade repetition rates and learning outcomes. These activities included training for pre-primary caregivers and provision of
   materials. However, the likelihood of achieving original targets for infrastructure activities was unclear, given low capacity of the implementing
   entities.

   The project design remained substantially relevant under the revised targets, including increased likelihood of achieving the downwardly revised
   targets.
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            LS: Basic Education FTI Grant (P116426)




       Rating                                                                              Revised Rating
       Substantial                                                                         Substantial




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     To provide improved facilities at existing primary schools.


    Rationale
    Outputs

        • Construction and furnishing of 143 classrooms in 30 existing schools (original target: 330; revised target: 135).
        • Construction of 93 latrine blocks (original target: 100; revised target: 87).
        • Training to MoET staff and contractors on technical aspects of school construction.



    Outcomes

        • See information reported above on number of classrooms and latrine blocks constructed. There is no information provided in the ICR
        on the quality of the infrastructure provided. The original indicator was as follows: "% of project schools meeting agreed standards."



    Achievement of the objective under the original targets is rated Modest due to significant shortfalls in achieving targets.


    Rating
    Modest




    Revised Objective
    n/a

    Revised Rationale
    (see outputs and outcomes with revised targets above)

    Achievement of the objective under revised targets is rated Substantial due to meeting of targets. Also, the ICR (page 15) reports that
    enrollment in the 30 project schools increased from 5,834 in 2013 to 5,948 in 2014. Though representative of only one year of data, the
    ICR (page 15) reports that this increase was "contrary to enrollment trends in other primary schools, which did not benefit from school
    construction under this project" and that school enrollment in non-project schools was declining on average 1.3 percent annually between
    2009 and 2014, although the school-age population was estimated to have grown 1.3 percent annually.




    Revised Rating
    Substantial
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            LS: Basic Education FTI Grant (P116426)




PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     To support and contribute to expanding access to pre-primary education.


    Rationale
    Outputs

        • Provision of support to 140 reception (pre-primary) classes in existing schools (original target: 120; revised target: 140). This support
        included provision of appropriate learning materials, training to pre-primary caregivers, and food supplements.



    Outcomes

        • The number of children enrolled in project-supported reception classes at the beginning of 2015 was 3,682. This achieved the
        original target of 3,600 and the revised target of 3,220. Approximately 60 percent of enrollment in pre-primary education
        nationwide took place in project-supported reception classes, although this still covers only about 5 percent of the age-5 population.



    Achievement of the objective under the original targets is rated Substantial due to enrollment of over 3,600 students, who otherwise would
    not have access to pre-primary education.


    Rating
    Substantial




    Revised Objective
    Not applicable; this objective was not changed. Outcome targets were revised.

    Revised Rationale
    (see outputs and outcomes under revised targets above)

    Achievement of the objective under the revised targets is rated Substantial due to enrollment of over 3,600 students, who otherwise would
    not have access to pre-primary education.




    Revised Rating
    Substantial

PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 3

    Objective
     To support improvements in quality of teaching.
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      LS: Basic Education FTI Grant (P116426)



Rationale
Outputs

   • Provision of incentive grants to 1,096 teachers to work in "difficult" schools (original target: 800; revised target: 1,000).
   • Supplemental distance training for 380 teachers working in "difficult" schools (original target: 800: revised target: 600). The shortfall
   was due to the suspension of the program in 2013 and 2014 over concerns about the distance training program's effectiveness and
   sustainability. The ICR does not report on whether these concerns were resolved.
   • Development of simplified curriculum focused on early reading and math. This curriculum, including assessment materials, was
   piloted in 70 schools.
   • Training of 11,158 teachers, principals, district education authorities, and inspectors in teaching methods adapted to the new
   curriculum (original target: 4,500; revised target: 6,515).
   • Purchase of 1.1 million textbooks, of which 928,276 were distributed (original target: 13,300; revised target: 913,300). Field visits
   confirmed that teachers were using the new textbooks.
   • Preparatory study on the development of a teacher qualification framework.
   • Baseline study to measure early grade literacy (grades 1-3).



However,

   • Baseline data on teaching and learning were collected but subsequently "misplaced" before being entered into the information
   system.



Outcomes

   • The pupil:qualified teacher ratio improved from 59:1 in 2010 to 45:1 in 2015. This achieved the target of 45:1.
   • The ICR also provides data on survival rates for primary school; however, given the time frame of the project, attribution of project
   interventions to these outcomes is not strong.



Achievement of this objective under original targets is rated Modest due to lack of clear evidence that the teaching materials, curricular
development, and training led to improved teaching practices and/or learning outcomes.


Rating
Modest




Revised Objective
Not applicable; this objective was not changed. Outcome targets were revised.

Revised Rationale
(see outputs and outcomes under revised targets above)

Achievement of this objective under revised targets remains Modest.




Revised Rating
Modest
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         LS: Basic Education FTI Grant (P116426)



5. Efficiency

 Efficiency of the project over the entire project period is rated Modest due to limited evidence on actual benefits realized, although the project
 achieved a number of targets in the delivery of outputs (classroom construction, textbooks, teacher bonuses).

 The project design featured a decentralized approach to classroom construction that was expected to reduce the cost of classroom
 construction. These design elements included procurement by district tender panels, use of standardized bid documentation and design, use
 of local and smaller contractors (with lower overhead and transport costs), and reduction in size of civil works lots. However, it is unlikely that
 these expected gains in efficiency were realized, given significant implementation delays and the subsequent decision to revert to a more
 centralized approach due to weak local capacity. The aforementioned delays included logistical challenges in construction work in remote
 rural areas and slow procurement processes due to weak capacity. A unit cost analysis of classroom construction (ICR, Annex 3) indicates
 comparable costs to other school construction programs within the country. The unit cost per classroom for this project was estimated at US$
 36,800, while unit costs for a government-financed classroom were US$ 48,000, another donor-financed classroom was US$ 24,117, and
 an international NGO-financed classroom was US$ 44,445. However, the number of classrooms actually constructed was significantly lower
 than appraised, due to the weak capacity, while the overall cost for this component remained the same.




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                               Rate Available?             Point value (%)                    *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                              0
 Appraisal                                                                 0
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

                                                                                                              0
 ICR Estimate                                                              0
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Project under original targets - Moderately Unsatisfactory
Relevance of the project objectives is rated High, and relevance of the project design is rated Substantial. Achievement of the objective to
provide improved facilities at existing primary schools is rated Modest due to significant shortfalls in meeting (original) targets. Achievement of
the objective to expand access to pre-primary education is rated Substantial due to evidence of increased enrollment. Achievement of the
objective to support improvements in the quality of teaching is rated Modest due to lack of clear evidence. Efficiency is rated Modest.

Project under revised targets - Moderately Satisfactory
Achievement of the objective to provide improved facilities at existing primary schools is rated Substantial due to meeting of revised
targets. Other ratings are the same as above.

Overall outcome rating - Moderately Satisfactory
According to harmonized OPCS/IEG guidelines, the combined outcome rating is determined by weighting the proportion of the grant that was
disbursed before and after the restructuring (revision of targets). The grant had disbursed only US$ 1.43 million out of US$ 20.0 million, or 7.2%,
at the time of restructuring. Therefore, the combined outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory, indicative of moderate shortcomings in the
project's preparation and implementation.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         LS: Basic Education FTI Grant (P116426)



a.     Outcome Rating
       Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Facilities are still operational, although there has been limited attention given to operations and maintenance matters. Financial responsibility for
reception classes has been absorbed into the MoET's own budget, which will contribute to sustainability of the pre-primary activities. However,
the teacher incentive scheme was ended with the project closing date, and it is unclear whether qualified teachers will remain in remote areas. A
follow-up Bank operation has been proposed in order to continue support to the primary education sector; however, this project is still in the
preparatory stages.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Substantial


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The original project implementation arrangements aimed to create efficiency and sustainability, as well as to accelerate construction, by
     contracting school construction activities to decentralized entities and small contracting firms that needed capacity building experience.
     However, these arrangements proved untenable due to continued weak capacity and the underestimation of the logistical challenges of
     completing civil works in rural mountainous areas. Although the former was recognized as a significant implementation risk, mitigation
     measures were inadequate. As noted in the ICR (page 8), there was inadequate analysis of decentralized capacity, and the expectation of
     implementing all activities within the three-year planned project period turned out to be unrealistic. Shortcomings in the results framework
     included a lack of indicators measuring outcomes, rather than simply outputs.



     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     Project implementation was affected early on by an unrelated incident in the country portfolio. A misappropriation of funds was flagged in a
     prior Bank education sector project, resulting in an internal Bank investigation. This led to a slow-down in implementation as the Bank team
     awaited findings of the investigation and possible implications for this project. This incident also created some tension between the Bank and
     the government. However, the Bank team used the opportunity afforded by the Mid-Term Review to recommend changes to the scope of
     activities, implementation arrangements, and M&E framework. The centralizing of procurement back to the MoET, clarification of the
     responsibilities of the main implementing unit in the MoET, and hiring of additional technical staff helped to accelerate the pace of activities,
     combined with an increased level of support from the Bank task team and management. Proactive efforts by the task team also helped to bring
     the project into safeguards compliance (see Section 11a), as the MoET had no previous experience in addressing the Bank's safeguard
     policies and had made limited progress in implementing safeguard measures during the initial project period.




     Quality of Supervision Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       LS: Basic Education FTI Grant (P116426)



9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The government has demonstrated strong commitment to implementing its primary education sector plan. Having introduced free primary
   education to raise the net enrollment rate, the government is now pursuing measures to improve quality of education, including among the
   most vulnerable populations in remote mountainous regions. It has provided a supportive and stable policy environment, although capacity
   remains a significant constraint.



   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The primary implementing agency was the Ministry of Education and Training (MoET). Although previous donor projects were
   implemented by a project management unit, efforts to build local capacity led to the decision to mainstream project implementation in the
   MoET. However, this led to significant implementation shortcomings, include extremely slow procurement (the use of decentralized tender
   panels for classroom construction was eventually discontinued) and the lack of an effective supervising entity for school infrastructure. A
   hybrid arrangement was eventually created (full-time project management unit integrated within the MoET) and implementation improved
   considerably, as reflected by the significantly improved pace of disbursement. The pace of classroom construction increased after the first
   restructuring when implementation arrangements were revised. This included the hiring of five civil works supervisors to closely monitor
   school construction sites. According to the ICR (page 11), this measure played a critical part in ensuring the meeting of construction
   targets by the end of the project period.

   There is inadequate information reported in the ICR on financial management performance to verify satisfactory performance.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The short-term, fast-track nature of the operation led to a focus on outputs as the key indicators, while actual outcomes were to be assessed
   through impact evaluations. However, some of the key indicators were not easily measured (decline in shortfall of classrooms, decline in
   shortfall of qualified teachers) and also lacked baseline figures. The evaluation design included an impact evaluation of the pilot teacher
   incentive program, an assessment of the reception classes, and a baseline survey on early literacy. Data were to be collected through the
   regular school census and joint sector reviews.




b. M&E Implementation
   The M&E framework was significantly revised during the project period, including the downward revision of targets for key indicators due to
   significant implementation problems prior to the first project restructuring. There was also a revision in the wording of indicators during the
   second restructuring. As reported in the ICR (page 10), the initial design of the teacher incentive evaluation needed to be revamped due to
   data collection challenges. Therefore, a new evaluation was designed and conducted, with the active participation of the MoET, which
   subsequently increased its M&E capacity; analysis of the data is still being undertaken. The baseline early reading assessment was also
   carried out; however, the results were misplaced before they could be entered into a database and the ICR does not report on any attempts to
   rebuild the baseline data.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          LS: Basic Education FTI Grant (P116426)




c. M&E Utilization
   Close monitoring of construction progress helped ensure completion of activities. Specifically, five additional supervisors were hired to
   monitor each school construction site bi-monthly, "which played a critical part in meeting the revised school classroom construction targets
   by the end of the project (ICR, page 11). Initial findings from the teacher incentive impact evaluation are being used to inform the design of
   the follow up Bank project (specific details are not provided in the ICR).




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as an Environmental Category "B" project, which triggered the safeguard policy on Environmental Assessment
   (OP/BP 4.01). An addendum to the existing Environmental and Social Monitoring Framework (from the prior education sector project) was
   completed. The MoET initially had very limited understanding of and experience with the Bank's safeguards policies. Therefore,
   documentation of safeguard measures was inadequate during the initial project period, including on community stakeholder engagement on
   civil works and soil erosion assessments. In addition, there were no safeguard ratings recorded in the implementation status reports.
   However, following the Mid-Term Review, the Bank team took proactive measures to bring the project into safeguards compliance,
   including the hiring of an engineering firm to undertake an environmental and social audit of civil works sites and the identification of
   remedial safeguards actions. According to the ICR (page 11), the MoET completed remedial actions as identified and finalized
   documentation of social safeguards to IDA's satisfaction.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Procurement: Due to the decision to mainstream donor project implementation into the MoET, rather than in a separate project management
   unit, fiduciary capacity was initially inadequate and led to significant implementation problems. However, a procurement consultant was
   eventually hired to support the procurement unit in the MoET, which led to marked improvement in the pace of disbursements and
   implementation. Another initial design measure to decentralize procurement for classroom construction led to implementation challenges, as
   most district-level tender panels had limited experience. The use of small procurement lots did lead to a wider market for contractor but,
   according to the ICR (page 12), did not necessarily reduce the cost and delivery time of construction or improve the quality of construction.
   Therefore, the decentralized arrangement was discontinued at the first restructuring.

   Financial management: There is limited information provided in the ICR on financial management performance. A supervision firm (to support
   management of infrastructure) was hired late into the project period, and then its contract was terminated for poor performance. A hybrid
   arrangement was finally created (full time project coordination unit integrated in the MoET), which provided improved implementation and
   fiduciary support to the project.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   None reported.




d. Other
    ---
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                    Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         LS: Basic Education FTI Grant (P116426)




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                     Reason for
Ratings                                      ICR                                  IEG
                                                                                                                     Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                      Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Risk to Development Outcome                  Substantial                         Substantial                         ---
Bank Performance                             Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Borrower Performance                         Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Quality of ICR                                                                   Substantial                         ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

Lessons drawn from the ICR (page 22), adapted by IEG:

     • Innovative institutional arrangements (to foster efficiency and sustainability) can be appropriate but require intensive analysis and
     preparation in the design stage. A phased approach may be particularly useful in order to quickly incorporate lessons learned.
     • A centralized procurement strategy for peripheral civil works, although initially counter-intuitive, can be more effective and efficient, since it
     consolidates small and scattered bids. In the case of this project, procurement for classrooms and latrines within the same schools was
     adequately managed in one lot.


In addition,

     • A teacher incentive program can be an effective approach to improving the quality of teaching in remote areas; however, the lack of
     sustainability of such a program and the lack of timely evaluation of the results detract from the apparent short-term success of the program
     in this case.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR does a commendable job in articulating the results chain (linkages between specific project activities and intended outcomes) and
focusing the analysis of achievements on plausible outcomes. It also clearly explains the rationale behind the various decisions made for the
project, such as the initial implementation arrangements for decentralized procurement/contracting, the switch back to centralized procurement,
re-allocations of project financing, realignment of implementing responsibilities, and revisions to the results framework. The analysis of
achievements for the first objective ("to provide improved facilities at existing primary schools") is notable for providing evidence of a
comparison group (enrollment trends in primary schools which did not benefit from school construction under this project).
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)        Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       LS: Basic Education FTI Grant (P116426)



a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
