OFFICIAL                      -4 voN,k4
DOCUMENTS
'The World Bank                                   1818 H Street N.W.      (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION             U.S.A.                  Cable Address: INDEVAS
May 7, 2013
Hon. Dr. Leketekete Victor Ketso
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Maseru, Lesotho
Excellency,
Kingdom of Lesotho: Education for All - Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Fund
Basic Education Project
(Grant No. TFO97043)
Amendment to the Grant Agreement
We refer to The Education for All - Fast Track Initiative, Catalytic Trust Fund
Basic Education Project Grant Agreement dated August 25, 2010, entered into between
the Kingdom of Lesotho (the "Recipient") and the International Development
Association ("World Bank") (the "Agreement").
We also refer to your letter dated March 7, 2013, requesting the World Bank to
extend the Closing Date of the Agreement and to revise the scope of the activities to align
them with the Recipient's implementation capacity. We are pleased to inform you that the
World Bank has agreed to your request. Therefore:
1. Part C of Section 2.01 of the Annex to the Agreement is amended to read as
follows:
"Part C: Contribution to Improvements in Quality of Teaching
Carrying out of a program aimed at improving learning outcomes in primary
schools; such program to include: (i) carrying out studies on (a) the conditions in
which education service are delivered, (b) teaching and learning skills developed
through school resources, (c) classroom-based observations, (d) assessment of
skills profiles and training needs, and (e) assessment of student outcomes
measurement; (ii) implementing measures designed to attract and/or retain more
qualified teachers to schools located in the most remote and/or difficult to access
areas of the Recipient's territory; (iii) providing training to teachers aimed at
improving literacy and numeracy teaching skills; (iv) providing teaching
materials; (v) developing text books; (vi) conducting preparatory study to the
development of a teacher's qualification framework; and (vii) carrying out an
evaluation of the Recipient's Distance Teacher Education Program (DTED)."
RCA 248423. LJ WUI 64145 Q FAX (202) 477-6391


﻿Hon. Dr. Leketekete Victor Ketso
-2-
2. Section 3.03 of the Annex to the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"3.03. Withdrawal Period. The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c)
of the Standard Conditions is November 30, 2014."
All other terms of the Agreement shall remain the same.
Please confirm your understanding to the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us one of the enclosed originals of this Amendment.
Upon receipt by the Bank of the original of this Amendment countersigned by you, this
Amendment will become effective as of the countersignature.
Sincerely,
Asad Alam
Country Director
Lesotho, Botswana, Namibia, South Africa and Swaziland
CONFIRMED AND AGREED:
KINGDOM OF LE OTHO
By:
Name:    _     __
Title:       g7i___,_o_ ;F___ly_ny_a
Date:        0 NJ D2 -,
cc: Honorable Makabelo Priscilla Mosothoane Minister of Education and Training
Mrs. Keratile Thabane, Principal Secretary Ministry of Education and Training
Mr. Mosito Khethisa, Principal Secretary Ministry of Finance
Mr. Denny Hamachila Kalyalya, Executive Director for Lesotho, World Bank Group


