                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                          Report No: 34558

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (GRTD-H0050)

                                     ON A

                                    GRANT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                        CONGO, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF

                                    FOR AN

                      EMERGENCY EARLY RECOVERY PROJECT




                                November 1, 2005




Private Sector Unit
Africa Region

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2005)

                                    Currency Unit = Congolese Francs (CF)
                                               CF1 = US$ 0.00216
                                            US$ 1 = CF 463.6

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                     January 1    December 31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB    African Development Bank
ARV     Anti-Retroviral
BCECO   Bureau Central de Coordination
CDD     Community Driven Development
CNTS    Centre National de Transfusion Sanguine
COPIREP Comité de Pilotage de la Réforme des Enterprises Publiques
DRC     Democratic Republic of Congo
EERP    Emergency Early Recovery Project
EESRSP  Emergency Economic and Social Reunification Support Project
EMRRP   Emergency Multi Sector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project
ERC     Economic Recovery Credit
ESAP    Emergency Social Action Project
GTZ     Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbei
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IDA     International Development Association
IMF     International Monetary Fund
MAP     Multi-country AIDS control Project
MONUC   Mission des Nations Unies en République Démocratique du Congo
MOP     Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association to
        the Executive Directors
NGO     Non Government Organisation
OFIDA   Office des Douanes et Accises
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PNLS    Programme National de Lutte contre le Sida
PSDCP   Private Sector Development and Competitiveness Project
PSR     Project Status Report
SAPMP   Southern Africa Power Market Project
SOE     State Owned Enterprise
STD     Sexually Transmitted Disease
TSS     Transition Support Strategy
TTL     Task Team Leader
WHO     World Health Organisation


                                  Vice President:      Gobind Nankani
                                 Country Director      Pedro Alba
                                  Sector Manager       Demba Ba
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Ivan Rossignol

                         CONGO, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
                             Emergency Early Recovery Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24

Project ID: P075660                                                  Project Name: Emergency Early Recovery Project
Team Leader: Onno Ruhl                                               TL Unit: AFTPI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 2, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Emergency Early Recovery Project                         L/C/TF Number: GRTD-H0050
   Country/Department: CONGO, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF                                      Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (48%); Roads and highways
                            (29%); Health (16%); Other social services (6%); Law and justice
                            (1%)
                  Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P);
                            Administrative and civil service reform (P); Public expenditure,
                            financial management and procurement (S); Tax policy and
                            administration (S); Regulation and competition policy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/04/2001                                     Effective: 12/08/2001                12/08/2001
     Appraisal: 06/14/2001                                         MTR: 09/15/2003                  09/15/2003
      Approval: 07/31/2001                                      Closing: 01/31/2004                 01/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF DRC/BUREAU CENTRAL DE COORDINATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               Pedro Alba                                     Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:                 Demba Ba                                       Demba Ba
Team Leader at ICR:             Onno Ruhl                                      Onno Ruhl
ICR Primary Author:             Ivan Rossignol; Guillemette
                                Jaffrin


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives and the design of the Emergency Early Recovery Project (EERP) need to be assessed in the context
of DRC in 2001, which was emerging from a terrible war. In January 2001, the President of DRC, Laurent Kabila,
was assassinated and his son, Joseph Kabila, was appointed as new President. Joseph Kabila stated his support for
the peace process and he affirmed his commitment to improve the living conditions in the country and to liberalize
the economy, which represented an important shift from his father's policies. He requested the resumption of
international assistance to support DRC in this venture. DRC was in non-accrual status with the Bank since 1993
and by end 2000 had arrears of US$ 119.6 million to IBRD and 160.8 million to IDA, as well as about US$ 500
million to the IMF and about US$ 800 million to the AfDB.

The objectives of EERP were to finance a limited set of priority activities that would provide the backbone of the
assistance needed in the first phase of the Transition Support Strategy (TSS). More specifically, the objectives of
EERP were to rehabilitate key infrastructures and address the extremely limited implementation capacity for
coordination of assistance and the overall weakness of public institutions. The aim of EERP was therefore to
address urgent needs, to show results on the ground in key areas and to pilot implementation solutions designed to
deliver quick results in the environment that prevailed at that time. These objectives were in line with the priorities
identified in the 2001 Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) and with the Bank policy with respect to post-conflict
assistance set out in OP 2.30 "Development Cooperation and Conflict". In addition, the objectives were necessarily
quite general, to allow flexibility in response to changing environment and emerging opportunities. It should be
highlighted that EERP was the first project approved by the World Bank since 1991.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The original components as outlined in the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the
International Development Association to the Executive Directors (MOP) were the following:

I. Institutional strengthening and capacity building                                                21 million
     A. Capacity building for management of donor assistance                                 9 million
          (i) Implementation of the EERP                                                     3 million
          (ii) Strengthen implementation capacity in key ministries and institutions         1 million
          (iii) Engineering for priority works                                               5 million
     B. Support to good governance and economic management                                   12 million
          (i) Improve revenue generating capacity                                            2 million
          (ii) Improve capacity to manage public resources                                   5.75 million
          (iii) Address key impediments to private sector activity                           4 million
          (iv) Improve public dissemination and debate on economic reforms                   0.25 million
II. Addressing urgent needs and piloting implementation solutions                            26 million
     A. HIV/AIDS                                                                             8 million
          (i) Social awareness activities and distribution of condoms                        1.6 million
          (ii) Blood transfusion security                                                    2.4 million
          (iii) Diagnostic and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases                    3.2 million
          (iv) Coordination, monitoring and evaluation                                       0.8 million
     B. Community driven development pilot fund                                              3 million
     C. Infrastructure                                                                       15 million
          (i) Road Matadi ­ Kinshasa (Route Nationale 1, RN1)
          (ii) Strengthening of the Road Agency for preparation and monitoring of
          the work financed, capacity building in the transport sector and
          engineering studies for future infrastructure priorities
III. Unallocated                                                                             3 million
                                                                         Total               50 million



                                                          - 2 -

3.4 Revised Components:
The objective of Component 2B: Community Driven Development (CDD) Pilot Fund was to pilot community
driven implementation solutions to rehabilitate basic infrastructure and services. The MOP proposed that
sub-contracted NGOs would undertake these activities, in close coordination with local authorities. A CDD pilot
test with two communities was therefore initiated in late 2001 through a national NGO, with the view of scaling up
these activities if the initial results were satisfactory. However, following the creation of a Social Fund by the
Government, and at the request of the Government, the remaining funds of this component (US$2.5 million) were
shifted to support the Government Social Fund initiative (PSR #2, 3 and 4). This modification therefore
represented a revision in the implementation mode of the component; however the objective of the component
remained unchanged.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry is satisfactory. In emergency situations, speed is critical and the Bank has developed special
procedures that feature abbreviated steps and reduced processing times (BP 8.50 Emergency Recovery Assistance).
In line with BP 8.50, no PAD was drafted for EERP. Instead a Memorandum and Recommendation of the
President of the International Development Association to the Executive Directors (MOP), accompanied by a
Technical Annex were drafted (following the guidelines of Annex A to BP 8.50 "Content of the Technical Annex
to the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President").

In May 2001, a first Bank-Fund mission went to DRC to assess the situation and develop a Transitional Support
Strategy (TSS). During this mission, it was proposed to develop a grant project using the special window under
IDA 12 for post conflict countries in arrears that provided exceptional grant support for urgent rehabilitation
measures, planning and development of a comprehensive recovery programme and donor coordination in the
period before arrears were cleared. In June 2001, the Africa Region Vice President gave the green light for the
development of a US$ 50 million IDA grant under this IDA 12 window, which had never been used before. The
Country Director for DRC asked a Bank staff with significant post conflict experience to develop and manage this
grant. A second World Bank mission went to DRC in June 2001 to design the proposed grant. The TSS and the
proposed Emergency Early Recovery Project grant were presented at the same time to the Board on July 9, 2001
and were accepted.

The assessment of the Quality at Entry is based on the following:
·         The project objectives are fully consistent with the objectives set out in the 2001 TSS which are to (i) meet
basic and urgent needs, (ii) rebuild effective public institutions and policies, (iii) revitalize economic activity, (iv)
rebuild implementation capacity.
·         The selected project implementation mechanisms addressed key constraints identified in the 2001 TSS,
namely, extremely limited implementation capacity for assistance and overall institutional weakness of public
institutions. The project therefore proposed a ring-fenced implementation agency in charge of procurement,
disbursement and financial management (i.e. Bureau Central de Coordination, BCECO), frequent audits and
reliance on organizations with significant experience in DRC (such as local or international NGOs). In addition,
creative solutions were developed to allow the project to achieve its objectives in particularly difficult
circumstances. The approach chosen for the HIV/AIDS component was well adapted to the circumstances and
allowed for activities to take place on a national scale, at a time when the country was divided with 30% to 40% of
its territory under rebel control.
·         Through supporting the IMF Staff Monitored Programme, the project answered the request from the
government for donor funding to finance priority activities, which included restoration of macro-economic
stability, improvement of governance and other activities to solidify and deepen the stabilization effort. In addition,
the project design allowed to balance these painful measures with high impact / high visibility interventions (such
as the Matadi ­ Kinshasa road) to boost public morale.
·         The objectives of the project proved extremely relevant and pertinent: arrears were cleared and EERP
became the keystone of the development of the Bank portfolio in DRC.
·         The design of the project allowed for sufficient flexibility to seize opportunities as they arose.
·         The project was prepared in a short time (2 months), which is essential in such emergency conditions.



                                                            - 3 -

One downfall of this rapid project preparation was the under-estimation of the cost and time required to re-open
the Matadi-Kinshasa road.
·        The design of the project followed best practices for conflict-affected countries: it drew on staff with
conflict expertise, it encouraged early intervention from development partners, it provided investment in key
infrastructure that benefits the population, it helped resume trading, it re-established a dialogue with the
government with an emphasis on ownership and optimism, it use public fund to seize a unique window of
opportunity.
·        However (and hence the Satisfactory rating, instead of Highly Satisfactory), more attention could have
been given to ensure the sustainability of the interventions financed under EERP, as well as to ensure the
maximisation of the institutional impact. In particular, a transition strategy from a ring-fenced approach (with
BCECO) to a mainstreaming approach (relying on Government agencies) could have been developed.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of project objectives is satisfactory, reflecting that (i) all project objectives were met, but (ii)
quality at entry could have been higher with regards to EERP sustainability strategy and the appraisal of the road
works. Considering the degree of political uncertainty during the first years of the project (30 to 40% of the country
was under rebel control until the December 2002 peace accord) as well as the eight year gap in Bank activities in
DRC, the achievements of the project have been remarkable.

The set of priority activities financed by EERP became the backbone of the Bank support to the 2001 TSS. As
highlighted in the 2004 TSS, the solid and ambitious program of reforms implemented since April 2001 was
supported by the Bank through EERP first and then through the Economic Recovery Credit (approved in 2002,
once the IBRD and IDA arrears were cleared). The three projects identified in the 2001 TSS were approved
between 2002 and 2003: they include the above mentioned Economic Recovery Credit (ERC), an Emergency Multi
Sector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (EMRRP) and a Private Sector Development and Competitiveness
Project (PSDCP). EERP provided key inputs (in particular studies and engineering work) for the development of
these projects. Other recently approved projects continue to rely on the work initiated by EERP, such as the
Emergency Economic and Social Reunification Support Project (EESRSP) approved in September 2003, the
Southern Africa Power Market Project (SAPMP) approved in November 2003, the Multisectoral AIDS Project
(MAP), approved in March 2004 and the Emergency Social Action Project (ESAP) approved in August 2004.
EERP is recognized as the building block of the DRC country programme.

Another objective of EERP was to address the extremely limited implementation capacity for coordination of
international assistance. This objective was achieved through the establishment and strengthening of BCECO,
created by Presidential Decree on 8 August 2001. As of end 2004, BCECO is managing US$ 983 million from
various development partners (bilateral donors, European Union, AfDB and World Bank). A series of audits were
undertaken by internationally recognized firms which fully endorsed BCECO accounts.

A third objective of EERP was to pilot the implementation of solutions designed to deliver quick results in the
DRC environment. This objective was achieved through different implementation solutions. First, the required ICB
(International Competitive Bidding) for the rehabilitation of the Matadi-Kinshasa road led to the selection of a
Chinese firm to undertake the works. Despite some initial misgivings and skepticism on the Congolese side, the
ICB proved successful as it revived the road construction sector in DRC (following a decade of work interruption)
and increased competition which led to a decrease in bidding prices. The sub-contracting mechanism in the
HIV/AIDS component proved also successful with all targets met or exceeded (see 4.2 and annex 1).




                                                          - 4 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component I: Institutional strengthening and capacity building
(Planned: US$ 21 million, actual: US$ 18.4 million)

         A. Capacity building for management of donor assistance
         (Planned: US$ 9 million, actual: US$ 12.3 million)
This component is rated satisfactory. The objective of this component was to assist the Government in building
capacity to manage external assistance to prepare the ground for the recovery phase during which levels of external
assistance would be large. The specific objectives were to:
·        establish a track record of performance through successful and transparent implementation of the
activities financed under the project (planned: US$ 3 million, actual: US$ 2.8 million);
·        strengthen implementation capacity and transparency in key ministries and utilities which were expected
to play a significant role in the implementation of the recovery program (planned: US$ 1 million, actual: US$ 5.1
million);
·        complete engineering for priority works to be financed in the first dry season in 2002 (May to September)
in order to achieve maximum impact during the first months of the recovery phase (planned: US$ 5 million, actual:
US$ 4.4 million).

All these objectives were met. BCECO was created and has successfully been managing donor assistance (cf. 4.1).
In addition to covering BCECO operating costs, EERP provided technical assistance to strengthen its aid
management capacity, in particular in financial management and procurement. A series of training took place in
2002 and 2003 to strengthen key ministries and key agencies, such as the Central Bank, the Ministry of Transport,
the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Public Service, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Industry.
These training (both in country and outside the country) were reinforced by a number of seminars on themes such
as "Contribution of the mining sector to rapid economic recovery" or "Future of Post and Telecommunications". In
addition to training, EERP provided equipment (vehicles and IT equipment) to these ministries and institutions.
EERP was also asked to support the peace transition process and to rehabilitate and equip structures that would
host the transition government, in particular the Ministry of Public Works and the National Palace (cf. 3.4 & 8).

The project also supported, as planned, the preparation of the Emergency Multi Sector Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction Project (EMRRP) through a number of studies on various subjects (such as: Kinshasa roads, fight
against erosion, agriculture, health, education and safe water). These preliminary studies allowed to jump start the
implementation of EMRRP. In addition, this component financed the environment and social impact assessment
for the Southern African Power Market Project approved in November 2003.

         B. Support to Good Governance and Economic Management
         (Planned: US$ 12 million, actual: US$ 6.1 million)
This component is rated satisfactory. This component aimed at supporting the Government to achieve a limited set
of objectives that would provide the building blocks for sound economic governance, in particular: improve
revenue generating capacity, improve capacity to manage public resources, address key impediments to private
sector activity and improve public dissemination and debate on economic reforms. Various studies and audits on
the above themes were completed, covering the following subjects.
·        State Owned Enterprises (SOEs). Activities included: in depth analysis of SOEs situations, setting up of at
Steering Committee for SOE reform (COPIREP), in-depth audit of Gecamines in view of its restructuring
·        Debt. The main activity was a mission of certification and validation of internal debt and cross-debt (dette
croisée) of public enterprises.
·        Revenue generating capacity. Activities included the establishment of a one-stop-shop for OFIDA (the
Duty and Taxes Office) and studies on the legal and accounting environment of OFIDA.
·        Financial sector. Activities included the audit of the Central Bank, as well as financial and organizational
audits of commercial banks and certification of their financial statements, as well as an assets valuation and



                                                         - 5 -

certification of financial statements for state owned banks in difficulties.
·         Mining sector. Activities included the preparation of the mining rules (règlement minier) and the setting
up of a mining register with a recording system.

The studies mainly consisted of situation assessments and included complete data updates for SOEs, commercial
banks and internal debt to allow to kick start the programme of economic reforms. In this component, technical
assistance was used with flexibility to ensure a demand driven approach and to facilitate the reform agenda. The
objective of supporting the Government to achieve a limited set of actions that would provide the building blocks
for economic recovery was achieved, as these studies helped to develop programs in their respective themes.

Component II: Addressing urgent needs and piloting implementation solutions
(Planned: US$ 26 million, actual: US$ 36.7 million)

          A. HIV/AIDS
          (Planned: US$ 8 million, actual: US$ 12 million)
This component is rated satisfactory, as all targets were achieved. It was initially proposed to undertake emergency
activities in the HIV/AIDS field for a 12 months period. However during implementation it became apparent that it
would be necessary to consolidate these activities to ensure sustainability, as a result additional funding was made
available for this component which was extended until June 2004. The partner agencies initially had difficulties
complying with World Bank procurement procedures (as mentioned in the PSR #3), however through support from
the BCECO, these initial difficulties were rapidly overcome (PSR #4).

     (i) Social awareness activities and distribution of condoms (planned: US$ 1.6 million, actual US$ 2.3 million)
The aim of this sub-component was to raise awareness on HIV/AIDS issues and increase the availability of
condoms in DRC. The main activities were (a) information, education campaigns and discussion groups and (b)
social marketing of condoms. These activities were undertaken successfully and their respective targets were fully
met (the target in the contract signed with the partner institution was to distribute 11 million condoms per year,
while the target in the Technical Annex was to sell 3,500 condoms per day in Kinshasa). The sale of Prudence
condoms, the brand marketed by the partner institution, (which represents 90% of the condom market) has
increased nation-wide from 12 million in 2001 to 27 million in 2004. In particular, the project supported the
diffusion of a short spot entitled "Trusted Partner" for 3 months on 4 TV channels and on 2 radio stations. A
survey highlighted that 73% of the population in Kinshasa (which represent around 5.8 million persons) recalled
hearing or seeing this spot and all of the persons who recalled the spot could quote at least one of its key message.
In 2002, 12.2 million condoms were distributed, in 2003, 14.5 million and in 2004, 8.3 million, while the targets
were 11 million for the first 2 years and 5.5 million for 2004 (as the component ended in June 2004). It should be
highlighted that this distribution took place in all the provinces of DRC, despite the fact that in 2002 the country
was still divided. In 2002, Maniema was the only province where no condom was distributed. In the following
years, condoms were distributed in all the provinces.

Despite the highly satisfactory outcome of this sub-component, the partner institution raised a number of concerns
regarding the design and implementation of the sub-component activities. The partner regretted that not enough
funds had been allocated to staff cost and monitoring and evaluation. Due to budget constraints, the partner was
not able to monitor and evaluate the social awareness activities it financed as closely as it would have wished to. In
addition, the partner institution highlighted a design flaw: under the chosen design, a number of structures were
asked to undertake social marketing of condoms without having the required skills which led to bad practices in
some instances (a key aspect of social marketing is to build the habit to buy condoms - which ensures sustainability
of the fight against HIV/AIDS - and to build reliable and widespread distribution channels). This was not
consistently done by the structures involved in this sub-component at the provincial level. Another concern raised
by the partner institution is the interruption in the financing of activities between and after phases, which led to an
interruption of importation of condoms and condoms shortage in the markets in DRC. The partner institution
considers that despite raising the issue with the World Bank at several occasions, not enough attention was given
and efforts made to ensure a constant supply of condoms in the country at the end of the project. Fortunately, the
partner institution managed to secure bridge funding, while waiting for the start of the MAP, and therefore avoided




                                                           - 6 -

a stock shortage and the associated negative health impacts on the population.

     (ii) Blood transfusion security (Planned: US$ 2.4 million, actual: US$3.9 million)
The aim of this sub-component was to contribute to the reduction of HIV transmission risk through blood
transfusions in health structures. The specific objective was to ensure a progressive cover of the country through a
coordinated network of quality transfusion structures, under the coordination of the National Center for Blood
Transfusion (CNTS). The main achievements of this sub-component are the following:
·          322 transfusion structures across the country were supported by the project. By the end of the project,
these structures were transferring 100% of quality blood (the target was 85%).
·          The proportion of voluntary blood donors across the country increased from 8.2% before the project to
33.7% by the end of the project (the target was to increase the proportion from 25% to 40%: the Technical Annex
indicated that the baseline value for the proportion of voluntary blood donor was 25%, while it actually was 8.2%.
The Technical Annex forecasted a 60% increase in the number of voluntary blood donors, from 25% to 40%, while
the project achieved a 311% increase, from 8.2% to 33.7%).

The objectives of the subcomponent were fully met. This sub-component led to additional significant benefits. The
cover of the country in safe blood increased from 13% to 40% by the end of the project. The average cost of a blood
transfusion decreased from US$ 11 to US$ 5. CNTS is now considered a reference centre for Central African
region by the WHO, following the support provided by EERP, GTZ and the Italian cooperation. Similarly to the
above component, the difficult situations under which these activities were taking place should be highlighted.
Despite the division of the country, supplies and people were able to reach the provinces under rebel control with
the help of the MONUC.

     (iii) Diagnostic and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases (planned US$ 3.2 million, actual US$ 4.6
     million)
The general objective of this sub-component was to reduce the risk of HIV transmission and its negative impact on
the wellbeing of people and communities. The specific objectives were to: (i) improve the biological diagnostic of
HIV; (ii) ensure the correct treatment of Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) at health centers and hospitals; (iii)
ensure the correct treatment of opportunistic infections in hospitals and specialized centers.

In 2002, 12,135 persons were identified with STDs and treated, this number increased to 97,907 in 2003 and to
165,972 in 2004. The partner institution underlined that these are officially reported figures (through reports sent
by provinces to the partner institution); the partner institution estimates that the actual number of persons treated is
double. Regarding opportunistic infections, the number of infections treated was 8,686 in 2003 and increased to
9,374 in 2004. This sub-component far exceeded its targets which were to treat 900 illnesses and to diagnose 5,000
patients. During this sub-component lifetime, 294,500 blood pockets were tested. The HIV/AIDS prevalence rate
stands at 4.5%, it is therefore assessed that 13,253 contaminations were avoided. Additional positive impacts were
the reduction of the costs of HIV tests (the cost of the rapid HIV test went from US$120 to US$ 90 and the cost of
the Capilys test went from Euros 340 to 280, thanks to increased competition among the suppliers).

     (iv) Coordination, monitoring and evaluation (planned: US$ 0.8 million, actual US$ 1.1 million)
The National Programme for the Fight against AIDS (PNLS) was in charge of this sub-component. The PNLS took
advantage of EERP to establish itself as a National Program (it had just been converted from a Coordination Office
to a National Program). The budget was used for supervision missions, equipment, vehicles and some operating
costs (such as gas for the vehicles and electricity). PNLS is extremely satisfied with the results of the HIV/AIDS
component, but it also highlighted some shortcomings in the design of the component. PNLS argues that the
project did not pay sufficient attention to what would happen once the project would be completed and how to
ensure a reliable supply of condoms and other required inputs once the project was over. In addition, the PNLS
regretted that the project did not include ARV drugs for patients affected by HIV/AIDS.

           B. Community Driven Development Pilot Fund
           (Planned: US$ 3 million, actual: US$ 5.4 million)
This component is rated satisfactory. The aim of this sub-component was to pilot implementation solutions




                                                          - 7 -

designed to deliver results in the current environment with efficiency and transparency. Two Community Driven
Development (CDD) pilot projects were undertaken with a partner institution in two provinces (in Patu in Bas
Congo and in Wikong in Kasai Oriental). Responding to Government's priorities, funding under this component
was re-allocated - at the completion of the two CDD pilot projects - to the recently created Social Fund, in
consistency with the development objectives.

The same approach was adopted in the two pilot provinces, it included: rehabilitating a school and a health center,
building a market, rehabilitating roads and bridges and facilitating the evacuation and the commercialization of
agricultural products. The outcome of these two pilot projects is satisfactory.

First, the population in these 2 provinces demonstrated ownership of the activities undertaken by contributing to
the work. In Patu, the population provided the land and the construction material for the health centre. Similarly,
the population gave the land where the proposed market was to be built. Second, the two pilot projects also had a
positive impact on the life of the population. In Patu, the newly built health center became reference health center.
As a result, Patu inhabitants no longer need to travel to the former reference health centre located 32 km away.
Patu inhabitants have demonstrated their satisfaction in building houses for the medical staff and in building an
extension to the health center to enlarge the maternity. Following the rehabilitation of the school, the number of
students increased from 126 to 358. The school is now both a primary school and a junior high school (the junior
high school where students use to go is located 45 km away). The market dynamism has increased: the market is
much busier and is now in operation everyday. Progress in Wikong is also visible, however the rehabilitation of the
road was less successful as the road crosses 2 tribe territories and one of them does not have strong incentive to
maintain it. The economic impact is significant: thanks to the road, populations can more easily sell their crops
and at a higher price (for example, the price of 3kg of maize increased from CF 150 to CF 250 and transportation
costs decreased from CF 500 for 70 kg to CF 300). Another achievement of these pilot projects is their
sustainability. Thanks to the sell of medicines and of reasonable fees, the health centers cover their operating costs.
Schools allow parents to pay school fees in kind and the roads maintenance is organized by the village chiefs.

This component was revised three months after effectiveness to support the establishment of the Social Fund
created by Presidential Decree in February 2002. The Social Fund objective is to contribute to the amelioration of
life conditions and to increase access to social services through the rehabilitation of social and economic
infrastructures. The creation of the Social Fund was strongly supported by the Presidency, which considered it a
reconstruction priority. The Bank team supported this initiative in application of the principles guiding lending in
reconstruction periods (need to show pragmatism and flexibility). This component is in line with the project
development objective and is consistent with the component's objectives (which were to pilot implementation
solution to rehabilitate basic infrastructure and services).
US$ 1.65 million were provided for the set up, equipment and operating costs of the Social Fund.

Two main types of activities were financed by the Social Fund: pilot projects (US$ 1.1 million) and "Scholarships
for Excellence" or Bourses d'Excellence (US$ 1.99 million). The pilot projects included: rehabilitation of a
primary school in Tutungunuke (US$ 58,000) and in Sumaili (US$ 60,000), drinking water connection in Nkamba
(US$ 107,000) and in Ankoro (US$ 168,000). Various groups also received targeted support from the Social Fund,
such as vulnerable children (US$ 110,000), orphans (US$ 42,000) and women victim of sexual violence (US$
11,000). The programme "Bourse d'Excellence" provides a US$ 400 stipend to finance university fees of top
students (i.e. students that receive at least 65% at the state exam). Under this programme, 3,042 students received a
scholarship (487 in 2001, 1,388 in 2002 and 1,167 in 2003, 32% were female students). The "Scholarship for
Excellence" initiative is considered a success and is credited to be one of the reasons for the strong increase in the
number of students obtaining over 65% at the state exam. This number increased from 1,014 in 2001 to 2,320 in
2002, 2,998 in 2003 and 3,367 in 2004. The Bank approved in June 2004 a project entitled "Emergency Social
Action Project" to support the Social Fund and to undertake, through the Fund, a range of social activities.

It should be noted that different audits (financial and technical) of the Social Fund were undertaken. The financial
audits revealed several weaknesses: procedures were not followed, unforecasted expenses were made and
accounting was weak. A technical audit ensured that the realization of the above mentioned infrastructure activities
was satisfactory. This audit also highlighted that the Social Fund did not follow the procedures established in the


                                                           - 8 -

Operation Manual. Despite these shortcomings, this sub-component is considered satisfactory as its objective of
piloting community driven implementation solutions was fully achieved.

           C. Infrastructure
           (Planned: US$ 15million, actual: US$ 19.3 million)
     (i) Road Matadi ­ Kinshasa: Route Nationale 1 or RN1 (planned: US$ 15 million, actual: US$ 19 million)
The achievement of this component is satisfactory. The objective of this component was to re-open the road from
Matadi to Kinshasa, the sole supply route from the Atlantic Ocean to the capital city and the inland transport
systems serving the entire country. More specifically, the objective was to finance work on crucial points of the
RN1 between Kinshasa and Matadi to make the highway passable in all seasons pending its rehabilitation. When
the project started, the road which was unpaved for 200 km (out of a total of 350 km) was frequently cut off
because of mudslides, which had disastrous impact on food supply of Kinshasa.

The cost of rehabilitating the road had been underestimated and additional funding was made available to this
component. This under-estimation is mainly explained by the difficulty, at appraisal time, in assessing the costs of
mobilising large infrastructure firms in DRC, following a 8 year interruption of World Bank activities in the
country (PSR #2). The work was fully completed by April 2004 and the objective was fully met. 197 km of road
between Mbanza Ngungu and Pont Mpozo were rehabilitated; some portions were fully re-built (80km) while some
other portions were fixed (3,000 potholes were filled over 119 km). Before the project, trucks took between 3 and 6
days to reach Kinshasa from Matadi and often two to three weeks in case of mudslides. The journey can now be
made in 5 to 6 hours. Before the rehabilitation, only trucks could make the journey, while now private cars also
can. In addition, cities and markets along the road are resuscitating. The transformation of Kimpese in particular is
striking: buildings have been rehabilitated, restaurants and bars where truck drivers can stop and relax have
opened. It is also estimated that the traffic increased from 250 vehicles a day to 290-300 vehicles a day (this figure
rises to around 330 vehicles a day if local traffic is included). The satisfaction with the work realized is unanimous.
The selected enterprise worked in difficult circumstances and it was recognized that its task of rehabilitating
portions of the road (instead of re-building it) was complex.

     (ii) Strengthening of the Road Agency for preparation and monitoring of the work financed, capacity building
     in the transport sector and engineering studies for future infrastructure priorities
Two of the three activities of this sub-component (capacity building in the transport sector and engineering studies
for future infrastructure priorities) have been described under Component I.A. The main objective of this
sub-component was to strengthen local capacity (and in particular the Road Authority) to manage external aid in
the infrastructure sector, which was fully achieved. The project provided logistical and financial support to the
Road Authority (US$ 270,000) during the rehabilitation of the RN1 to allow this agency to properly monitor the
works. However, the Road Authority raised the issue of the contracting arrangement: the construction company
and the consultancy company in charge of monitoring the works signed their contracts with the BCECO and were
therefore reporting to BCECO, which negatively affected the influencing capacity of the Road Agency with regards
to the implementation of the work.

     (iii) Kiyimbi bridge (Planned: US$ 0, actual US$ 0.3 million)
The reconstruction of the Kiyimbi bridge was not initially planned. However, it appeared as a unique opportunity
to show quick results that would positively impact poor people's life in Kinshasa. A bridge used to connect two
densely inhabited areas of Kinshasa (Matete, where an important market is located, and Lemba). This bridge had
been destroyed in the early 80s and had not been rebuilt since. The objectives of showing quick results and of
having a positive impact of poor neighborhoods were fully met. First it had a positive environmental impact, as the
site had become a waste disposal site. Following the rehabilitation of the bridge, the site has been cleaned and is
not used anymore as a dump. Second, there is a strong economic impact, the areas around the river banks had
become deserted, there were no commercial activities and there were security issues. Since the rehabilitation of the
bridge, the economic activities have strongly increased with the opening of shops, bars and stalls. Third, drivers no
longer need to undertake a 6 km detour, which contributed to increasing traffic jams in the city centre. The bridge
also allows to connect Matete to the RN1 (the major supply road). Now over 5,000 vehicles are crossing the bridge
every day. Following the success of this highly visible project with a strong economic impact, the Bank decided to
use the remaining US$ 42 million from the Budget Support to undertake similar activities all over Kinshasa.



                                                           - 9 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/a

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/a

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of EERP is substantial, as it has strengthened a number of institutions. As
described in 4.1 and 4.2, BCECO, a Congolese institution, is now managing close to US$ 1 billion of development
aid to DRC and exhibit unreserved audit reports. As of December 2004, BCECO counts 85 staff. BCECO is under
the supervision of the Ministry of Finance, but has an administrative and financial autonomy. A Steering
Committee supervises the implementation of BCECO activities. This Committee is constituted by 2 representatives
of the President Office, 1 representative from the Ministry of Finance, 1 representative from the Ministry of
Planning and from the General Director of BCECO. The General Direction is in charge of the implementation of
BCECO activities. The Managing Director is supported by a Deputy Managing Director and a Technical Director,
an Administrative and Financial Director and the Internal Auditor. As also explained in 4.2, CNTS is now
considered by the WHO as a reference transfusion centre in Central Africa and its results are impressive (cf. 4.2).
Other strong institutional development impacts include OFIDA (the Duty and Taxes Office) and the mining
register. It should be highlighted that the primary objective of EERP was to have a strong aid management agency
(BCECO). As a result, the institutional development impacts are larger than expected.

At the time of the project design, setting up a ring-fenced institution was a requirement and the project would not
have been approved without such an implementation mechanism. However, one can wonder whether the setting up
of BCECO has lessened the overall institutional impact of the project, as the capacity building efforts have mainly
(but not entirely) focused on BCECO, instead of on the different line ministries involved in the project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Surprisingly, in a context such as DRC, no major factors negatively affected the implementation and outcome of
the project. The project was indeed built to be able to perform in an extremely difficult environment. Also
sufficient flexibility was built in to allow to seize opportunities as they arise.

The political situation (i.e. the division of the country) was complex at the start of the project, but it did not
negatively affect its performance. For security reasons, part of the activities was restricted to safe zones. The only
component with a national scope was the HIV/AIDS component and the design of this component allowed it to
overcome the logistics difficulties due to the division of the country. When a reconciliation government was
established in 2003, the project was flexible enough to provide support to this new government which proved very
beneficial.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The government was able to clear the arrears to IBRD and IDA in July 2002 which had a positive impact on the
sustainability of the project, as it allowed subsequent projects to pursue the activities started under EERP (see
section 6 below). In addition, the strong commitment from the government to ensure that EERP was a success (as
EERP marked the re-engagement of the Bank with DRC after 8 years of interruption) had a very positive impact on
the implementation of the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
BCECO wanted to ensure that the implementation of EERP would be a success as the stakes were very high. The
success of this project would determine the reengagement of the World Bank in DRC, at a time when external
support was deeply needed and extremely scare.




                                                           - 10 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
Some budget re-allocation was necessary (see annex 2), but considering the circumstances in DRC at the time of
the design and of the start of the project, such re-allocation was expected. In addition, the project had chosen ­
since its inception ­ a flexible approach to allow it to answer opportunities as they arose. The speed of
disbursements was impressive: the actual disbursement curve followed the projected disbursement curve very
closely. In addition, the resources were fully committed by February 2003.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is likely, reflecting the full integration of EERP activities into subsequent Bank
operations. For example, the activities under the HIV/AIDS component are now integrated into and taken forward
by the MAP and the Global Fund. The Matadi-Kinshasa road is now being strengthened by EMRRP: the activities
undertaken under EERP were aimed at re-opening the road, it is now necessary to strengthen the road so that it can
resist heavy traffic, which is the responsibility of EMRRP. The work is scheduled to start shortly. Activities
regarding SOE and financial sector reforms are now implemented through PSDCP and have allowed the set up of
COPIREP, the Steering Committee for SOE reform. For example, the restructuring of GECAMINES is in process
and the voluntary US$43.2m departure program for 10,618 employees was completed. PSDCP financed
approximately US$15m of this amount. However, it should be recognised that the required ring-fenced approach
might have lessened the sustainability impact on the Government side, as the focus of capacity building has mainly
been on BCECO, rather than on the various line ministries involved.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/a

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank performance is highly satisfactory. The Bank came in DRC at a critical time, when the country was in a
dire need of support, but when few partners were willing to provide such a support due to a very low level of trust
in the country and in its government. The Bank was able to overcome an extremely high level of skepticism and to
move fast: the project was approved 3 months after the identification mission was undertaken. In addition the Bank
followed best practices for post conflict intervention in selecting a team that already had post conflict experience,
in assigning key staff in the field and in opening a country office in late 2001. The Bank was also able to design a
flexible approach and to seize opportunities when they arose.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank performance in supervision is satisfactory (and not highly satisfactory, considering the low level of
official reporting). As indicated above, the Bank made the key decision to have the TTL for this operation based in
the country, which allowed him to closely follow the project, to answer requests (such as Non-Objections) quickly
and to intervene at critical times (for example when the Social Fund was created or when a Government of
National Unity was appointed). The team supervising this project came regularly to the country and used EERP to
develop future operations, thus adopting a programmatic approach. In addition, the DRC programme and the
project in particular benefited from a high level support from the Bank (with frequent visits from the Country
Director and a visit from the President in 2002 and Managing Director in 2004). It should be indicated that the
TTL of this operation was also the Country Manager for DRC. This strongly benefited the project, and allowed it to
become the corner stone of the DRC portfolio through leveraging the various activities it implemented. However,
as the TTL was also the Country Manager, he had limited time for documenting the work done (for example,
Aide-memoires and Mid Term Reviews are not available and Key Performance Indicators are not tracked in PSR).




                                                           - 11 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall the Bank performance is satisfactory. The selected approach was extremely relevant to the DRC context.
This project allowed the Bank to balance tough measures to stabilize the economy with high visibility / high impact
initiatives (such as the Matadi-Kinshasa Road, the Kiyimbi Bridge, the Bourses d'Excellence, fight against
HIV/AIDS) to boost the moral of the population. This project signaled the Bank re-engagement in DRC as well as
other development partners re-engagement. However, concerns were raised regarding the design of the HIV/AIDS
component (cf. 4.2) and the under-estimation of the cost and time required to rehabilitate the Matadi-Kinshasa
road. Such concerns account for the Satisfactory overall Bank performance rating.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower performance is highly satisfactory. In 2001, the newly appointed government was extremely keen to
rebuild the relationship with the Bretton Woods institutions. In particular, President Joseph Kabila went to
Washington to meet with the Bank President and to request support. The government kept its engagement with the
Fund and the Bank (for example, hyper inflation was broken by end 2001and exchange rate stability has been
maintained) and very fast progress in implementing reforms was achieved. The strong involvement of the Ministry
of Finance played a crucial role. The government established the Central Agency for Coordination (BCECO) in
August 2001 and the project reached effectiveness in December 2001, which is impressive considering that the
DRC was in non-accrual status with the Bank since 1993 and considering the lack of familiarity of the Government
with Bank procedures.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
During implementation, the borrower performance remained highly satisfactory. The government fulfilled its
commitments and was able to enforce difficult but necessary measures. In July 2002, DRC cleared all overdue
service payments to the IBRD and IDA. The Government demonstrated its commitment to implementing economic
reforms and tackling governance issues, including concrete steps towards increased transparency, public enterprise
reform and the implementation of new mining, forestry, labor and investment codes. While the government had no
previous experience in dealing with the World Bank, it adapted very quickly. The Government provided the
required human and financial resources to successfully implement EERP. The team on the government side was
highly motivated and wanted to see fast progress.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency is considered highly satisfactory. Considering the past experience in
DRC, there was initially a high level of skepticism regarding the implementation of the project. BCECO was
created in August 2001 and managed to be operational extremely quickly given the circumstances: BCECO and its
staff had no previous experience in dealing with the Bank and in following its procedures. The first contract was
signed in November 2001, which is remarkable. Very strict fiduciary requirements were put in place to ensure that
no money would be misused, in particular BCECO had to go through bi-annual audits, which all issued unreserved
audit reports. Some criticisms have been voiced towards BCECO (such as a slow release of funds, the loss of
documents, the limited technical expertise in some domains, such as HIV/AIDS), but overall the achievement of
BCECO is recognized and experience has shown in DRC that international firms do not perform better. BCECO
fully achieved its mission within the context of EERP and is now rewarded with a US$ 1 billion portfolio.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall the Borrower performance is highly satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

1.        The success of EERP confirms both post conflict intervention theory and practice in other countries (in
particular the Balkans). When there is no implementation capacity in a country, the priority is to build it, to test
various implementation models (such as International Competitive Bidding or sub-contracting to NGOs) and to
identify credible players. Another priority is to start financing interventions to demonstrate quick results or "quick



                                                          - 12 -

wins". It confirms experience in post-conflict countries which argues that early provision of "peace dividends", in
the form of concrete actions that reach the population, is critical to sustain the momentum for peace. Finally, it also
confirms the need for early and significant reengagement as soon as conditions are appropriate and the importance
of providing an overall framework for donor coordination.

2.       EERP also demonstrates the relevance and usefulness of BP / OP 8.50 Emergency Recovery
Assistance processes. In particular, BP 8.50 recommends to draw on Bankwide expertise in emergency operations,
which has proved crucial in the success of EERP. In addition, special emergency recovery procedures that feature
abbreviated steps and reduced processing times are spelled out in BP 8.50. The speed allowed by such emergency
procedures also played a critical role in the DRC context in 2001: the Bank rapid re-engagement sent an important
signal to the country and to the international community.

3.       The project corroborates the relevance of a flexible strategic and programmatic approach. The selected
approach allowed to build the DRC country programme (US$ 1.85 billion dollars committed as of April 2005)
from a US$ 50 million emergency grant. The Technical Assistance was used with flexibility to support the
Government reform programme and the IMF Staff Monitored Programme. Flexibility was crucial as it allowed the
project to seize unique opportunities, such as the support required for the National Unity Government. The ability
to provide such support was timely and critical: it allowed to defuse the tension associated with the arrival of this
new Government (an all party structure which includes four different rebel movements) in Kinshasa.

4.       The ring-fenced approach has both positive and negative aspects. On the positive side, it allowed the
grant to be approved (a ring-fenced institution was a condition of the grant); it allowed a fast disbursement and
prevented leakages and misuses of funds. It also allowed to build an institution (BCECO) which is nationally and
internationally recognized and which now serves as a conduit for an increasing number of projects (from the World
Bank and from other Development Partners). However, less positive aspects can also be identified. A ring-fenced
approach allows less transfer of competencies towards the Ministries or agencies involved in the projects, as well as
less broad institution building. It can also be argued that a ring-fenced approach is not in line with general
development best practices, which advocate for mainstreaming project implementation within government and
using government procedures. Finally, it can also be argued that a ring-fenced approach has a negative impact on
ownership of activities by Ministries or agencies.

5.       The project demonstrates that it is worthwhile to take measured risks. The main risks for EERP were that
the conflict would exacerbate or that the Government would fail to clear its arrears with the IBRD and IDA. The
realization of these two risks would have strongly undermined the objectives of EERP. In the DRC context, the
risks were significant, but the potential rewards were also high: i.e. Bank re-engagement with the DRC which
could then help consolidate the peace process and support the revitalization of the economy.

6.       The project also demonstrates the benefits of having a locally-based TTL, in a context such as DRC. This
allowed the TTL to have constant dialogue with the authorities and the implementing agencies. It allowed for
reactivity and flexibility. Finally, being based in country allowed the TTL to be politically sensitive.

7.       Some of the difficulties of the project reveal that communication with local population is crucial. The
works on the Matadi-Kinshasa roads were delayed at the beginning of the project. These delays created some anger
from the population, which could have been avoided if a more effective communication with the local population
had taken place.

8.       Government implementing agencies also highlighted the need to have funding available for
performance-based premium for civil servants involved in project implementation. They argue that the
non-availability of such funding put them in a disadvantageous position in comparison with NGOs that are able to
pay their staff salaries related to the work undertaken.




                                                          - 13 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1. Comments from the implementing agency (BCECO)

COMMENTAIRES SUR LE RAPPORT D' ACHEVEMENT DU PURR

D'une manière générale, le rapport rencontre bien les avis et considérations du BCECO, agence
d'exécution gouvernementale chargée de l'exécution du Programme d'Urgence de Redressement Rapide
(PURR). Les considérations additionnelles sont reprises ci-dessous.

Aspects institutionnels

Une des clés de réussite de ce premier programme de la Banque réside dans la mise en place du BCECO,
comme agence d'exécution du gouvernement. Le statut juridique ainsi que l'autonomie accordés à cette
agence a permis l'exécution du programme sans entraves majeures ni ingérences jadis courantes des
instances supériieures. Aussi, la souplesse de gestion ainsi que les manuels de procédures mis en place ont
permis au BCECO de s'appuyer sur les apports d'expertise des diverses entités impliquées dans le
programme.

Quelques difficultés d'adaptation de certains ONG chargées de la maîtrise d'ouvrage déléguée aux
procédures de la Banque mondiale ont quelque fois retardé l'exécution du programme. Des contacts et
explications étaient nécessaires pour venir à bout de ces contraintes.

Appui de la Banque mondiale

L'appui à l'exécution exercé par la Banque mondiale au travers du Task Team Leader du programme a été
une contribution appréciable dans l'atteinte des résultats palpables dans la réalisation des objectifs du
programme. Les différentes sollicitations de l'agence d'exécution ont été rapidement et efficacement traitées
en tenant compte du caractère urgent du programme.

Prestataires de services




                                                    - 14 -

Le secteur privé congolais a faiblement participé aux diverses consultations liées aux missions d'ingénierie
ou de reformes institutionnelles soit d'une manière individuelle soit en association avec les bureaux
extérieurs. Ceci dénote l'état déliquescence du secteur privé national. Les actions futures devront prendre
en compte la nécessité de promouvoir ce secteur par la promotion des joint-ventures ou des sous-traitances
locales.

2. Comments from the Borrower
No written comments were available from the Borrower. However, several meetings with the Borrower (in
particular the Ministry of Finance) concur with the assessment of the BCECO.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Important note: EERP is an Emergency Project, therefore no logframe is available as per BP 8.50. This table
represents Schedule 2 of the Grant Agreement.



 Component                     Planned                                    Realization
I. Institutional
strengthening and capacity
building
 A. Capacity building for      By July 31, 2002, the following activities A series of training and workshops were
 management of donor           have been implemented: "planning and       organized for the identified institutions
 assistance                    execution of capacity building programs between April 2002 and July 2003. The
 (i) Implementation of the     and activities for selected staff of       bulk of these events took place in 2002.
 EERP                          ministries and public entities responsible Achieved
 (ii) Strengthen               for health care, roads, urban
 implementation capacity in development, CDD, the main utilities
 key ministries and            companies and the mining sector"
 institutions
 (iii) Engineering for priority
 works
 B. Support to Good            A donor conference has been held by        A DRC DPs meeting took place in Brussels
 Governance and                May 31 2002. The invitation includes a     on 21 December 2001. A GoDRC and DPs
 Economic Management           government proposal for a framework        meeting took place in Paris on 21 May
 (i) Improve revenue           of donor coordination                      2002 and a CG took place on 4 and 5
 generating capacity                                                      December 2002, where DPs pledged over
 (ii) Improve capacity to                                                 $2.5 billion for DRC. Achieved
 manage public resources
 (iii) Address key
 impediments to private
 sector activity
 (iv) Improve public
 dissemination and debate
 on economic reforms
                               New procurement legislation has been       The preparation, adoption and
                               adopted by June 30, 2002                   implementation of the new procurement
                                                                          code are planned for 2005-2006. In
                                                                          progress
                               A mining cadastre has been established    The mining cadastre is operation since 30
                               by June 30, 2002                          June 2003. Achieved
                               Capacity building activities for selected The mining code was enacted on 11 July
                               staff of line ministries for the          2002. The mining law was approved on
                               implementation of the new mining law      26 March 2003. A workshop on the
                                                                         mining code was organized in Kinshasa
                                                                         on 14 and 15 November 2002. Achieved
                               The interconnection and arrears problemsAchieved
                               in the telecom sector have been solved by
                               May 31, 2002
                               Adoption of a regulatory framework for A regulatory agency has been established
                               improving the telecommunication            and a new telecommunication law was
                               system                                     established. Achieved




                                                         - 16 -

II. Addressing urgent needs
and piloting
implementation solutions
 A. HIV/AIDS                     See table below
 (i) social awareness
 activities and distribution of
 condoms
 (ii) blood transfusion
 security
 (iii) diagnostic and
 treatment of sexually
 transmitted diseases
 (iv) Coordination,
 monitoring and evaluation
 B. Community Driven           Rehabilitation of local infrastructure and Revision of project component following
 Development Pilot Fund        provision of basic social services in 50    the creation by the government of a
                               rural communities.                          Social Fund (see PSR 4).
                                                                           Cancelled
                               Evaluation to allow implementation of a Cancelled
                               second phase
 C. Infrastructure             Works on Matadi-Kinshasa road               The works on the Matadi-Kinshasa road
                               (rehabilitation of 80 km) have been         started in April 2002 and finished in
                               completed by end of dry season 2002         April 2004, following a modification to
                                                                           the original contract in order to undertake
                                                                           additional works (see PSR 4). Achieved
                               Institutional strengthening of the          Support (equipment, formation and
                               Recipient's road agency for carrying out financial support) was provided to the
                               the monitoring and supervision of the       Road Agency to allow the Agency to
                               road rehabilitation work                    monitor and supervise the works on the
                                                                           Matadi-Kinshasa road. Achieved
                               Building capacity in selected institutions Several studies (SNCC and RVM) were
                               in the transport sector for the preparation undertaken to prepare the now active
                               of an investment program                    Emergency Multisector Rehabilitation and
                                                                           Reconstruction Program (EMRRP).
                                                                           Achieved
                               Preparation of a maintenance program        In progress
                               and regulatory framework for the
                               transport sector
III. Unallocated




                                                        - 17 -

HIV/AIDS component           Value at  Value at end   Value at end (actual)
Objective / indicators       beginning (planned)
Average number of condoms2.0           3.5           Revised KPI
sold per day (in thousand) in                        35 million condoms distributed over 2.5 years (target
Kinshasa                                             was 11 million per year). Achieved
Percentage of units of       60         85            100 (within the 322 supported institutions)
quality blood transfused                              Achieved
Number of persons trained    0          250          648 Achieved
in transfusion safety
Percentage of trained health 33        60            Revised KPI
staff capable of identifying                         660 persons were trained to identify and treat STDs
and correctly treating                               (the target in the contract was 520). Achieved
sexually transmitted
diseases
Number of structures         5         12            349 health institutions (health centers and hospitals)
providing management in                              participate to the identification and treatment of
accordance with the                                  STDs according to the standards defined. Achieved
standards of the recipient's
Ministry of Public Health
Number of patients treated   300       900           Between 2002 and 2004, 276,014 persons where
in accordance with the                               treated for STDs according to the standards defined
standards of the Recipient's                         and 18,060 persons were treated for opportunistic
Ministry of Public Health                            infections. Achieved




                                               - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


                                                                Appraisal      Actual          % of
                                                                estimate       US$ million     appraisa
                                                                US$ million                    l
 I. Institutional strengthening and capacity building                     21           18.4          88
 A. Capacity building for management of donor assistance                   9           12.0          133
   (i) Implementation of the EERP                                            3           2.8         94
   (ii) Strengthen implementation capacity in key ministries                 1           4.8         478
   and institutions
   (iii) Engineering for priority works                                      5           4.4         88
B. Support to good governance and economic management                       12           6.4         54
   (i) Improve revenue generating capacity                                   2           1.7         84
   (ii) Improve capacity to manage public resources                       5.75           1.3         23
   (iii) Address key impediments to private sector activity                  4           3.1         78
     (iv) Improve public dissemination and debate on                    0.25             0.3         120
     economic reforms
 II. Addressing urgent needs and piloting                                 26           36.7          141
 implementation solutions
 A. HIV/AIDS                                                               8           12.0          149
   (i) Social awareness activities and distribution of condoms             1.6           2.3         142
   (ii) Blood transfusion security                                         2.4           3.9         164
   (iii) Diagnostic and treatment of sexually transmitted                  3.2           4.6         144
   diseases
   (iv) Coordination, monitoring and evaluation                            0.8           1.1         144
B. Community driven development pilot fund                                   3           5.4         181
C. Infrastructure                                                           15         19.3          129
   (i) Road Matadi ­ Kinshasa (Route Nationale 1, RN1)                                   19.0
   (ii) Strengthening of the Road Agency for preparation and
   monitoring of the work financed, capacity building in the
   transport sector, engineering studies for future
   infrastructure priorities,
     (iii) Kiyimbi bridge                                                  0             0.3
 III. Unallocated                                                          3             0.0          0
Total                                                                       50           55.1

As forecasted, various budget reallocations were undertaken to respond to emerging opportunities.
Component IA: Capacity building for donor assistance. The Government of National Unity was appointed on June
30, 2003, which required the rehabilitation of buildings which would host the new government. Funding was
therefore made available to rehabilitate and equip the Ministry of Public Works and the National Palace (additional
expenditures: US$ 1.5 million). Besides, additional funding was made available to provide equipment (vehicles
and IT equipment) to key ministers and institutions (additional expenditures: US$ 2.1 million).
Component IIA: HIV/AIDS. Considering the initial success of this component and the need to consolidate activities
that were initially planned for a 12 months period, additional funding was made available (mostly from the
"Unallocated" component) to pursue the work undertaken by the partner institutions (additional expenditures: US$
4 million).
Component IIC: Infrastructure, Road Matadi ­ Kinshasa (RN1). As raised in PSR #2, the cost of rehabilitating the
road was underestimated at appraisal time, which was due to the difficulty of estimating the cost of mobilizing
large contracting firms in DRC after an absence of a decade. A budget re-allocation was therefore approved by the



                                                        - 19 -

Bank (PSR #3). Most of the re-allocation came from the Component I "Institutional strengthening and capacity
building" (PSR #2). In addition, the opportunity arose to rebuild the Kiyimbi bridge which used to connect two
poor neighborhoods in Kinshasa. Such a project was considered as a "quick win" as it was highly visible and had
an immediate economic impact on the neighborhoods (additional expenditures: US$ 4.3 million).

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                    2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               10.00               0.30              0.00             0.00            10.30
                                      (10.00)             (0.30)            (0.00)           (0.00)           (10.30)
2. Goods                                4.10               0.50              0.60             0.00             5.20
                                       (4.10)             (0.50)            (0.60)           (0.00)           (5.20)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00             23.50             0.00            23.50
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)           (23.50)           (0.00)           (23.50)
4. Services Contracts                   0.00               0.00             11.00             0.00            11.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)           (11.00)           (0.00)           (11.00)
5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00             0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00             0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
    Total                              14.10               0.80             35.10             0.00            50.00
                                      (14.10)             (0.80)           (35.10)           (0.00)           (50.00)
Note from the MOP, p.22: The IDA Grant would finance 100% of expenditures. The Government
contribution would consist of exempting all contracts from taxes and duties and financing the final design
and bidding documents of the rehabilitation of the road Kinshasa ­ Matadi.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                    2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               17.75               1.23             0.00             0.00            18.98
                                      (17.75)             (1.23)           (0.00)            (0.00)          (18.98)
2. Goods                                2.12               0.99             0.15             0.00             3.26
                                       (2.12)             (0.99)           (0.15)            (0.00)          (3.26)
3. Services                             8.05               0.71             4.92             0.00            13.68
                                       (8.05)             (0.71)           (4.92)            (0.00)          (13.68)
4. Services Contracts                   0.00               0.00            18.84             0.00            18.84
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)           (18.84)           (0.00)          (18.84)
5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00             1.01             0.00             1.01
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)           (1.01)            (0.00)          (1.01)
. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00             0.00             0.00             0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
    Total                              27.92               2.93            24.92             0.00            55.77
                                      (27.92)             (2.93)           (24.92)           (0.00)          (55.77)
Note from the MOP, p.22: The IDA Grant would finance 100% of expenditures. The Government
contribution would consist of exempting all contracts from taxes and duties and financing the final design
and bidding documents of the rehabilitation of the road Kinshasa ­ Matadi.



                                                       - 20 -

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through International and National Shopping, Sole Source and Quality
       Based Selection



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA        Govt.        CoF.         IDA        Govt.        CoF.       IDA     Govt.  CoF.
I. Institutional               21.00                                 18.41                              87.7
strengthening and capacity
building
A. Capacity building for        9.00                                 11.97                             133.0
management of donor
assistance
B. Support to good             12.00                                 6.43                               53.6
governance and economic
management
II. Addressing urgent          26.00                                 36.70                             141.2
needs and piloting
implementation solutions
A. HIV/AIDS                     8.00                                 11.96                             149.5
B. Community driven             3.00                                 5.44                              181.3
development pilot fund
C. Infrastructure              15.00                                 13.31                              88.7
III. Unallocated                3.00                                 0.00                               0.0
Total                          50.00                                 55.11                             110.2

    Note from the MOP, p.22: The IDA Grant would finance 100% of expenditures. The Government
    contribution would consist of exempting all contracts from taxes and duties and financing the final design
    and bidding documents of the rehabilitation of the road Kinshasa ­ Matadi.




                                                          - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                          No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                              (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)            Implementation Development
                    Month/Year       Count               Specialty                          Progress         Objective

 Concept review
               06/04/2001

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               06/14/2001

 Supervision
               11/09/2001                         2    Private Sector Specialist (1),          S                 S
                                                       Financial Management
                                                       Specialist (1)
               04/25/2002                         2    Financial Management Specialist         S                 S
                                                       (1), Operations Officer (1)
               01/02/2003                         1    Operations Officer (1)                  S                 S
               06/25/2003                         5    Financial Management Specialist         S                 S
                                                       (2), HIV/AIDS Specialist (1),
                                                       Transport Specialist (1), Country
                                                       Manager (1)
               12/02/2003                         0                                            S                 S
               06/25/2004                         0                                            S                 S
               12/15/2004                         0                                            S                 S

 ICR
               04/26/05                           2     Private Sector Specialist (1),         HS               HS
                                                        Financial Sector Specialist
                                                        (1)

It should be noted that EERP received significant inputs from various Bank specialists preparing the projects that
built on EERP. In most cases, these specialists did not however charge time to EERP.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                            Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Concept review
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision
  ICR
  Total                                           30.36                              85.40
Detailed data not available.
As noted above, EERP received significant inputs from various Bank specialists preparing the projects that built on
EERP. However, in most cases, these specialists did not charge time to EERP. In addition the TTL of this
operation was also the Country Manager of DRC. He therefore did not charge most of his time to the project.




                                                        - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project documents

Development Grant Agreement (Emergency Early Recovery Project) between Democratic Republic of Congo and
International Development Association, Grant Number H005 DRC, August 10, 2001

Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association to the
Executive Directors on a proposed grant of SDR 40 million (US$ 50 million equivalent) to the Democratic
Republic of Congo for an Emergency Early Recovery Project, July 9, 2001

Technical Annex for a proposed grant of SDR 40 million (US$ 50 million equivalent) to the Democratic Republic
of Congo for an Emergency Early Recovery project, July 9, 2001

Project Status Reports, Emergency Early Recovery Project, # 1 to 6

Audits

Rapports d'Audit Deloitte du Fonds Social de la République Démocratique du Congo, au 31 décembre 2002, 30
juin 2003 et 31 décembre 2003

Rapport d'Audit Deloitte du PNLS au 31 décembre 2003

Rapport d'Audit Deloitte de GTZ au 31 décembre 2003

Rapport d'Audit Deloitte de PSI ­ ASF au 31 décembre 2003

Other project supporting documents

Décret n. 039 du 8 août 2001 portant création, organisation et fonctionnement du Bureau Central de Coordination,
en abrégé « BCECO »

Rapports Annuels 2002, 2003 et 2004, BCECO, Ministère des Finances, République Démocratique du Congo

Rapports d'activités PSI ­ ASF, Juill. ­ Sept. 2003, Oct. ­ Déc. 2003, Janv. ­ Mars 2004, Avril ­ Juin 2004

Rapport final, GTZ, Projet d'appui à la lutte contre le sida en RDC, volet sécurité transfusionnelle, Janvier 2002 ­
Janvier 2003

Rapport technique, GTZ, Projet d'appui à la lutte contre le sida en RDC, volet sécurité transfusionnelle, phase de
consolidation, Mars 2003 ­ Juin 2004

Rapports d'activités, Fometro, première phase (2002) et phase de consolidation, (2003-2004)

Related projects documents

Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association to the
Executive Directors on a proposed credit in the amount of SDR 358.8 million (US$ 454 million equivalent) to the
Democratic Republic of Congo for an Emergency Multisector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project, June 20,
2002

Technical Annex for a proposed grant of SDR 41.1 million (US$ 60 million equivalent) to the Democratic
Republic of Congo for an Emergency Social Action project grant




                                                        - 26 -

General DRC documents

Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, Democratic Republic of Congo, March 2002

Transitional Support Strategy for the Democratic Republic of Congo, World Bank, July 9, 2001

Transitional Support Strategy for the Democratic Republic of Congo, World Bank, January 26, 2004

Country Report, Democratic Republic of Congo, Economist Intelligence Unit, December 2004

Country Profile 2004, Democratic Republic of Congo, Economist Intelligence Unit, 2004




                                                     - 27 -

- 28 -

