Document of
The World Bank
Report No: T 7469 ZR
TECHNICAL ANNEX
FOR A PROPOSED GRANT OF SDR 40 MILLION
(US$50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
FOR AN
EMERGENCY EARLY RECOVERY PROJECT
July 9, 2001



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(exchange rate effective as of June 18, 2001
Currency Unit             =            Congolese Franc
US$1                                   355 CF
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                   African Development Bank
BCeCo                  Bureau Central de Coordination
CBO                    Community Based Organization
CDD                    Community Driven Development
CSO                    Central Statistical Office
CWIQ                   Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
EERP                   Emergency Early Recovery Project
ERRP                   Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Program
ESRC                   Economic Stabilization Recovery Project
FAO                    The Food and Agriculture Organization
FLC                    Front de Liberation du Congo
FOLECO                 Federation des ONG Laiques a vocation Economique du Congo
GTZ                    German Agency for Technical Co-operation
HIPC                   Heavily Indebted Poor Country
IBRD                   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                    International Development Association
ICB                    International Competitive Bidding
IMF                    International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP                 Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
IS                     International Shopping
MLC                    Mouvement de Liberation du Congo
MONUC                  Mission d'observation des Nations Unies au Congo
NCB                    National Competitive Bidding
NGO                    Non-governmental organization
NS                     National Shopping
PCF                    Post Conflict Fund
PNLS                   National Aids Program
PRGF                   Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRS                    Poverty Reduction Strategy
PSI                    Pre-shipment inspection
QCBS                   Quality and Cost-Based
QBS                    Quality-Based
RCD                    Rassemblement Congolais pour la Democratie
SDR                    Special Drawing Rights
SMP                    Staff-Monitored Program
SOE                    Statement of Expenditures
SS                     Single Source
TSS                    Transitional Support Strategy
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:    Demba Ba
Task Team Leader:    Onno Ruhl



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
EMERGENCY EARLY RECOVERY PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
Page
I. BACKGROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS ......................................................           1
A.    The Conflict and its Consequences ......................................................1
B.    A Window of Opportunity .....................................................3
C.    The Government's Interim Actions ......................................................3
D.    Building Administrative and Implementation Capacity ......................................................4
II. IDA'S RESPONSE .....................................................5
A.    The Transitional Support Strategy ......................................................5
B.    DRC's Relations with the Bank and the IMF ......................................................5
C.    Rationale for Early Grant Assistance ............6.........................................6
III. THE PROPOSED EMERGENCY EARLY RECOVERY PROJECT .......................................             8
A. Objectives                                               .8
B. Project Description                                           .8
I.  Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building (US$21 million)                .8
A. Capacity Building for Management of Donor Assistance (US$9 million)                  .8
B. Support to Good Governance and Economic Management (US$12 million)                    .      9
II. Addressing urgent needs and piloting implementation solutions (US$26 million) .            12
A. HIV/AIDS (US$8 million) .12
B. Community Driven Development Pilot Fund (US$3 million) .12
C. Infrastructure (US$15 million) .13
III. Unallocated amount (US$3 million)               ..13
C. Implementation Arrangements                      ..13






ANNEXES
1. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND CAPACITY BUILDING ............................... 17
2.  SUPPORT FOR  THE NATIONAL  ANTI-HIV/AIDS  CAMPAIGN  .....................                                             ................. 26
3. COMMUNITY DRIVEN DEVELOPMENT PILOT FUND ................................................... 32
4.  INFRASTRUCTURE  ...................................................... 35
5.  DISBURSEMENT  ARRANGEMENTS ..................................................... 42
6.  PROCUREMENT  ARRANGEMENTS ..................................................... 46






I. BACKGROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
A.  The Conflict and its Consequences
1.    The DRC has a population of around 50 million, the fourth largest in Africa and growing
at more than 3 percent a year (marred by deaths of 1-3 million from deprivation caused by the
1997-2001 conflict). A highly urbanized population is distributed over 2.3 million square
kilometers (more than two thirds of the European Union); Kinshasa, the capital, has a population
exceeding 8 million.
2.    The DRC is potentially one of the Africa's richest states, with extensive agricultural,
mineral, and energy resources. Its regional importance, with its internal waterways and land-
links to nine states, make the Congo potentially a regional engine of growth. However, the
promise has been repeatedly thwarted. A succession of governments have been able neither to
translate this potential into satisfactory living conditions for the Congolese nor to discourage the
corruption facilitated by the "curse of natural resources." The regime of Mobutu Sese Seko
(1965-97) was marked by corrupt mismanagement leading to a series of economic crises and the
near-disappearance of government support to social infrastructure. The collapse of the State was
punctuated by riots and plundering by an unpaid military (1991, 1993), which destroyed much of
the productive capital. Since the early 1 990s most bilateral and multilateral institutions, including
the World Bank and the IMF, suspended economic assistance.
3.    The overthrow of the Mobutu regime by the forces of Laurent Kabila (1997) first led to a
hoped-for peace and signs of revival but shortly thereafter to renewed conflict since 1998. Civil
war broke out anew in 1998 and drew in the Government, the rebel groups Front de Liberation
du Congo (FLC) and two factions of the Rassemblement Congolais pour la Democratie (RCD),
and six other nations and several militias opposing governments in the Great Lakes region.
Although detailed data are lacking, about 200,000 persons, mostly civilians may have been killed
by armed groups, while the mortality associated with the collapse of physical and social
infrastructure caused by the conflict could be as high as 1.5 million death since 1997.
4.    In August 1999 the Government, the three rebel factions and their five principal military
backers signed an accord in Lusaka, Zambia, while called for a ceasefire and troop standstill,
disarmament of the militias ("negative forces") by the de facto administration in each region, and
the initiation of an inter-Congolese dialogue leading to reunification and political solution to the
conflict. The Lusaka Accord was widely violated by all parties.
5.    Following the assassination of Laurent Kabila, in January 2001 all parties observed a
spontaneous cease-fire. Frontlines have since stabilized. The standstill places approximately 30-
40 percent of the land area with a population of 18 million under rebel control, and 32 million
people in Government-controlled areas.
6.    The international community is offering strong support for peace. Special envoys from
several nations and the European Union have participated in the Lusaka process. Humanitarian
assistance has been significant, however insufficient for the needs. African leaders from the



entire continent have provided assistance in the effort at reconciliation. The United Nations has
deployed nearly 500 military observers supported by 1,660 troops under Security Council
Resolutions 1341 and 1355, which redefine the mandate of the Mission d'Observation des
Nations Unies au Congo (MONUC). The cease-fire continues to be respected, troops redeployed
away from front lines, and foreign troops begun to be withdrawn. By the end of May 2001
MONUC had verified 60 percent of the redeployments and in June re-opened river transport on
sections of the Congo River crossing the front lines. The new president, Joseph Kabila, has stated
his support for the Lusaka process and the inter-Congolese dialogue and his willingness to work
with the facilitator, former president of Botswana Sir Ketumile Masire. President Kabila's initial
address also affirmed his commitment to improving living conditions in the country and to
liberalizing the economy, and requested the resumption of international assistance. A new
cabinet has placed respected technocrats in key economic and social positions. Political parties
have been permitted to operate freely. The ban on political parties was lifted, and the preparatory
meetings for the inter-Congolese dialogue are scheduled to begin July 16, 2001.
7.    Overall, the degree of consensus achieved both internally and externally, and the level of
Government commitment to dialogue and reform is much stronger than ever before. Since
Independence the Congolese have developed a strong sense of nationhood among geographically
widespread peoples of different ethnic origins, which has contributed to a national solidarity on
the need for a healing political process rather than partition. The government is beginning to
address economic and social problems in a systematic way.
8.    The country is facing a deep economic crisis. Although detailed data are lacking, about
200,000 persons (mostly civilians) may have been killed by armed groups, while the mortality
associated with the collapse of physical and social infrastructure caused by the conflict could be
as high as 1.5 million deaths since 1997. In areas affected by conflict a spot survey found a
neonatal mortality rate exceeding 10 percent, while 11 percent of pregnancies have resulted in
maternal death. The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) estimates that about a third of the
population (16 million people) are starving or malnourished. Transport infrastructure has nearly
collapsed, so markets are no longer connected; in many parts of the country, farmers can no
longer commercialize their surplus while urban food prices are high. The dislocation of public
administration has allowed for large fiscal evasion, in particular for duties on exports.
Government resources have shrunk to 5-7 percent of GDP. These resources were largely
allocated to the military to finance the war effort to the detriment of social sectors, while the civil
service pay scale has fallen to about US$0.40-4.00 a month (compared to about $150 a month
needed to feed an average household in Kinshasa).
9.    The economic and political conditions in the DRC pose a problem in the sub-region and
beyond. The conflict and instability in the DRC and the involvement of others have had a
devastating impact on the stability of all the countries concerned, on their fiscal viability and
their prospects for economic development. In particular, the DRC's natural resource wealth has
not contributed to development. Natural resources have long attracted foreign investors to the
DRC and provided a significant proportion of government revenues. They have also long led to
abuse and corruption on an international scale. The need of parties to the current conflict to
finance their military activities has led to unorthodox practices in the licensing and exploitation
of mineral resources; this in turn has created a separate conflict that cannot be simply resolved by
resolution of the political conflict.
-2-



B. A Window of Opportunity
10.   A window of opportunity has been created. The continued adherence by the warring
parties and others to the Lusaka Accord with the broad agreement of the international community
provides a possibility for peace, stability and economic growth not just in the DRC but in the
region. Because the government lacks the financial resources to support reconstruction and
growth, to avert further erosion in living conditions, external support is critical at this time to: (i)
create the small impetus necessary to keep the peace process on track at a critical time; (ii) send a
signal to all Congolese and the region that the end of violent conflict will bring international
support during a period of peaceful conflict resolution; and (iii) provide the necessary financial
resources for amortizing social shocks and eventually reviving the economy. Later, economic
recovery will provide the resources to sustain the process if the groundwork has been
successfully laid for good governance.
C.  The Government's Interim Actions
11.   The new Government is in the process of developing a strategy to address the DRC's
main challenges. This work builds on a number of earlier reports and plans, including a draft
Country Economic Memorandum prepared by the World Bank in 19981 and assessments
undertaken by Bank staff in late 1999 and in 2000. While designing this medium term strategy,
the Government is focusing on its immediate priorities for the next 12 months in a series of
interim actions.
12.   Macro-economic stability: First among its interim actions and to set the stage for its
medium-term recovery strategy, the Government is committed to stabilize the macro-economic
and financial environment by the end of 2001. Following the abolition in February of controls on
the diamond trade, on May 26 the Government floated the Congolese Franc liberalized
petroleum prices, and freed interest rates. The Government has agreed to an enhanced interim
program monitored by the IMF Staff (SMP); the Bank is providing support to further and deepen
the agenda on several key structural areas. The Government has also adopted a wide variety of
measures with several far-reaching ones foreseen to be adopted by the end of 2001. The
measures are aimed at breaking hyperinflation, stabilizing the economic situation, and laying the
foundation for the restoration of growth and reconstruction of the economy. The policies
undertaken to stop hyperinflation are based on restrictive budgetary and monetary policies.
Expenditures will be restrained by managing expenditures on a cash basis, by reducing the wage
bill and controlling non-salary expenditures, by reinstating expenditure controls in the provinces,
and by improving audits of the government and parastatals. Revenues will be increased largely
through re-liberalizing the diamond sector to restore revenues currently moving offshore, and by
rationalizing the tax and customs codes with a view to eliminating exemptions and deferrals and
to simplifying enforcement through centralized procedures. Broad money growth will be
controlled, and the government will introduce legislation reaffirming the independence of the
Central Bank. These measures have been supported by the IMF and are part of the SMP. If the
Government stabilizes the economy the IMF could support a medium-term development
program under a Poverty Reduction Growth Facility (PRGF).
Building the New Congo: A World Bank Economic Report. September, 1998.
-3 -



13.   Restitution of good governance: Rebuilding good governance is essential if the DRC is
to avoid returning to its corrupt and State-dominated past. The Government puts a high priority
on improving governance. Its immediate goals include: (i) promoting democratization (with an
emphasis on participatory processes); (ii) promoting justice (including property rights and the
institutions of rule of law) and transparency; (iii) monopolizing the means of coercion (including
demobilizing and reinserting soldiers and militias); (iv) redefining the role of the State, observing
the principle of subsidiarity; (v) developing partnership with the private sector including the
policy and regulatory environment; (vi) reforming the fiscal system; and (vii) rebuilding
institutional and human capacity within the administration. Among the government's interim
program structural measures are actions to weed out corruption particularly in the customs
services and tax administration, and to eliminate the unauthorized use of fiscal authority by
individuals and non-fiscal administrations. Commercial courts will be established and matters of
an economic, financial or commercial nature will no longer be referred to military courts. The
government is developing an action plan for public enterprise reforn that it expects to be ready
by March 2002. In the meantime plans are already underway for reform of specific enterprises
particularly in energy and telecommunications.
14.   Government priority activities: To accompany its economic stabilization efforts the
government has drawn up a list of priority activities. In addition to the importance of each
contribution, the donor inflows associated with implementation of this activities will provide
employment and to some extent offset the effects of the stabilization program. This list, which
amounts to about US$155 million, is extracted from the ambitious Minimum Triennial Program
of investments, prepared in 1997 but never implemented. It includes: (i) urgent and visible
projects, in the infrastructure, social, and agriculture sectors, which can be implemented within
the next 6 to 12 months; (ii) institutional support, including to improve the environment for
private investments; and (iii) preparatory activities for the next phase (e.g., technical studies).
D.  Building Administrative and Implementation Capacity
15.   Public administrative capacity has severely deteriorated. The conflict, years of
mismanagement and an inadequate government salary scale have aggravated the problem of
corruption. There are huge logistical bottlenecks, in particular due to the collapse of the transport
infrastructure network. With financing becoming available, a variety of innovative arrangements
should be deployed (in addition to intensive efforts to rebuild capacity) to prevent
implementation capacity from becoming the major constraint to successful recovery.
16.   To wait for effective public institutions and a competitive private sector to be in place is
not an option. For the DRC to recover and for the sub-region to reach some stability, the ability
to manage large amounts of early external assistance capably and transparently is necessary. The
Congolese authorities are aware of this issue and committed to addressing it. In particular, the
Government is committed to providing a framework for effective donor coordination in order to
maximize the impact and efficiency of external assistance. For the Government, the Bank and
other donors, the challenge over the coming years will be to identify, test, develop, and adjust
effective and sustainable mechanisms for medium-term aid delivery. In meeting this challenge,
creative use will have to be made of the strong community based service delivery mechanisms
that have allowed the Congolese people to cope with hardships during the conflict. Deploying
- 4 -



IDA assistance through the proposed Project would be a key tool in addressing this challenge
during the early phase of recovery.
II. IDA'S RESPONSE
A.  The Transitional Support Strategy
17.  IDA's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS), which is being presented to the Board with
the proposed Project, is designed to contribute to the transition to peace and stability in DRC and
the sub-region by attracting and providing economic assistance to accompany the government's
efforts to rebuild the economy and set it on the path of growth. The strategy hinges on support
for three sets of activities, to be undertaken in a phased manner:
* Stabilization (May 2001-early 2002). to accompany the government's efforts to address the
most urgent needs and to prepare for further assistance. This would primarily be financial
assistance provided under this TSS before arrears clearance. Beginning immediately the
Bank can finance urgent projects aimed at mitigating social instability, launching a program
for disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration, and preparing for further, broader
involvement.
* Recovery (January 2002, and lasting around two years to continue to rebuild essential
capacity within institutions, remove bottlenecks to economic activities, and continue to
address urgent issues. The TSS provides for the preparatory work for these activities where
they are identified, and the research necessary to identify activities to be included for
possible financing. Given the history of corruption and the current low implementation
capability, many parts of this would be implemented through delegated contract management
with non-traditional monitoring mechanisms put in place during the TSS period. Token
assistance to build and test capacity is inappropriate: the country's immense needs require
that assistance must be large from the beginning. The implementation mechanisms will
remove key bottlenecks to economic recovery (including regulatory and transport
constraints), mobilize and generate resources and investments, restructure public enterprises
and address the most urgent needs that could affect the DRC's long-term development
prospects (e.g., HIV/AIDS, demobilization, basic social services and infrastructure).
However, a parallel effort will build essential administrative capacity to increase absorption
potential. It is essential to also provide support on designing and implementing expenditure
management and reporting systems, to underpin structural reforms.
* Development once the situation will have improved and traditional development activities
can be implemented. Under this TSS the economic and sector work to prepare for this stage
will be begun, to prepare the knowledge base for a country assistance strategy.
B. DRC's Relations with the Bank and the IMF
18.   The Bank Group suspended processing of new operations in 1990 and disbursements in
1993. The DRC's arrears to the Bank amount to over US$300 million. A series of Bank missions
between March 1998 and the end of 2000 led to a draft Country Economic Memorandum and a
certain measure of dialogue including an early sketch of a recovery strategy. However, there was
- 5 -



no scope for genuine re-engagement until the appointment of Joseph Kabila in January 2001.
When the new President appointed a technocratic Government in April, circumstances changed
drastically. The Government has agreed to a Staff-Monitored Program (SMP) with the IMF. The
SMP would provide the DRC with the opportunity to establish a strong track record that could
lead to support under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) underpinned by an
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) and clearance of arrears. Steady
implementation of the PRGF and other economic policy measures should allow the DRC to seek
debt relief under the HIPC framework, with a view to reducing its heavy debt burden to
sustainable levels. In parallel with the preparation of the SMP, the Bank made rapid progress in
developing a Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) as well as the proposed Project.
19.   DRC's Arrears and Bank Intervention. Arrears to multilateral creditors are large:
arrears to IBRD and IDA currently total around US$306 million (as of late June, 2001), arrears
to the IMF total around US$500 million, and arrears to the AfDB total around US$800 million.
Early arrears clearance is important as the policies of all three institutions require arrears to be
cleared before new lending by the institution concerned can resume. Over the coming months,
Bank staff will work with the authorities and with staff from the IMF and the AfDB to develop a
comprehensive approach to arrears clearance. A key underlying principle of this approach will be
that all arrears to multilateral creditors must be cleared within a reasonable timeframe within the
context of a concerted international effort to provide sufficient new financing to DRC. Such an
approach may involve sequential clearance of arrears to the Bank, the IMF and the AfDB, and
arrears to some creditors may need to be cleared after the decision point. However, from the
Bank's perspective, having a plan in place to clear arrears to all multilaterals would be
considered a pre-condition for moving to the decision point. A more detailed discussion of a
roadmap toward arrears clearance is contained in the TSS.
20.   Current Bank Activities. The Bank carries out a selected number of technical assistance
activities funded by limited trust funds, the IDF and the PCF facilities, covering mining, banking
sector restructuring, macro-economic management (statistics, customs, budget, audit of
commercial banks), demobilization of child soldiers and reintegration of street children. In
addition, the Bank is managing the Economic Stabilization Recovery Project a multi-donor trust
fund which aims at helping, through NGOs and local Governments, the country tackle the worst
manifestations of poverty. Sector-specific missions to supervise the different grants are taking
place on an ongoing basis. In addition DRC participates in the donor financed Sub-Saharan
Transport Program which networks African government capacity in policy development and
implementation in selected areas of the transport sector. It is also participating in the Nile Basin
Initiative and several programs offered by WBI.
C.  Rationale for Early Grant Assistance
21.   The proposed IDA Grant of US$50 million would allow the Bank to provide timely
assistance to DRC in the key period before regular Bank financing becomes available, the same
period during which the Government of DRC is implementing courageous and costly policy
measures (see para. 10-13). The Grant would also enable the Bank to catalyze additional donor
- 6 -



funds, as has been demonstrated successfully in a number of other cases2. The proposed
Emergency Early Recovery Project, to be financed from the Grant, would provide the DRC with
effective assistance for urgent measures in the first stage of recovery, critical to set policy
frameworks and ensure appropriate safeguards on financial, governance, environment and other
areas crucial to obtaining donor financing. The proposed Project would enable the Government
to (i) build up its implementation capacity; (ii) implement the reforms in its interim program and
supported by the IMF Staff Monitored Program; (iii) formulate an overall strategy for recovery;
and (iv) show results on the ground and test implementation mechanisms in high priority areas
such as HIV/AIDS and infrastructure. This could make a significant contribution to
consolidating the current window of opportunity into a genuine move to stability and sustainable
economic growth, which would have a positive impact not only on DRC but on the entire sub-
region.
22.    Legal Basis for Assistance to  a Non-Accrual Member. Under IDA's Twelfth
Replenishment resolution, IDA 12 donor funds may be used for grants in the context of assistance
to post-conflict countries under a framework approved by the Executive Directors.3 Current
World Bank policy with respect to post-conflict assistance is set out in OP 2.30, "Development
Cooperation and Conflict", World Bank Operational Policy 2.30, January 2001. The IDA12
replenishment report gave further guidance on the provision by IDA of post-conflict grants. In
order for post-conflict grant assistance to be justified, the following conditions need to be met: (i)
the proposed grant has been designed in accordance with OP 2.30; (ii) early performance is
promising as evidenced by the recipient country having taken convincing steps towards social
and economic recovery; (iii) arrears to IBRD and/or IDA are large and protracted, and cannot be
easily or quickly cleared using domestic resources; (iv) a concerted international effort to
provide positive financial flows and other assistance is underway, and other creditors have
agreed not to make net withdrawals of financial resources from the country; and (v) alternative
sources of financing for post-conflict recovery are inadequate or available only on inappropriate
terms.
23.    With respect to condition (i) above, the objectives, terms and conditions of the proposed
EERP grant for the Democratic Republic of Congo are consistent with OP 2.30. With respect to
condition (ii), the recent performance of the Government (see paras. 11-14) and the agreement on
an IMF SMP, justify Bank involvement from a performance standpoint. With respect to
condition (iii), DRC has been in non-accrual since 1993, and total arrears to the IBRD and IDA
amount to over $300 million. The proposed EERP for DRC forms a part of a concerted, on-going
international assistance effort with participation from UN and other multilateral agencies, as well
as bilateral donors, which satisfies condition (iv). As outlined in para. 19, the Government and
the three IFIs have agreed on a satisfactory approach to arrears accumulation, as well as on a
road map for arrears clearance. Lastly, condition (v) is met because the amounts available from
2General trust funds with purposes similar to the proposed Grant have been established to provide assistance to non-
members and non-accrual members for purposes considered beneficial to the members, including trust funds for the
former Soviet Union (1991), the West Bank and Gaza (1993), Bosnia and Herzegovina (1995), East Timor (1999),
and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (2001). While each of these cases is unique, in each case a determination
was made that the economic development of the country or territory could have significant benefits for the active
members.
3Section 9 of Resolution No. IDA 194, "Additions to IDA's Resources: Twelfth Replenishment, A Partnership for
Poverty Reduction", adopted April 8, 1999.
- 7-



altemative sources in the pre-arrears clearance phase are clearly not sufficient to meet DRC's
needs. In view of the foregoing, the necessary conditions envisaged for IDA extending a post-
conflict grant have been met.
III. THE PROPOSED EMERGENCY EARLY RECOVERY PROJECT
A.   Objectives
24.   The proposed Emergency Early Recovery Project (EERP) would finance a limited set of
priority activities to provide the backbone of the assistance defined by the Government to
accompany its program of interim actions (see paras 11-14); in particular to address head on the
key short term constraints identified in the TSS: the extremely limited implementation capacity
for assistance and the overall institutional weakness of public institutions. Lessons from other
post conflict situations show that it is key to ensure effective and transparent implementation of
donor financed projects early on, as well as to focus on re-building effective public institutions
so as to reinforce economic governance. In addition, the EERP would finance a small number of
interventions to address urgent needs, both to show results on the ground in key areas and to pilot
implementation solutions designed to deliver results in the current environment with efficiency
and transparency. These interventions would be limited to areas of DRC where projects can be
implemented safely, without undue risk to project staff. In practice this would mean that in case
of doubt, guidance would be sought from actors in the field, such as MONUC and key bilaterals,
as to the situation on the ground.
B.  Project Description
25.   The Government's Programme Intirimaire de Renforcement du Gouvernement (see para
14) as well as the Bank's TSS provide the framework for EERP activities. The activities will aim
to support the over-arching objectives of strengthening implementation capacity and re-building
the state. In addition, the implementation solutions will be tested on a limited scale to achieve
some rapid and visible results directly benefiting the population. Larger scale interventions to
achieve results on the ground could not be implemented before the capacity building effort takes
hold, i.e. in the next phase of the assistance program. The EERP could also serve as a conduit for
assistance from other donors, either through co-financing or parallel financing. The EERP will
have the following two components: (i) institutional strengthening and capacity building; and (ii)
addressing urgent needs and piloting implementation solutions:
1. Institutional Strenf-theninR and Capacity Building (US$21 million)
A. Capacity Buildingfor Management of Donor Assistance (US$9 million)
Objectives. This component will assist the Government in building capacity to manage
external assistance, so as to prepare the ground for the recovery phase during which
levels of external assistance are expected to be large. The specific objectives would be to:
(i) establish a track record of performance through successful and transparent
implementation of the activities financed under the proposed Project; (ii) strengthen
- 8 -



implementation capacity and transparency in key ministries and utilities which are
expected to play a significant role in the implementation of the recovery program; and
(iii) complete engineering for priority works to be financed in the first dry season in 2002
(May until September) in order to achieve maximum impact during the first months of
the recovery phase.
(i) Implementation of the EERP (US$3 million). This would consist of financing the
re-vamping the implementing agency, Bureau Central de Coordination (BCeCo) to equip
it for the implementation both of the Emergency Fund (its original mandate) as well as
the EERP. Financing will be provided for a management firm which would set up the
procurement system in BCeCo, as well as implement procurement actions. The firm
would work closely with the managing director and staff of BCeCo to ensure transfer of
knowledge and creation of sustainable procurement capacity. The management firm
would also provide assistance to the financial management of BCeCo. In the initial period
of the project, individual consultants would assist in the procurement of the management
firm as well as in finalizing the initial round of services contracts for the CDD and
HIV/AIDS components. Financial management assistance in the initial period would be
provided by one of the three big five auditing firms represented in Kinshasa. Financing
will also be provided to cover BCeCo's operation costs during the project period.
(ii) Strengthen implementation capacity in key ministries and institutions (US$1
million). Support will be provided for a capacity building and training program for key
ministries and utilities so as to set the stage for a larger donor financed program upon
clearance of arrears. This program would target the institutions dealing with health care,
roads, urban development, community driven development, the main utilities, and the
mining sector. Implementation of this component will only commence after BCeCo's
capacity has reached a satisfactory level, and on the condition that the outlook for
clearance of arrears and resumption of large scale donor assistance remains favorable.
(iii) Engineering for priority works (US$5 million). As resumption of large scale
assistance is expected only at the beginning of 2002, there would not be sufficient time to
complete engineering for priority infrastructure works in time for the main construction
season in May. This would mean that the recovery program could have significant impact
in tenns of rebuilding priority infrastructure only after more than a year, with obvious
consequences for the credibility of the program. Support will therefore be provided for
feasibility studies, final design and bidding documents for priority works defined in the
course of preparation of the Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Program
(ERRP) for implementation during the first construction season in 2002. Engineering for
works in the transport sector is included in the infrastructure component of the proposed
Project.
B. Support to Good Governance and Economic Management (US$12 million)
Objectives. This component will assist the Government in addressing priority capacity
building and technical assistance needs in the next twelve months. These needs have been
defined in view of the Government's stated intention to adjust its role to the needs of a
-9-



social market economy: provider of key social and public services, regulator of economic
activity and creator and facilitator of a sound business and investment climate, so as to
allow the private sector to generate economic growth. This means that instead of simply
rebuilding "old-style" Government institutions, the component will focus on supporting the
Government to achieve a limited set of objectives that would provide the building blocks
for sound economic governance:
* Improve revenue generating capacity;
*  linprove capacity to manage public resources;
*  Address key impediments to private sector activity;
*  Improve public dissemination and debate on economic reforms.
Description. Learning from previous capacity building efforts in DRC, the activities to
be financed under this component have been designed to support the key measures that
the Government will implement in the context of the of the IMF SMP, as well as the
World Bank TSS. Terms of reference for each activity will be agreed as an integral part
of the policy dialogue in the areas to be supported, so as to ensure synergy. As it is
envisaged that specific needs might evolve --even over the short implementation period
of the project--, the component is designed to be flexible, within the objectives stated
above. The decision mechanism to be put in place to ensure this flexibility is described in
the section on Implementation Arrangements below. The initial set of activities to be
financed is as follows:
(i) Improve revenue generating capacity (US$2 million). Support will be provided for
capacity building for the fiscal administration, customs administration and Central Bank.
The specific capacity building needs for these organizations are being identified in
consultation with IMF technical assistance missions. The project would finance
assistance according to terms of reference and specifications agreed between the relevant
agency and the IMF.
(ii) Improve capacity to manage public resources (US$5.75 million).
* Support will be provided to the Ministry of Finance to strengthen public resource
management. Initially this would concentrate on supporting technical assistance
provided by the IMF's statistical department to improve government finance
statistics by financing urgent computer and other equipment needs. This may be
followed by further assistance as defined in the context of the Public Expenditure
Review.
* A Post Conflict Grant will soon be in place to prepare a Post-Conflict Rapid
Assessment of Living Conditions and Infrastructure. In follow-up to these
preparatory activities, the proposed Project will finance:
(i)  A community survey based on the previously designed questionnaire, to assess
living and infrastructure conditions. This survey will be executed in the entire
country by partners in the field identified and selected during the previous
feasibility study.
(ii) An analysis of the data in the form of a detailed survey report and a properly
documented electronic data set of the survey results.
- 10 -



*  Support will be provided to the Ministry of Plan to develop a frameworkfor donor
coordination and to commence work on public investment planning, two activities
that go hand in hand. The initial objective would be to assist the Government in
preparing a priority recovery program to be presented at the donor conference
planned for late 2001, and to set up capacity for donor coordination in the context of
this program. Subsequently, work would shift to assistance in setting up a framework
for public investment planning with the ultimate objective of developing a three year
rolling Public Investment Plan which would incorporate input from the I-PRSP
process;
*  Support will be provided to develop new procurement legislation. The current
procurement legislation dates from 1969, and clearly needs a lot of updating and
improvement. Updating the legislation would be a key first step in the process to
strengthen DRC's public procurement system and transparency in public
transactions.
(iii) Address key impediments to private sector activity (US$4 million).
The current legal and regulatory environment in DRC leaves much to be desired,
translating into huge needs for policy formulation and legal and regulatory technical
assistance. Assistance under this component will therefore be focused on a narrow set of
objectives: (i) to help DRC move to a sound legal framework for legitimate investment,
especially in the key mining sector; (ii) to assist in the creation of a sound regulatory
framework for sectors affecting the overall competitiveness of the economy. Even these
needs can neither be addressed quickly, nor by just one donor organization. Bank
missions have therefore worked closely with key donor representatives in Kinshasa to
ensure coordination and careful prioritization of support. For instance, an agreement has
been reached that USAID will provide technical assistance for reform of the energy
sector, in consultation with Bank experts. The proposed Project will concentrate on those
areas where there is already a fruitful dialogue with the Government and where other
donors are not yet active.
*  Support will be provided to follow up the IDF financed preparation of a new Mining
Law. Activities to be financed include: capacity building at the Government level to
enforce the Law; this includes: (i) discussion and promotion of the new Mining Law;
(ii) training of Government officials in the implementation of the new law; (iii) set up
the Mining Cadastre, to ensure the transparent allocation of mining rights; (iv) set up
a Inter-ministerial Committee for the confirmation or denial of the rights of existing
title holders; (v) review of the investment agreements signed under the previous
regimes to assess their rights under the proposed legal framework;
*  Support will be provided for the implementation of the new Investment Code, which
was prepared with FIAS assistance. The code will provide transparent incentives for
domestic and foreign investors and clarify the rights and responsibilities of investors,
regulatory agencies, regional governments and the fiscal authorities. The dialogue
with the Government on the investment code has been extremely productive, leading
to presentation of the new draft to Parliament within days of return to Kinshasa of the
Congolese delegation to the FIAS workshop. The code calls for setting up a guichet
unique (one-stop shop) for investment registration, which will be financed from the
proposed Project;
- 11 -



*  Support will be provided for urgent improvement of the regulatory framework for
telecommunication. There are seven mobile phone networks in DRC which function
without proper licensing, with spotty interconnection at best. In addition, the mobile
phone companies have built up large arrears to the fixed line company (OPTC) for
international traffic. The proposed Project will finance technical assistance to address
these problems on an urgent basis;
*  Support will be provided for an assessment of the legal framework and market for
legal services in the commercial law area. The assessment will be focused on the need
to establish an effective system for the adjudication of commercial cases. This will
complement the activities financed by the European Union under the Justice Support
Program, which focuses on rehabilitation of court buildings, and capacity building
and awareness raising activities on criminal law and the rule of law in general.
(iv) Improve public dissemination and debate on economic reforms (US$0.25
million). The Government considers public dissemination and debate on economic
reforms vital for the success and sustainability of its program. At the time of
implementation of the foreign exchange liberalization Government officials appeared
widely in the national media to explain the need for these measures. This seems to have
worked well, as public acceptance of the necessity of these difficult measures is quite
high. Nevertheless, it became clear that the impact of the Government's efforts was
limited by the fact that communications were done only in French. Support will therefore
be provided to facilitate communication and debate reaching a wider audience, both
geographically and in terms of language.
rI. Addressing urgent needs and pilotin- implementation solutions (US$26 million)
A. HIVIAIDS (US$8 million)
The HIV situation is expected to have worsened in particular due to the displacement of
large populations and the sprawling of shantytowns around the major urban centers. DRC
has set up a National AIDS Program (PNLS), which remains insufficiently funded and
inadequate to address the AIDS crisis. In particular, although the activities foreseen under
the PNLS are well formulated and coherent, the programs on the ground tend to be
heavily focused on Kinshasa due to resource constraints. Therefore, this sub component
will finance a scale-up of activities using those agencies that already have a track record
of successful implementation in the respective areas. This would facilitate a wider
geographical impact of the program. Specifically, the sub component would support (i)
social awareness activities and the distribution of condoms; (ii) blood transfusion
security; and (iii) diagnostics and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases.
B. Community Driven Development Pilot Fund (US$3 million)
The sub component will finance the establishment of a pilot fund for community driven
development activities in rural areas. The menu of eligible infrastructure/services will
include, but not be limited to, the reconstruction and rehabilitation of rural roads, bridges,
schools, hospitals, and sanitation and water management systems.
- 12-



As the only effective providers of services to the population for the past thirty years,
NGOs will implement this project component through a services contract. However, to
support the government effort in rebuilding the state and an administration, implementing
NGOs will be required to work in cooperation with local authorities. Emphasis will be
placed on implementation solutions that lead to a sustainable mechanism of maintenance
of the infrastructure/service rebuilt. If the tested implementation arrangements were
successful, they could be replicated in a future, scaled-up operation.
C. Infrastructure (US$15 million)
This sub component will focus on only one road, which is generally recognized as having
the most potential for immediate impact on the livelihood of a large part of the
population: the road from the port of Matadi to Kinshasa, the sole supply route from the
Atlantic Ocean to the capital city and the inland transport system serving the entire
country. This road, commonly referred to as "the inflation road", has deteriorated to a
state where about 200 km out of a total of 350 km is now essentially an unpaved road,
leading to frequent mudslides and back-ups of up to 500 trucks in each direction at any
given point in time. It is estimated that the cost of transportation from Matadi to Kinshasa
adds an average of 40 percent to the cost of goods in the Kinshasa market. The proposed
Project will finance work on crucial points on RNI between Kinshasa and Matadi so as to
make the road passable in all seasons pending its rehabilitation. This will complement
earlier works financed by the European Union, which will henceforth concentrate its
efforts to the Kinshasa-Kikwit section of RN1. In addition, this component will support
strengthening of the Roads Agency for preparation and monitoring of the work financed
by this component, as well as capacity-building in institutions in the transport sector to
prepare a priority investment program, and the preparation of a framework for
maintenance and an overall regulatory framework for the sector. Finally, this project
component will finance engineering studies for future infrastructure priorities.
III. Unallocated amount (US$3 million).
In view of the need to remain flexible in DRC's highly uncertain environment, and
amount of US$3 million would be kept unallocated.
C.  Implementation Arrangements
26.   Implementation capacity in DRC. Several recent missions by Bank staff specializing in
issues of financial management and procurement allowed the country team to develop a better
understanding of the country's capacity to implement projects. The missions concluded that the
budget and control systems for public expenditures are in a state of considerable disarray. While
there are elaborate procedures and controls prescribed in the legislation and in regulations, these
are by-passed, simply ignored or if followed (e.g. preparation of annual budget), they are
virtually meaningless since there is no effective follow-up, adequate reporting or meaningful
controls over expenditures.
- 13 -



27.   Current state of procurement procedures in DRC. Bank staff have carried out an
initial assessment of the state of DRC's procurement procedures in May 2001. This review
revealed that legislation regulating procurement is still based in large part on Law No. 69-279 of
December 5, 1969. The procedures described in this law are generally consistent with
commercial practices, but present serious limitations such as: (i) the law does not make any clear
distinction in the procurement of goods and works, and does not cover services; (ii) the law has
become obsolete and is not longer suitable for modem procurement practice; and (iii) exceptions
to the law have become so numerous in the country that now they constitute the norm, as proven
by the fact that in the year 2000, only 23 out of 163 contracts were awarded by the relevant
ministries following regular procedures. In addition, procurement capacity in institutions that
previously implemented donor financed projects has lost most of its value due to the eight year
period of "hibernation" in the implementation of such projects.
28.   Need for rapid implementation. There is a compelling need for rapid implementation.
The issue is how to manage the shortcomings mentioned above. Experience in other post conflict
situations indicates that this can best be achieved by creating, on a temporary basis, a unit
dedicated to implement procurement, disbursement and a financial management. This unit can
subsequently be used as the basis for strengthening the capacity of other institutions, so as to
ensure sustainable capacity building. In addition, it is essential that donors agree up-front to work
together so as to minimize the burden on the very weak Congolese institutions. The proposed
Project is expressly intended to further the TSS objective of providing a framework for donor
coordination.
29.   Implications for IDA operations. In the context as described above, IDA cannot rely on
any of the existing controls and procedures. Therefore in the initial period IDA operations need
to be implemented with "ring-fenced" financial management, disbursement and procurement
procedures relying on IDA rules only. To ensure both effective implementation and knowledge
transfer, the projects will be managed by a combined team of international experts and senior
Congolese staff. This will enable a gradual transfer of responsibilities to the Congolese staff
when justified. Until local capacity has been established to the satisfaction of IDA, however, the
international experts would be expected to be primarily responsible for the sound implementation
of the procedures.
30.  Implementation Arrangements. Overall implementation responsibility will rest with a
central execution office under the Ministry of Finance, Bureau Central de Coordination
(BCeCo). In addition to the proposed project, BCeCo will also manage the Emergency
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (see para 25). BCeCo has been established by
Presidential Decree as a temporary institution responsible for ensuring efficient and transparent
implementation of donor financed projects. BCeCo is under the responsibility of the Minister of
Finance, who will decide inter alia which projects would be managed by BCeCo. Regular
oversight is provided by the Comite de Pilotage, a three person steering committee chaired by a
senior official of the Ministry of Finance and with representation of the Ministry of Plan and the
Presidency. The Comite de Pilotage will approve all terms of reference for assistance to be
financed from the Project. Terms of reference will also be subject to IDA's approval. BCeCo
would engage a management firm which would set up the procurement system in BCeCo, and
would implement procurement actions and financial management. The firm would work closely
with the managing director and staff of BCeCo to ensure transfer of knowledge and the creation
- 14 -



of sustainable procurement capacity. In the initial months, individual consultants would assist in
the procurement of the management firm as well as in finalizing the initial round of services
contracts for the CDD and HIV/AIDS components. Financial management assistance in the
initial period would be provided by one of the three big five auditing firms represented in
Kinshasa.
31.   Disbursements. Upon grant signing, BCeCo will open a Special Account in US dollars
in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. At this time, only two banks meet IDA's eligibility
criteria. Due to the high risk environment, both banks would keep the funds in accounts in New
York, while maintaining liquidity levels in DRC only to meet timely local payments based on the
anticipated needs for the Project. The Special Account authorized allocation will be in an amount
of US$4 million, which amount could be increased to US$7 million once BCeCo had established
a track record of sound financial management to the satisfaction of IDA. The initial allocation
and subsequent increase have been set to exclude large direct payments under civil works
contracts for the infrastructure component, and the services contracts for the HIV/AIDS and
CDD sub components. Withdrawal applications will be signed by the Director of Treasury or an
alternate, as designated by the Minister of Finance. Such person will not be a member of the
Comite de Pilotage. A streamlined system of approval and signature with adequate internal
controls arrangements was endorsed by the government at negotiations. The arrangements
described above were agreed to at negotiations and will be reflected in the Procedures Manual
for the Project.
32.   Procurement. Procurement under the project would be in accordance with World Bank
procedures. A detailed procurement plan for the first six months of implementation is under
preparation. Submission of this plan, satisfactory to IDA will be a condition of effectiveness of
the Project. Until BCeCo has satisfactory procurement capacity, the implementation of all
procurement actions will be the responsibility of the international technical assistance provided
to BCeCo for this purpose. The signature of the relevant international expert will be required on
all procurement documents. Sectoral agencies, such as the Office des Routes for the
infrastructure component, will provide technical input into the process, however they would not
be responsible for any procurement actions during the entire project period. For the CDD and
HIV/AIDS components, BCeCo would enter into services contracts with selected donor agencies
and NGOs in order to achieve maximum impact during the project period. These services
contracts would spell out clear work programs, resources to be provided, as well as performance
criteria.
33.   Financial Management and Audit Requirements. In view of the risks posed by the
environment in DRC, all project accounts will be subject to six monthly audits by external
auditors acceptable to IDA. Services contracts for the CDD and HIV/AIDS sub components will
include clear financial reporting requirements acceptable to IDA. Financial management
technical assistance will be provided by reputable firms during the entire project period: in the
initial period by one of the big five auditing firms represented in Kinshasa, and after that by the
management firm. The appointment of an external auditor, as well the (different) audit firm who
will provide technical assistance would be conditions of effectiveness of the grant. The
recruitment for these two tasks is currently under way.
- 15 -



34.   Monitoring and Evaluation. Progress in the Institutional Strengthening and Capacity
Building Component will be monitored as part of the overall policy dialogue between the
Government and IDA, as well as the IMF. The relevant Bank missions and IMF technical
assistance missions will assess progress with their counterparts on the occasion of every visit. In
practice, this would result in field reviews at least every three months on average for each sub
component. For the infrastructure component, in addition to regular supervision, a technical audit
of the work would be carried out, financed from the Project. For the CDD component, an in-
depth evaluation will be carried out two months before the end of the first phase of the sub
component, which would consist of only one services contract. As with the HIV/AIDS sub
component, each services contract would contain a clear work program as well as performance
indicators, against which work would be supervised by both BCeCo and IDA.
- 16 -



ANNEX I
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND CAPACITY BUILDING
Capacity Building! for Management of Donor Assistance (US$9 million)
Objectives
This component will assist the Government in building capacity to manage external assistance,
so as to prepare the ground for the recovery phase during which levels of external assistance are
expected to be large. The specific objectives would be to: (i) establish a track record of
performance through successful and transparent implementation of the activities financed under
the proposed Project; (ii) strengthen implementation capacity and transparency in key ministries
and utilities which are expected to play a significant role in the implementation of the recover
program; and (iii) complete engineering for priority works to be financed in the first dry season
in 2002 (May until September) in order to achieve maximum impact during the first months of
the recovery phase.
Description
Implementation of the EERP (US$3 million). This would consist of financing for the cost of
re-vamping BCeCo to equip it for the implementation both of the Emergency Fund (its original
mandate) as well as the EERP. Financing will be provided for a management firm which would
set up the procurement system in BCeCo, as well as implement procurement actions. The firm
would work closely with the Managing Director and staff of BCeCo to ensure transfer of
knowledge and creation of sustainable procurement capacity. The management firm would also
provide assistance to the financial management of BCeCo. In the initial period of the project,
individual consultants would assist in the procurement of the management firm as well as in
finalizing the initial round of services contracts in the context of the CDD and HIV/AIDS
components. Financial management assistance in the initial period would be provided by a small
contract with one of the three big five auditing firms represented in Kinshasa. Financing will also
be provided to cover BCeCo's operation costs during the project period.
Strengthen implementation capacity in key ministries and institutions (US$1 million).
Support will be provided for a capacity building and training program for key ministries and
utilities so as to set the stage for a larger donor financed program upon clearance of arrears. This
program would aim at the institutions dealing with health care, roads, urban development,
community driven development, the main utilities, and the mining sector. Implementation of this
component will only commence after BCeCo's capacity would have reached a satisfactory level,
and on the condition that the outlook for clearance of arrears and resumption of large scale donor
assistance would remain favorable.
Engineering for priority works (US$5 million). Most of DRC has two construction seasons. In
Kinshasa and surroundings there is a long dry period from mid May to September, and another
shorter one, which allows only limited construction activities, from mid December to February.
- 17-



As resumption of large scale assistance is expected only at the beginning of 2002, there would
not be sufficient time to complete engineering for priority infrastructure works in time for the
main construction season in May. This would mean that the recovery program could have
significant impact in terms of rebuilding priority infrastructure only after more than a year, with
obvious consequences for the credibility of the programn. Support will therefore be provided for
feasibility studies, final design and bidding documents for priority works defined in the course of
preparation of the Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Program (ERRP) for
implementation during the first construction season in 2002. Engineering for works in the
transport sector is included in the transport component of the proposed Project.
Justification
The suspension of most donor funded activities since 1993 and the weak implementation record
before that have left DRC without a credible track record of transparent and efficient
implementation. This severely limits the scope for successful implementation of a large recovery
program. Nevertheless, the needs for assistance are huge, and they cannot be fulfilled by the
private sector alone. Assisting the Government in building a nucleus of implementation capacity
and showing credible results on the ground will help DRC starting to build a different track
record of performance. The subsequent activities of strengthening capacity in key agencies and
financing engineering for the first works to be financed under the recovery program will enhance
the short term impact of this program, and thus the credibility of the Government's overall effort
as well as of the support of the international community.
Costs
The total cost of this sub component is US$ 9 million. For a detailed breakdown, see the table
under the Costs section of the Support for Good Governance and Economic Management sub
component below.
Implementation Arrangements
BCeCo will be responsible for the implementation of this component. A detailed procurement for
this sub component is included in the section on implementation arrangements under the Support
for Good Governance and Economic Management Component. Terms of reference for
engineering for priority works to be financed will be developed in the context of Bank
preparation missions for the ERRP. Subsequently, the General Director of BCeCo will submit
these terms of reference to the Comite de Pilotage of BCeCo for approval. Once approved by the
Comite de Pilotage, all terms of reference will be subject for no objection by IDA. With the
exception of BCeCo itself, the choice of the agencies which would benefit from the capacity
building and training program as well as the terms of reference for the program itself would be
subject to no objection by IDA.
- 18-



Implementation Risks
This component is key to the overall implementation risks of the EERP. Lack of transparency
and/or efficiency in BCeCo's management of the operation would not only discredit the EERP
itself, it would do serious damage to DRC's already weak reputation in this area, thereby
potentially jeopardizing the recovery effort. These risks will therefore mitigated by the use of a
reputable management firm as well as effective ring-fencing of BCeCo's operations. The other
risks to the other two components are mainly caused by the fact that the overall progress toward
arrears clearance and resumption of large scale assistance might stall. This risk is mitigated by
delaying the start of the training program and making it subject to continued progress, as well as
by tying the definition of the engineering to the preparation of the ERRP, which would only
proceed in case of continued progress.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Bank supervision missions, as well as the Bank Office in Kinshasa would monitor this
component very closely, both through prior review and through regular site visits and post
review. Performance indicators would be established in the Project Implementation Plan,
currently under preparation, which would include benchmarks on transparency. The engineering
component would be monitored in the context of the preparation, appraisal and supervision of
the ERRP.
Support to Good Governance and Economic Management (US$12 million)
Objectives
This component will assist the Government in addressing priority capacity building and technical
assistance needs in the next twelve months. These needs have been defined in view of the
Government's stated intention to adjust its role to the needs of a social market economy:
provider of key social and public services, regulator of economic activity and creator and
facilitator of a sound business and investment climate, so as to allow the private sector to
generate economic growth. This means that instead of rebuilding capacity that existed
previously, the component will focus on supporting the Government to achieve a limited set of
objectives that would provide the building blocks for sound economic governance:
*  Improve revenue generating capacity;
*  Improve capacity to manage public resources;
*  Address key impediments to private sector activity;
*  Improve public dissemination and debate on economic reformns.
In view of the short timeframe of the proposed Project, the component will support only a
limited set of activities. It is fully anticipated that further capacity building needs in these and in
other areas will have to be addressed in future operations and/or by other donors. In particular,
the European Union is in the process of formulating a Support Program for Public Sector
Management which would address capacity building needs in the Ministries of Finance, Justice,
Health, and Environment, as well as the Central Bank, the National Institute for Statistics and the
- 19-



Customs and Tax Departments. This program is not expected to become effective before
February of 2002, toward the end of this component's timefrarne. Careful coordination with the
European Union will ensure a smooth transition between the two projects.
Description
Learning from lessons of experience in previous capacity building efforts in DRC, the activities
to be financed under this component have been designed to support the key measures to be
implemented by the Government in the context of the of the IMF SMP, as well as the World
Bank TSS. Terms of reference for each activity will be agreed as an integral part of the policy
dialogue in the areas to be supported, so as to ensure synergy. It is envisaged that specific needs
might evolve --even over the short implementation period of the project-- as a consequence of
changing circumstances, and also to ensure donor coordination. Therefore, the component is
specifically designed to be flexible, within the objectives stated above. The decision mechanism
to be put in place to ensure this flexibility is described under Implementation Arrangements
below. The initial set of activities to be financed is as follows:
Improve revenue generating capacity (US$2 million). Support will be provided for capacity
building for the fiscal administration, customs administration and Central Bank. The specific
capacity building needs for these organization is being defined in consultation with IMF
technical assistance missions. The project would finance assistance according to terms of
reference and specifications agreed between the relevant agency and the IMF. This component
will include financing for urgent computer and other equipment needs.
Improve capacity to manage public resources (US$5.75 million).
*  Support will be provided to the Ministry of Finance strengthenpublic resource
management. Initially this would concentrate on supporting technical assistance provided by
the IMF's statistical department to improve government finance statistics by financing urgent
computer and other equipment needs. This may be followed by assistance as defined in the
context of the Public Expenditure Review;
*  A Post Conflict Grant is currently in place to prepare a Post-Conflict Rapid Assessment of
Living Conditions and Infrastructure by (i) taking stock of all existing data, including spatial
and geographic data available; (ii) prepare an information needs assessment and identify
information gaps; (iii) conduct a feasibility study to identify the methodologies and partners
in the field to conduct the data collection in communities in the country; (iv) based on the
needs assessment, prepare a community survey questionnaire, training manuals; and (v)
conduct a field test to finalize the questionnaire and train a core group of key counterparts to
be used as trainers for a nationwide data collection exercise. In follow-up to these
preparatory activities, the proposed Project will finance:
(iii) A community survey based on the previously designed questionnaire to assess
living and infrastructure conditions. This survey will be executed in the entire
country by partners in the field identified and selected during the previous
feasibility study. Specific attention will be given to ensuring that the survey
reflects the specific problems of female-headed households.
- 20 -



(iv)  An analysis of the data in the form of a detailed survey report and a properly
documented electronic data set of the survey results.
* Support will be provided to the Ministry of Plan to develop aframework for donor
coordination and to commence work on public investment planning, two activities that go
hand in hand. The initial objective would be to assist the Government in preparing a priority
recovery program to be presented at the donor conference planned for late 2001, and to set up
capacity for donor coordination in the context of this program. Subsequently, work would
shift to assistance in setting up a framework for public investment planning with the ultimate
objective of developing a three year rolling Public Investment Plan which would incorporate
input from the PRSP process;
* Support will be provided to develop new procurement legislation. The current procurement
legislation dates from 1969, and clearly needs a lot of updating and improvement; Updating
the legislation would be a key first step in the process to strengthen DRC's public
procurement system.
Address key impediments to private sector activity (US$4 million). The current legal and
regulatory environment in DRC leaves much to be desired, translating into huge needs for policy
formulation and legal and regulatory technical assistance. Assistance under this component will
therefore be focused on a narrow set of objectives: (i) to help DRC move to a sound legal
framework for legitimate investment, especially in the key mining sector; (ii) to assist in the
creation of a sound regulatory framework for sectors affecting the overall competitiveness of the
economy. Even these needs can neither be addressed quickly, nor by just one donor organization.
Bank missions have therefore worked closely with key donor representatives in Kinshasa to
ensure coordination and careful prioritization of support. For instance, an agreement has been
reached that USAID will provide technical assistance for reform of the energy sector, in
consultation with Bank experts. The proposed Project will concentrate on those areas where there
is already a fruitful dialogue with the Government and where other donors are not yet active:
Support will be provided to follow up the IDF financed preparation of a new Mining
Law. Activities to be financed include: Capacity building at the Government level to
enforce the Law; this includes: (i) Discussion and promotion of the new Mining Law;
(ii) training of Government officials in the implementation of the new law; (iii) set up
the Mining Cadastre, to ensure the transparent allocation of mining rights; (iv) set up
a Interministerial Committee for the confirmation or denial of the rights of existing
title holders; (v) review of the investment agreements signed under the previous
regimes to assess their rights under the proposed legal framework;
*  Support will be provided for the implementation of the new Investment Code, which
was prepared with FIAS assistance. The dialogue with the Government on the
investment code has been extremely productive, leading to presentation of the new
draft to Parliament within days of return to Kinshasa of the Congolese delegation to
the FIAS workshop. The code calls for setting up a guichet unique for investment
registration, which will be financed from the proposed Project;
*  Support will be provided for urgent improvement of the regulatory framework for
telecommunication. There are seven mobile phone networks in DRC which function
without proper licensing, with spotty interconnection at best. In addition, the mobile
phone companies have built up large arrears to the fixed line company (OPTC) for
international traffic. Bank telecommunications experts will visit Kinshasa in July to
- 21 -



help define terms of reference for international experts to address these problems on
an urgent basis;
* Support will be provided for an assessment of the legal framework and market for
legal services in the commercial law area. The assessment will be focused on the need
to establish an effective system for the adjudication of commercial cases. This will
complement the activities financed by the European Union under the Justice Support
Program, which focuses on rehabilitation of court buildings, as well as capacity
building and awareness raising activities on criminal law and the rule of law in
general.
Improve public dissemination and debate on economic reforms (US$0.25 million).
The Government considers public dissemination and debate on economic reforms vital for the
success and sustainability of its program. At the time of implementation of the foreign exchange
liberalization Government officials appeared widely in the national media to explain the need for
these measures. This seems to have worked well, as public acceptance of the necessity of these
difficult measures is quite high. Nevertheless, it became clear that the impact of the
Government's efforts was limited by the fact that communications were done only in French.
Support will therefore be provided to facilitate communication and debate also in key local
languages, including in Lingala, Chiluba and Swahili.
Justification
The weakness of the Congolese state is a major impediment to DRC's prospects for recovery.
Extremely low revenue generating capacity combined with severely lacking public expenditure
and investment management are at the heart of this problem. The TSS as well as the IMF SMP
are anchored around addressing these problems head on. At the same time, the Government is
committed to changing its role and letting the private sector drive growth. Although this is at best
a medium term objective, it is crucial to set the tone with effective support for the initial steps in
these processes in the short term. In key areas such as mining and telecommunications, this could
pay off relatively quickly. More importantly, however, it will provide the necessary support to
the Government to stay on the path it intends to pursue, rather than falling into old habits which
would put the program at serious risk.
- 22 -



Costs
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND CAPACITY BUILDING                                      000's US$
1. CAPACITY BUILDING FOR MGT OF DONOR ASST                                           9000
a. Implementation of the EERP                                                     3000
Consulting Services                                               2200
Goods                                                               400
Operating Cost                                                      400
Subtotal Implementation of the EERP                                   3000
b. Strengthen implementation capacity in key institutions                         1000
Consulting Services                                                 500
Goods                                                               500
Subtotal Strengthen implementation capacity                           1000
c. Engineering for priority works                                                 5000
Consulting Services                                                5000
Subtotal Engineering for priority works                               5000
Subtotal Capacity Building for Management of Donor Asst                  900
2. Support to Good Governance and Economic Management                                 1200
a. Improve revenue generating capacity                                            2000
Consulting Services                                                 250
Goods                                                              1750
Subtotal Improve revenue generating capacity                          2000
b. Improve capacity to manage public resources                                    5750
Consulting Services                                               4150
Goods                                                              1600
Subtotal Improve capacity to manage public resources                  5750
c. Address key impediments to private sector activity                             4000
Consulting Services                                                3800
GToods                                                              200
Subtotal Address key impediments to private sector activity           4000
d. Improve public dissemination on economic reforms                                 250
Consulting Services                                                 250
Subtotal Improve public dissemination on economic reforms              250
Subtotal Support to Good Governance and Economic Mgt                    12000
Total                                                                   21000
- 23 -



Implementation Arrangements
BCeCo will be responsible for the implementation of this component. Terms of reference for each activity
to be financed will be developed in the context of Bank and/or IMF missions covering the topic
concerned. Subsequently, the General Director of BCeCo will submit these tenns of reference to the
Comite de Pilotage of BCeCo for approval. Once approved by the Comite de Pilotage, all terns of
reference will be subject to no objection by IDA. This procedure will ensure full complementarity
between the activities financed under the project and the Government's program supported by IDA and
the IMF.
A detailed procurement table for this sub component as well as the sub component Support for Good
Govemance is presented below:
Number of Packages Amount Selection Method
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND CAP. BUILDING
1. CAPACITY BUILDING FOR MGT OF DONOR ASST.
a. Implementation of the EERP
Individual Local Consultants                                     18                     350         IC
Procurement Expert                                               1                      100         IC
FMS Firm                                                         1                      150       QCBS
Management Firm                                                  1                     1500       QCBS
Extemal Audit                                                    1                      100        LCS
Office Refurbishment                                             1                      120        LCB
Fumiture and Equipment                                           4                      180         LS
Vehicles                                                         2                      100         LS
Operating Expenses                                                                      400        Other
b. Strengthen impl. capacity in key institutions
Training Program                                                 1                      500       QCBS
Goods                                                            1                      500         ICB
c. Engineering for priority works
Consulting Services                                              5                     5000       QCBS
2. Support to Good Governance and Economic Mgt
a. Improve revenue generating capacity
TA for Customs, Tax, and Central Bank                            3                      250         IC
Goods                                                            3                     1750        ICB
b. Improve capacity to manage public resources
TA to Min. Fin                                                    1                     250        QCBS
Statistical Survey                                               1                     2500       QCBS
TA for PIP                                                        I                    1000        QCBS
Procurement Code                                                  1                     500       QCBS
Goods                                                            2                     1500         ICB
c. Address key impediments to private sector activity
TA for Mining                                                    2                     1600        QCBS
Individual Consultant for Mining                                 4                      400         IC
TA for ANAPI                                                      1                     300        QCBS
TA for Telecom                                                    I                    1000        QCBS
Commercial Law Assesment                                          1                     500       QCBS
Goods                                                             1                     200         ICB
d. Improve public dissemination on economic reforms
Communication Services                                                                  250        Other
- 24 -



Implementation Risks
The implementation of a multi component technical assistance activity in DRC is a risky
undertaking in the current situation in DRC. In recognition of this fact, the component will be
strictly limited to supporting areas where IDA or the IMF have a substantive policy dialogue with
the Government so that it can be assured that the technical assistance provided will support the
overall reforms and are not out of sync with the policy measures taken. Other risks include the
overall implementation risks for the project which are discussed in the general risks section and
which are addressed at the level of the entire Project, in particular with respect to the set-up of
BCeCo.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Progress of this component will be measured as part of the overall policy dialogue between the
Govermment and IDA and the IMF. Bank mission, as well as IMF technical assistance mission will
assess progress with their counterparts on the occasion of every visit. In practice, this would result
in reviews every three months on average. The performance criteria against which this component
would be judged have been or will be established in the reform programs supported by IDA and
the IMF. In addition, the terms of reference for individual activities will include clear deliverables
against which progress could be measured.
- 25 -



ANNEX II
SUPPORT FOR THE NATIONAL ANTI-HIV/AIDS CAMPAIGN
OBJECTIVES
The purpose of this component be to scale up the activities which are currently conducted
to fight AIDS in DRC and which are likely to bring about a rapid and significant reduction in the
incidence of HIV infection and the impact of this epidemic on the well-being of individuals and
communities. Pending the formulation of more comprehensive IDA support for the fight against
HIV/AIDS, the activities financed by this component are intended to be implemented within a
twelve months period.
DESCRIPTION
The component will finance activities in the following areas: (i) social mobilization
activities intended to change sexual behavior; (ii) safety of the blood supply; and (iii) screening
and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases (STD's) and opportunistic infections (01's).
Social Mobilization Activities.
This sub-component is intended to reinforce the ability of communities within the Republic to
equip themselves with a social vaccine against HIV. The grant will finance three types of
activities in the context of this sub-component, i.e.:
* IEC multimedia campaigns encouraging "Abstinence-Fidelity-Contraception". These
campaigns will involve the production of messages by communications professionals,
musicians, painters, film directors, playwrights and other categories of artists. The messages
will be disseminated over the radio, television, signs, flyers and other media. In addition to
modem channels, traditional means of dissemination will also be used, in particular in rural
areas.
* Discussion groups: The grant will also finance the organization of seminars, conferences,
educational talks,, including at the level of religious communities, home visits, and other
means of interpersonal communication to supplement the mass media campaigns and thus
allow the targeting of messages.
* Social marketing of condoms. The grant will finance the purchase, promotion and
distribution of condoms so as to increase the availability and accessibility of these means of
protection, in particular in hotels, barracks, in locations frequented by young people,
prostitutes or workers separated from their spouse.
Safety of the blood supply.
This sub-component is intended to reduce the transmission of HIV through the blood
supply. To this end, it will finance the purchase and distribution of the following equipment and
-26 -



consumables: hematocrit centrifuges, hemolysis tube centrifuges, refrigerated centrifuges for
blood bags, cold storage (blood bank coolers, coolers for reagents, plasma freezers, positive
pressure cold chambers), microscopes, incubators, hematology analyzers and other consumables,
opaline plates, rhesuscopes, blood bags, transfusion kits, boxes of dry tubes, boxes of EDTA
tubes, boxes of capillary tubes, boxes of lances, anti-serum kits, bovine serum albumine flasks,
anti-human flasks, ELISA HIV kits, ELISA HB's, fast HIV test kits, HB fast test kits, RPR kits,
TPHA kits, VHC kits, with Plasmodium. The grant will also finance the purchase of five ELISA
chains for reference hospitals, 4x4 long chassis vehicles, four incinerators, computers.
This support will be preceded and accompanied by training for the personnel who will work with
it. The sub-component will also include organizing activities related to promoting awareness for
donating blood.
Biological diagnostic and early treatment of STD's and 01's.
This sub-component has a two-fold purpose: reducing the incidence of infections which
favor the sexual transmission of HIV, and improving the quality of life of persons living with
HIV. To this end it will include financing the purchase and the distribution of the following
supplies: dyes, sanitary information sheets, antibiotics, tuberculostatics suited to the DOT
strategy and mycostatics, niverapine, ELISA HIV kits, quick HIV test kits. The grant will also
finance the purchase of five ELISA devices for major hospitals which do not have any, as well as
two molecular biology systems and two systems for lymphocyte typing, microscopes.
Monitoring and evaluation.
The goal of this sub-component is to monitor the performance and effects of the various
activities conducted in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the fight against AIDS, in
particular those which will be supported by the grant. To this end, the sub-component will
finance the organization of supervision visits and the performance of operational research
activities.
JUSTIFICATION
In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as in several other African countries, the impact
of AIDS has reached far beyond the responsibilities of the Ministry of Public Health and has
become a problem affecting all of society. The number of newly infected persons on an annual
basis has increased by a factor of 16 between 1990 and 2000. The mapping prepared for 1997
indicates that the number of persons living with HIV increased in several locations within the
Congo. All the facts lead one to perceive an increase in the deterioration of the epidemiological
situation. In Lubumbashi and Matadi, surveys have revealed that between 1997 and 2000, the
number of seropositive pregnant women has doubled. Seroprevalence has gone from 4.80
percent to 8.60 percent in Lubumbashi and from 5.60 percent to 10.00 percent in Matadi. The
situation is worse in Goma where 16 percent of pregnant women were HIV-positive in 2000,
compared to 3.2 percent in 1997.
The Democratic Republic Congo was one of the first countries to become aware of the
seriousness of this epidemic. For more than fifteen years, the government of this country has
fought against the epidemic, which is one of the major priorities of its policies. It has prepared a
- 27 -



strategy which involves all sectors of national life, including the private sector and the civil
sector. Since 1985, several activities have been conducted in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo against AIDS. These areas of intervention cover such activities as information, promoting
the use of condoms, seroprevalence surveys. Various public as well as private entities are
working in the fight against the epidemic in multiple and various contexts. Among NGO's we
can cite the following, excluding private organizations: international NGO's, Not-for-profit
associations, religious organizations, organized communities in civil society. The AIDS crisis
has caused a significant mobilization of civil society. Several organizations of women and young
people have been established in order to fight against AIDS/HIV. The associations, certain of
which are grouped around a collective called FOSI, include associations of women, young
people, people living with HIV. An institutional framework, around which these organizations
are supposed to be organized has existed for fifteen years. Departmental Decree No. 0024/87
regarding the creation of the National Anti-AIDS/HIV Program was published on May 28, 1987.
The national response, which began in 1985, allowed seroprevalence to stabilize at around
5 percent for nearly twelve years. The effects of all these interventions however, was limited by a
lack of resources, both human and financial, allocated to the fight against AIDS/HIV, the lack of
coordination of activities in this fight and the high degree of resistance related to certain cultural
factors. During the past five years, socio-political difficulties, armed conflicts, poverty and
massive movements of populations have contributed to halting anti-HIV activity, including those
which were intended for social mobilization, controlling STD's and the safety of the blood
supply. Activities related to information, education and communication were timidly conducted
at the level of the communities by various NGO's, but their impact on behavior was slight
because these actions did not have sufficient support from the sponsors or a technical framework
from the structures of the National Anti-AIDS/HIV Program. Blood-borne transmission of HIV
continues, given the fact that 50 percent of the units of blood are transfused into patients (75
percent of whom are children under 5 years of age and 15 percent of whom are mothers) without
being subjected to an HIV test. The deterioration in control of STD's, which is explained by a
context where health services have been seriously weakened, favors the sexual transmission of
HIV.
Since 1997, the scope of the epidemic in the Democratic Republic of the Congo has also
been fueled by the fact that one half of the members of the armed forces engaged in the conflict
are reportedly HIV-positive. Socio-economic, cultural and political factors are the causes as well
as the consequences of the seriousness of the impact of AIDS/HIV in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo. In reality we are faced with a vicious circle where children and women are
increasingly affected. In several areas, young women are forced into sexual acts to be protected
and for their own survival, in particular in refugee camps and in the areas surrounding facilities
occupied by armed troops. A large generation of seropositive children and orphans is emerging
following the AIDS/HIV epidemic and violent conflicts which are raging throughout the country.
As of December 31, 2000, the number of AIDS orphans exceeded 688,000.
Although the available information is incomplete, a national consensus has already been
issued regarding the negative impact of AIDS on individuals, families, communities and the
nation. All sectors of national life have been affected. The operation of schools, for example, is
crippled by the morbidity and mortality caused by HIV. So, during academic year 1999-2000,
courses were not given at certain faculties due to a lack of teachers.
- 28 -



COST OF THE COMPONENT
The following table shows the cost of the various activities included in this component:
Total   Domestic funds Foreign currency
Social mobilization activity
1. Civil engineering  50,000       37,500           12,500
2. Equipment   300,000        15,000          285,000
3. Supplies    50,000       37,500           12,500
4. Consultant services   728,000    655,200           72,800
5. Seminars and Training    200,000    190,000           10,000
6. Operating expenses   240,000     240,000               0
7. Unforeseen expenses and price increases    32,000  16,000           16,000
Subtotal  1,600,000    1,191,200          408,800
Safety of the blood supply
1. Civil engineering    200,000   150,000           50,000
2. Equipment   900,000        45,000          855,000
3. Supplies   400,000      300,000          100,000
4. Consultant services   300,000    270,000           30,000
5. Seminars and Training    200,000    190,000           10,000
6. Operating expenses   352,000     352,000               0
7. Unforeseen expenses and price increases    48,000  24,000           24,000
Subtotal  2,400,000     1,331,000        1,069,000
Diagnosis and treatment of STD's and OI's
1. Civil engineering    200,000   150,000           50,000
2. Equipment   500,000        25,000          475,000
3. Supplies  1,406,000    1,054,500         351,500
4. Consultant services   300,000    270,000           30,000
5. Seminars and Training    250,000   237,500            12,500
6. Operating expenses   480,000     480,000               0
7. Unforeseen expenses and price increases    64,000  32,000           32,000
Subtotal  3,200,000    2,249,000          951,000
Coordination, monitoring and evaluation
1. Civil engineering     0              0                0
2. Equipment   250,000        12,500          237,500
3. Supplies    50,000       37,500           12,500
4. Consultant services   136,000    122,400           13,600
5. Seminars and Training  84,000       79,800            4,200
6. Operating expenses   264,000     264,000                0
7. Unforeseen expenses and price increases    16,000   8,000            8,000
Subtotal   800,000       524,200          275,800
Grand Total                            8,000,000      5,295,400        2,704,600
- 29 -



IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
Given the need to correctly conduct these activities within a very short time frame, it has
been determined necessary to subcontract services with entities which can prove at least five
years of experience in the fields in question. Each of the entities identified will sign a services
contract with BCeCo. This agreement will include the methods and the schedule proposed to
implement these activities in a manner acceptable to IDA. The documents must be validated by
the National Anti-AIDS/HIV Program before being forwarded to IDA for approval. After
examination of the situation on-site, it was proposed that responsibility for the implementation of
the various activities of the AIDS component be divided as follows: Population Services
International (PSI) for the "Social Mobilization sub-component; The German Agency for
Technical Cooperation (GTZ) for the "Blood Supply" sub-component, and Fonds Medical
Tropical (FOMETRO) for the "Early Diagnosis and Treatment of STD's and OI's" sub-
component. Monitoring and evaluation will be provided directly by BCeCo in close cooperation
with the National Anti-AIDS/HIV Program.
TIMETABLE
Provisional plans for awarding contracts for the various activities which will be conducted
against HIV in the context of this grant shall be presented to BECECO and IDA by the various
subcontractors by July 15 2001. These plans must include the completion of all activities by
April of 2002.
RISKS
The National Anti-AIDS/HIV Program which is responsible for coordinating activities in
the fight against AIDS is in the first phases of reestablishing its capacity. The various entities,
whether public or private, which participate in the fight against the epidemic in the field and
which will benefit from support under this grant, operate in multiple and diverse contexts. Their
administrative capacities are limited by insufficient human and material resources. The number
of competent organizations that work outside of Kinshasa is rather low. All these factors poses
risks to the implementation of this component. These risks will be mitigated by the following
measures:
* Implementation bye experienced and qualified subcontractors;
*  Support for the National Anti-AIDS/HIV Program to allow it to better perform its
responsibilities in terms of coordination, monitoring and evaluation of anti-HIV activities.
This support shall primarily be rendered by GTZ;
* Provision of technical assistance for entities responsible for implementing activities financed
by the grant, so as to enable them to meet the administrative and technical requirements for
implementation of the component;
- 30 -



MONITORING AND EVALUATION
The purpose of this component is to urgently intensify actions which are currently being
conducted in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and which are likely to bring about a rapid
and significant reduction in the incidence of HIV infection and the impact of this epidemic on the
well-being of individuals and communities. For this reason, the beginning and ending dates of
the grant will be considered during the determination of performance indicators. The
intensification of actions in this battle will be measured by the increase, in absolute numbers or
as percentages, in the volume of activities. The following table shows a few of the indicators
which will be used in the context of the grant.
Objective/Indicator                           Value
Beginning      End
Strengthen the capacity of communities to provide a social
vaccine against AIDS
Percentage of 20 to 35 year-olds who are protected against AIDS  25       40
by abstinence, fidelity or the use of condoms
Average number of condoms sold per day (in thousands)        2,0          3,5
Reduce HIV transmission by securing the blood supply
Percentage of units of quality blood transfused               60          85
Number of blood bags distributed                            3,000        5,000
Number of voluntary donors whose loyalty has been secured    500         2,000
Percentage of volunteers among blood donors                   25          40
Number of persons trained in transfusion safety               0           250
Reduce the incidence of STD's
Percentage of cases of STD's correctly managed                25          40
Percentage of health training [sessions] capable of correctly  33         60
managing STD's
Ensure correct handling of Opportunistic Infections
Number of structures providing management in accordance with  5            12
the standards of the Ministry of Public Health (MSP)
Number of days of understock during the previous six months   60           7
(Availability of medication)                                          _
Number of illnesses managed in accordance with the standards of  300      900
the Ministry of Public Health
Number of persons who accessed diagnostic services          2,000        5,000
- 31 -



ANNEX HII
COMMUNITY DRIVEN DEVELOPMENT PILOT FUND
Objectives
The objective of this component is to pilot community driven implementation solutions that will
yield a physical impact in rural areas through the reconstruction and rehabilitation of damaged
and destroyed local infrastructure and basic services. If such implementation arrangements were
successful, they could be replicated on a lager scale in a future project.
Description
The component will finance the establishment of a pilot fund for community driven development
activities in rural areas. In view of the uncertain Congolese environment and the fact that more
donor financed projects are expected to start in the coming year, the menu of eligible
infrastructure/services is left as flexible as possible. Such menu will include, but not be limited,
to the reconstruction and rehabilitation of rural roads, bridges, schools, hospitals, and sanitation
and water management systems.
The component is being contracted to NGOs through services contracts, as these have been the
only effective providers of services to the population for the past thirty years. However, to
support the government effort in rebuilding a state and an administration, it is crucial the NGOs
work with the nascent local authorities. Therefore preference will be given to NGOs with a track
record of effective cooperation with local authorities. When implementing the programs to be
contracted under the services contracts, the NGOs will be required to work in cooperation with
local authorities. They will also be required to devise implementation solutions that lead to a
sustainable mechanism of maintenance (including financing) of the infrastructure/service rebuilt.
Justification
Given the poor state of the infrastructures and basic services, and the fact that most rural
communities are cut off from the rest of the territory, the rehabilitation of small
infrastructures/basic services in remote communities is crucial to allow the return to a normal life
and the restart of economic activities. In addition, given the high visibility and impact of such
rehabilitation in the communities benefiting from the pilot, the component will show to the
population that peace and stability can have a measurable positive impact on their lives. In
addition, the pilot nature of the project will set the stage for a much larger program of
community driven development in the near future.
Costs
The cost of the component will be US$3 million, all for services to be rendered under services
contracts.
- 32 -



Implementation Arrangements
BCeCo will be responsible for the implementation of this component by entering into services
contracts with qualified NGOs or contractors who would implement an agreed program of
community driven development projects in rural areas.
Services contracts can only entered into with NGOs who have legal personality in Congo or
international NGOs who are properly registered as having permission to work in Congo. In
addition, these NGOs would need to have audited financial statements. Due to constraints in the
legal environment in Congo, there are very few local NGOs legal personality and audited
financial statement. International NGOs on the other hand have been concentrating largely on
relief work, and tend to be concentrated on urban areas. Therefore, the component will be
structured in two phases. In the first phase, a $0.5M contract will be signed with FOLECO, a
Congolese NGOs with a track record of seventeen years of success in community driven
development projects in rural areas. FOLECO has successfully managed donor resources before
and meets the criteria for entering into a services contract.
Two months before the completion of the first phase, an in-depth evaluation of the activities
carried out by FOLECO will be carried out by the Bank. In addition, Bank missions will work
with the Government on simplification of registration procedures for NGOs. In addition, Bank
missions will work with NGOs to increase the number of NGOs who could qualify in the second
phase of the project.
In the second phase, US$2.5M will be tendered out to qualified local and international NGOs
already operating in Congo; FOLECO will be allowed to participate in the tender. The results of
the evaluation of the activities of the first phase will form the basis for the menu of activities to
be financed under the second phase and for the selection criteria of the NGOs.
Action Plan
Activity                                       Date
Finalization of contract with FOLECO           August 1, 2001
Start of implementation for the first phase    August 15, 2001
Assessment of FOLECO activity under first phase  November 30, 2001
Launch of tender amongst NGOs for second phase  January 15, 2002
Selection of NGOs contracted in second phase   February 28, 2002
Start of implementation for the second phase   March 31, 2002
Implementation Risks
The critical risks of the proposed implementation arrangement are the following:
* Given the uncertain environment and the scarcity of qualified NGOs or contractors in this
area, this component presents a high risk. The phasing of the project is intended to
- 33 -



mitigate this risk, as this allows the selection of only one NGO with a track record of
success. In addition, IDA will closely monitor the component through its field office as
well as through supervision missions; and FOLECO will be required to submit monthly
reports, instead of tri-monthly reports.
The implementation arrangements of the second phase present the risk that there might
still not be a sufficient number of qualified NGOs or contractors that could participate in
the tender. To mitigate this risk, IDA will initiate a dialogue with the Minister of Justice
to amend the existing legislation on NGOs in order to streamline and simplify the
procedure through which NGOs acquire legal personality. Such a legislative change
should increase the number of local NGOs that could participate in the competition.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Close monitoring will be ensured by: reports to be submitted by the partner NGOs, World Bank
supervision missions; and in-depth assessment of activities performed under the first phase. The
partner NGO for the first phase will submit an inception report with detailed work plan and a
detailed explanation of the mechanisms used to cooperate with the local communities, monthly
reports and a final report on the activities carried out. The partner NGOs for the second phase
will submit an inception report with a detailed work plan, tri-monthly reports and a final report
on the activities carried out. Within the first six months of implementation of the first phase, an
in-depth qualitative and quantitative evaluation for all the regions of activity will be completed.
The findings of the evaluation will form the basis for the activities to be carried out under the
second phase and for the selection criteria of the NGOs involved. Evaluation indicators for the
first phase should assess the achievement of both objectives described above. When assessing the
achievement of the first objective, particular attention will be paid to sustainability of
maintenance mechanisms for the infrastructure/services financed and to the quality of the
partnership between community groups and local authorities. The performance indicator for
achievement of the second objective will be the successful implementation of a tender for the
second phase.
- 34 -



ANNEX IV
INFRASTRUCTURE
Objectives
In accordance with the overall objectives of the EERP, activities in the infrastructure sector have
two objectives:
*: to meet urgent needs: The grant will finance work on crucial points on RN1 between
Kinshasa and Matadi so as to make the highway passable in all seasons pending its
rehabilitation.
*: to strengthen local capacity to manage external aid. Firstly, in the short term, the
grant will support strengthening of the Office des Routes (Highways Authority, ODR)
for preparation and monitoring of works on RNI financed by the grant. Secondly, in
the medium term, the grant will support capacity-building in Congolese institutions in
the sector to prepare a priority investment program, to maintain infrastructures, and to
provide a regulatory and institutional framework to guarantee sustainable
development of the sector.
Description
Work on RN]
The work is designed to optimize use of the resources available, with due regard to budgetary
constraints, in order to ensure that users receive an acceptable quality of service and that the
highway is passable in all seasons at least through 2002. Six types of works have been identified:
*. Reinforcement of the most damaged paved sections. Work will be done on the
sections between kilometer 132 and 186 and between kilometer 231 and 257. It will
consist of repairs to seriously damaged sections, which make the road impassable
during the rainy season. The total length of highway to be worked on is estimated at
20 kilometers. The work will be executed at a level which will permit it to be
integrated into the future rehabilitation of the entire highway.
* Ptching on less damaged paved sections.
* Backfilling on about 50% of the road sections from Km 204 to230 and from Km 257
to 292.
* Levelling with filling between km1 86 and 204 and on about 50 percent of the sections
from km 204 to 230 and from km 257 to 292.
*: Repair of structures
*. Cleaning of ditches and maintenance of shoulders on the entire highway.
- 35 -



Capacity building
The first group of activities will involve preparation, execution and monitoring of works on
RNI: An international consultant will be recruited to validate tender documents. A road safety
audit will be conducted to identify the actions needed (horizontal and vertical signs, town and
village crossings, etc.) to limit the increase in traffic accident caused by the highway
improvements. An environmental impact study will be conducted to identify actions to limit
negative impact for inclusion in works contracts. An international consulting firm will be
recruited to supervise the execution of works. The component will cover purchase of the vehicles
needed to enable the ODR to supervise the works. Travel expenses will be paid from the
government budget. A technical audit of the execution of works will be performed upon their
conclusion.
The second group of activities will consist of the preparation of the first tranche of a priority
investment and maintenance program in the sector, which could possibly receive IDA financing
in the event of a resumption of normal lending to the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
3 support for the formulation of a road maintenance strategy (network surveys,
preparation of a program of road works optimizing resource utilization within the
limits of the budgetary constraints, vehicles and computers for the ODR);
*:. feasibility studies, detailed design and preparation of tender documents,
environmental impact study of periodic maintenance and roads rehabilitation included
in the first tranche of the road works program;
diagnostic survey of ports and preparation of tender documents for priority
infrastructure works;
* study on railway rehabilitation and anti-erosion measures (SNCC);
-: study of telecommunications modemization for management of rail traffic (SNCC);
- study on rehabilitation of the Kinshasa-Matadi railway.
The studies concerning SNCC focus on priority activities that will enable the railway
infrastructure - the backbone for trade between the eight provinces served by SNCC - to remain
operational. Transport of mining products accounted for only 16 percent of traffic units in 2000.
General goods transport now accounts for about 54 percent and food transport 12 percent.
Pending restoration of service on the road network, which will take time and be costly,
maintenance of the railway infrastructure represents a satisfactory alternative for achieving a
rapid result.
The third group of activities consists of setting up a sustainable framework for the development
of transport and public infrastructure sectors.
* support for the creation of a sustainable mechanism for financing of road
maintenance (seminar on financing issues of road maintenance, study tour to
Cameroon, drafting of legal texts for the establishment of a Road Fund).
* study of operational problems and regulatory barriers in the transport sector.
- 36 -



Justification
Analysis of past traffic on the road shows the impact of the recent economic crisis and the
potential of RN1 in the event of an economic recovery. Traffic surveys conducted between June
1999 and March 2000 at the Kasangulu station located between Kinshasa and Matadi show a
marked deterioration, with traffic amounting to about 250 vehicles a day or one third of the 1998
figure and one fifth of the 1977 figure. There were only 50 vehicles transporting foodstuffs
compared with 230 in 1998 (half of the total number of pick-up trucks, small trucks and large
trucks). Obviously, this is severely curtailing the provision of food supplies to the city of
Kinshasa.
These surveys revealed the following sources of food supplies to Kinshasa:
Bandundu  Bas-Congo   Eguateur  Kasai  Onatra   Total
River     43%                     7%      5%      2%       57%
Road      18%         22%                                  40%
Rail  |               2%                 _ l               2%
Total     61%         24%         7%      5%      2%      100%
Source: Rehabilitation support project. Bescoplan/Gret. European Commission
Interruption of service on RN1 would have a dramatic impact on food availability in the capital.
Bas-Congo accounts for 24 percent of supplies to Kinshasa. Rail transport is no longer
significant for foodstuffs and would not offset an interruption in supplies by road. Past
interruptions in traffic on the road have led to a doubling of food prices in Kinshasa for the
period of interruption. Even under normal circumstances, the cost of transport from Bas-Congo
to Kinshasa represents around 40 percent of the cost of goods on the Kinshasa market.
- 37 -



Environmental and social impact
In view of their nature, the road works are not expected to have a negative impact on the
environment. There would be no change in the horizontal alignment or cross-section of the
highway. Contracts will include clauses on restoration of the borrowing pits opened for the
works. Two borrowing pits have already been opened for the works financed by the European
Union and will be used for the proposed works. Since a full rehabilitation of the road is
envisaged in the foreseeable future, these borrow pits will remain open for these future works.
The contracts will include clauses concerning environmental protection at the contractors base
camps (waste products from vehicle maintenance, sanitation facilities, etc.).
The road improvement will increase the risk of traffic accidents, particularly on the asphalted
section, because of faster driving speeds and the twisting longitudinal alignment of the highway,
which crosses several valleys. A large increase in traffic is also expected both because of the
improved state of the road and because of the economic upswing. A road safety audit will be
conducted and appropriate measures will be financed under the grant.
Costs
The following table shows the cost of the various activities:
Local        Foreign             Total
______________________________  currency       currency
Works                             1,080         7,620            8,700
Consultancy services              0,036         3,904            3,940
Equipment                         0,000         0,353            0,353
Training and seminars             0,040         0,100            0,140
Contingencies                     0,194          1,372           1,566
Total                             1,350         13,350          14,700
-38 -



Implementation arrangements
Works on RNl
Contract award procedures
All procurement and supervision of this component will be implemented by BCeCo. The
Highways Agency (ODR) will be responsible for the technical survey and preparation of the
tender documents. The ODR will transmit to IDA a document describing the methodology
proposed for the detailed design of the works. The bidding documents will be validated by an
international consultant before being transmitted to IDA for no-objection. This consultant will be
selected following the selection procedure for individual consultants.
In view of the relatively small value of the works and their specific nature (small sections to be
rehabilitated measuring from 10 meters to 1 kilometer over a stretch of 140 kilometers), it is
unlikely that contractors outside the Democratic Republic of Congo would be interested. Since
the goal is to have the works completed quickly so that the road will become passable as soon as
possible, the works will be divided into lots consisting of surface works (reinforcement of the
most deteriorated paved sections and patching, plus refilling and leveling of unpaved sections)
and structures works. Because very few road works have been executed in recent years, which
has had a negative impact on the development of local public works contractors, and because of
the uncertainty regarding these contractors capacity, there will be a prequalification process to
identify contractors and break down the works into appropriately sized lots. The ODR will
prepare the prequalification package according to IDA standard documents. The package will be
transmitted to IDA for no-objection before launching the prequalification.
Management of works contracts
An international engineering firm will be recruited according to IDA procurement procedures,
for works supervision. In addition to being responsible for technical and geotechnical monitoring
of the execution of works, the consultant will be in charge of scheduling execution of the various
contracts and coordination among contractors.
- 39 -



Detailed Procurement Arrangements
The following table shows the contract award procedures which will be used for the activities to
be financed under this component:
Local     Foreign   Total     Contract award
currency  currency            procedures
Works
Reinforcement of paved sections                   0.60       5.40       6.0  ICB
Patching on paved sections                        0.15       1.35       1.5
Refilling of unpaved sections                     0.21       0.49       0.7
Grading of unpaved sections                       0.06      0.14        0.2
Structures                                        0.06      0.24        0.3
Subtotal                                          1.08       7.62       8.7
Consultant services
Environmental impact of work on RNI              0.003                0.003  SS
Supervision of work on RN 1                                0.360      0.360  QCBS
Support to Small/Medium Sized contract                     0.112      0.112  IC
Road eng. for preparation of Ist year program              0.025      0.025  SS
Transport econ. for development of Ist year program        0.025      0.025  SS
Feasibility, design and prep. of RFP documentation          1.000     1.000  QCBS
Environmental impact study for first year road work         0.032     0.032  IC
Local attorney (Roadway funds study)             0.003                0.003  IC
Transport economist (Roadway funds study)                   0.025     0.025  IC
Rehab. Study and anti-erosion measures (SNCC)               0.300     0.300  QCBS
Study of the modernization of telecom. (SNCC)              0.100      0.100  QCBS
Study of the rehabilitation of maritime ports               1.000     1.000  QCBS
Study of the rehab. Of the Kinshasa-Matadi railway         0.800      0.800  QCBS
Study of problems with the transportation sector           0.025      0.025  IC
Expert evaluation of road maintenance equipment            0.100      0.100  IC
Support to road maintenance teams' self-sufficiency  0.030  0.000     0.030  LCS
Subtotal                                         0.036      3.904     3.940  QCBS
Equipment
Vehicles for summary inspections                            0.189     0.189  ICB
Computers                                                  0.050      0.050  NS
Telecommunications                                          0.014     0.014  NS
Technical inspection of the work                            0.100     0.100  IS
Subtotal                                         0.000      0.353     0.353
Training and seminars                            0.040      0.100     0.140
Contingencies (Price: 3%, physical: 15%)         0.194      1.3372    1.566 _
Total                                              1.35     13.35     14.70
Performance indicators
Since the project goal is to meet urgent needs, the starting and end dates for the work will be
performance indicators to evaluate whether this goal has been met. Subject to changes in
procedures for awarding contracts and in the breakdown into lots, these dates will be 15
December 2001 and 28 February 2002 respectively.
A second goal is to reduce transport costs and make the highway passable in all seasons. The
expected outcome is an increase in agricultural output in Bas-Congo and a price reduction on
Kinshasa markets. Food prices and the supply situation from Bas-Congo will be monitored over
- 40 -



the period of execution of the project. However, no specific value has been assigned to these
indicators because there are too many variables involved in price setting and in output decisions
taken by producers.
Time Table
A detailed action plan for the award of contracts for works on RN1 has been prepared. This plan
provides for execution of works during the short dry season between the beginning of December
2001 and the end of February 2002. However, this schedule still remains to be confirmed in light
of the final decision to be taken with regard to breakdown into lots and use of pre-qualification.
Risks
Because there have been few road works in recent years, many local civil works contractors have
stopped gathering experience. The precarious economic situation is also complicating these
contractors financial situation. The lack of public works equipment represents an additional
constraint to the performance of local enterprises. The project for rehabilitation of RN1 financed
by the European Union has shown that this is a real risk, since one enterprise was unable to
perform its contract and had to transfer it to a better equipped and better organized enterprise.
The following measures will be taken to minimize this risk:
*. prequalification of enterprises before invitations to bid are issued. This procedure
will ensure that enterprises' capacities are better known and that lots are sized to take
account of this capacity, while ensuring a reasonable level of competition.
Prequalification will ensure the availability and suitability of equipment and
workers.
* support to enterprises during performance of works contracts. This support will be
given for the management and organization of work sites.
Because only a few public works enterprises have remained active in the country in recent years,
there is a risk of collusion and inadequate competition. Prequalification will make it possible to
define lots in such a manner as to reduce this risk. If prices were nevertheless considerably
higher than those usually charged in the region, the Bank could decide not to finance the
contracts and to reallocate the resources to other activities.
Because the road is in very bad condition, it will require complete rehabilitation. There is
therefore a risk that the work to be done would be of only temporary advantage and would not be
useful for the road rehabilitation. In order to minimize this risk, the works will be completed at
the level where the future rehabilitation will start. This way, the rehabilitation should therefore
not duplicate works carried out under the grant, thus confirming the usefulness of the
expenditure.
- 41



ANNEX V
DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
1.  The US$50 million Emergency Early Recovery (EERP) IDA Grant for DRC will be
managed by BCeCo (Bureau Central de Coordination) located at the Ministry of Finance. Upon
grant signing, BCeCo will open a Special Account, which will be operated by the coordinating
unit's Financial Director. The Financial Director will be accountable for all project payments to
beneficiaries as well as for the submission of monthly replenishment applications to IDA. Within
two years of grant signing and before the closing date lapses, the financial director will justify
the Special account initial advance in full or proceed with a timely refund to IDA of any unused
outstanding balance.
Special Account
2.  The Special Account will be opened in US dollars in a commercial bank acceptable to
IDA. At this time, only two banks meet IDA's eligibility criteria and the borrower will make its
choice based on best terms offered by either bank. Funds will be maintained in the US dollar
account of the commercial bank i.e. Citibank, New York or Banker's Trust, New York for
Stanbic. Due to the high risk environment, both banks will maintain US dollar liquidity levels in
DRC only to meet timely local payments based on the anticipated needs for the project. The
DRC currency (Congolese Franc) was liberalized on May 26, 2001 and local contracts can now
legally be signed in US dollars and accounts opened by DRC residents in US dollars. In
consultation with its headquarters in Johannesburg, Stanbic agreed to provide IDA with a blanket
comfort letter, while Citibank would issue a comfort letter to IDA for the project specifically,
with validity limited to the duration of the IDA grant.
3.  Due to its fragile banking system, DRC is currently a cash environment, where
beneficiaries including contractors, NGOs, Associations and bilaterals hold mainly liquid funds.
Large bank withdrawals are requested only as needed and to effect immediate payments to
providers of goods and services. Currently, about 80% of the country's money supply bypasses
the banking channels. Neither one of the commercial banks eligible to hold SA funds has
branches in the interior of the country and most payments to beneficiaries outside the capital city
of Kinshasa would need to be routed through branches of UBC or Banque Belgolaise causing
substantial delays. Most NGOs rely on their branches in the capital city of Kinshasa to withdraw
funds in cash and ensure themselves that the necessary payments are made all over the territory.
4.  The Special Account authorized allocation will be in an amount of US$4 million. Upon
grant effectiveness, IDA will deposit the initial amount of US$2 million into the Special Account
representing fifty percent of the authorized allocation. The remaining balance of US$2 million
will be made available when the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the credit account plus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$15 million. The Special Account will be used for all
- 42 -



payments inferior to twenty percent of the authorized allocation and replenishment applications
will be submitted monthly. Further deposits by IDA into the Special Account will be made
against withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documents.
5.   Once the coordinating unit has established a track record of fiduciary discipline as
evidenced in part by BCeCo's monthly or bi-monthly submission of adequate replenishment
applications to IDA and satisfactory audits, the borrower may submit a request for an
amendment of the Grant agreement in order to increase the authorized Special Account
allocation to US$7 million. Upon submission of the request, funds disbursed through the Special
Account will need to show a minimum average consumption rate of US$1.8 million per month
and the borrower will need to submit a cash forecast covering a six months' period of projected
expenditures together with the amendment request. The initial allocation and subsequent increase
have been set to exclude large direct payments under civil works contracts for the road
component, and the services contracts for the AIDS and CDD components. BCeCo's strong
financial management capacity as well as the size of the Special Account and other selected
procedural arrangements are expected to allow for a full absorption of IDA grant funds within
the two year implementation period.
6.   Financial Management and Audit Requirements. In view of the risks posed by the
environment in DRC, all project accounts will be subject to six monthly audits by external
auditors acceptable to IDA. Services contracts for the CDD and HIV/AIDS sub components will
include clear financial reporting requirements acceptable to IDA. Financial management
technical assistance will be provided by reputable firms during the entire project period: in the
initial period by one of the big five auditing firms represented in Kinshasa, and after that by the
management firm. The appointment of an external auditor, as well the (different) audit firm who
will provide technical assistance would be conditions of effectiveness of the grant.
Flow of Funds:
7.   To maximize efficient and safe use of IDA grant funds, most payments will be made under
large contracts signed by BCeCo with: (i) three main local civil work contractors for the roads
component, (ii) donors with a track implementation record in specialized services for the AIDS
component (i.e. PSI and GTZ); and (iii) selected NGOs active in rural areas (i.e. FOLECO based
on pre-established eligibility criteria (Community Driven Development component). Given the
high fiduciary risk, BCeCo will only finance contracts signed with entities fully knowledgeable
of the environment and with proven capacity to produce results in difficult implementation
environments. Payments are expected to facilitate efficient and prompt project implementation,
under ring-fenced financial arrangements focused on meeting priority emergency needs.
Financial capacity of the Ministry will gradually be built in parallel to project implementation, so
as not to disrupt, thwart or delay priority implementation needs. The Government of DRC fully
endorses this approach.
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs):
8.   Disbursements for all expenditures will be made against full documentation, except for
items of expenditures under contracts for: (a) civil works in an amount inferior to US$250,000
equivalent; (b) consulting firms in an amount inferior to US$1 00,000, (d) individual consultants
- 43 -



and training in an amount inferior to US$50,000; and (e) operating costs, which would be
claimed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). All supporting documentation for
SOEs would be retained at BCeCo and readily accessible for review by IDA supervision
missions and external auditors. Contracts will be reviewed and approved by BCeCo, while
service contracts in an amount above US$250,000 will also require approval of the Comite de
Pilotage.
9.  Withdrawal applications will be signed by the Director of Treasury or an alternate, as
designated by the Minister of Finance. Such person will not be a member of the Comite de
Pilotage. A streamlined system of approval and signature with adequate internal controls
arrangements was endorsed by the government at negotiations. The arrangements described
above were agreed to at negotiations and will be reflected in the Procedures Manual for the
Project.
- 44 -



Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, the
allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated            % of
Expenditures
Categorv                   Million US$         to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works                      $10.3         100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(2)  Goods                             $5.2         100% of foreign
expenditures
80% of local
expenditures
(3)  Consultants'                     $20.0         100%
services and audits
(4)  Service contracts                $11.0         100%
(goods, works, services)
(5)  Operating costs                   $0.5         100%
(6)  Unallocated                       $3.0
TOTAL                        $50.0
- 45 -



ANNEX VI
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
The Grant would finance the following:
(a) works consisting of: (i) office refurbishment for the institutional strengthening and capacity
building component; (ii) priority rehabilitation of the road Kinshasa-Matadi; and (iii) office
refurbishment for BCeCo;
(b) goods consisting of: office supplies and equipment including computers, and vehicles;
(c) consulting services consisting of: (i) works construction engineering supervision; (ii)
technical assistance including studies and short-term specialists; (iii) staffing of BCeCo; and
(v) training (seminars, workshops, on- the-job training);
(d) works, goods and services carried out under services contracts consisting of (i) local
infrastructure and social services delivery projects under the CDD component; and (ii) social
awareness programs, programs to improve blood transfusion security and treatment of
sexually transmitted diseases and opportunistic infections in the HIV/AIDS component.
The procurement arrangements and the estimated costs for the project components to be funded
by IDA are shown in Table A. The Government contribution would consist of: (i) exempting all
contracts from all taxes and duties (including custom duties); and (ii) financing final design and
bidding documents for the priority rehabilitation works of the road Kinshasa-Matadi, which are
estimated at US$400,000 on a commercial basis.
Procurement under the IDA Grant would be carried out in accordance with the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and Credits" (January 1995, revised in January and August
1996 and September 1997) and "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999). The
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) would be used for all procurement under
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and, with modifications acceptable to IDA, for National
Competitive Bidding (NCB). The "Bank's Standard Request for Proposals: Selection of
Consultants (April 1998) would be used for all consulting services selected through international
competition.
Civil Works:
Contracts exceeding an estimated value of US$200,000 equivalent would be procured using ICB
procedures and documents, as described in the above mentioned << Guidelines for Procurement
- 46 -



under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits >>. The unique contract included in this category is the
contract for the priority rehabilitation of the road Kinshasa-Matadi, for which the bid notice
advertisement on <(Development Business >> is mandatory.
Contracts below an estimated value of US$200,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of
US$3,150,000 equivalent, would be procured using: (i) advertisement on national newspapers;
(ii) posting of procurement noticess in public places; (iii) direct invitations to submit bids; (iv)
simplified bidding documents and evaluation procedures, as agreed upon with IDA; (v) public
bid opening; and (vi) award to the lowest qualified bidder (contractor or NGO).
All works shall be supervised by competent consulting engineering firms or individual
consulting engineers (the choice depends on the amount of works to be supervised). The
appointment of the supervising engineering firm or individual engineer before the works' start is
mandatory.
Goods:
Contract packages valued above US$500,000 would be procured using ICB procedures and
documents and advertisements in "Development Business" and at least two national newspapers.
Goods contracts at estimated contract values below US$500,000, up to an aggregate amount of
US$1,200,000 equivalent would be procured using NCB procedures and documents and
advertisement in at least two national newspapers.
Goods contracts at estimated contract values below US$200,000, up to an aggregate amount of
US$1,200,000 equivalent would be procured using IS procedures, using simplified documents
and procedures for soliciting, receiving, and evaluating competitive quotations from a minimum
of three suppliers.
Goods contacts at estimated contract values below US$100,000, up to an aggregate amount of
US$300,000 equivalent, would be procured using NS procedures, using simplified documents
and procedures for soliciting, receiving, and evaluating competitive quotations from a minimum
of three suppliers.
Consulting Services:
For consulting services above an estimated contract value above US$100,000 equivalent, the
selection method would be Quality and Cost-Based (QCBS). For consultancies below this
threshold, the selection would follow the Quality-Based (QBS) or Single Source (SS) methods,
depending on the nature of the assignment. All individual consulting assignments would be
quality based only. The IDA clearance of terms of reference and single source selections is
mandatory.
Works, goods and services to be carried out under Services Contracts:
One contract for the first phase of the CDD component for an amount of US$500,000 equivalent
would be awarded to FOLECO (an NGO having an impressive record of several community
- 47 -



works). This sole source procurement method is justified by: (i) the urgent need to start several
works in rural areas immediately after Grant effectiveness; and (ii) the limited aggregate contract
amount. The contract with FOLECO will be subject to IDA's clearance.
Three contracts with an aggregate value of US$8 million equivalent for the HIV/AIDS
component would be awarded to GTZ (blood transfusion), PSI (social awareness campaigns) and
FOMETRO (treatment of sexually transmitted diseases and opportunistic infections). Each of
these organizations has a track record of at least five years of performance in their respective
area in DRC. This sole source procurement method is justified by (i) the urgent need to scale up
the fight against HIV/AIDS; and (ii) the strong track record and sound implementation
procedures of these organizations. All three contracts will be subject to IDA's clearance.
For the second phase of the CDD component, contracts at an estimated value of US$500,000
each, with an aggregate value of up to US$ 2.5 million will be awarded on the basis of quality
based selection. Each contract will be subject to IDA's clearance.
Retroactive Financing:
Bridge financing of expenses concerning the start of BCeCo's activities (office equipment, office
refurbishment and consultants fees) from the ongoing Canadian Trust Fund may be needed prior
to the effectiveness of the IDA Grant. These payments, up to an aggregate amount of
US$500,000 equivalent would be subject to retroactive financing, provided that the procurement
methods adopted for all expenses are acceptable to IDA.
Prior and Post Review:
All contracts awarded through ICB procedures, contracts above US$200,000 each awarded
through NCB procedures and consulting services contracts (above US$100,000 for firms and
above US$50,000 for individual consultants) would be subject to prior review by IDA. The prior
review process would also cover the first three works and goods contracts, irrespective of the
amount. All other contracts would be subject to post-review on a random basis during
supervision missions and procurement audits.
Procurement Responsibility:
The procurement responsibility would be entrusted to the procurement specialist of the
management consulting firm to be recruited, who shall be posted within BCeCo and work in
close collaboration with the Technical Manager of BceCo, so that the required technology
transfer can be achieved. This responsibility would be shifted to the Technical Manager of
BCeCo when this Manager will possess all the skills required to assume this responsibility: this
decision would be subject to the IDA clearance. Given the time required to recruit the
management consulting firm and the need of starting the project activities immediately after
Grant effectiveness, an individual procurement specialist shall be recruited for about six months
and assume the procurement responsibility until the procurement specialist of the management
consulting firm is on the spot. It is foreseen that this latter specialist would assume this
responsibility for one year.
- 48 -



During supervision, the IDA staff would continue to devote particular attention to ensuring
compliance with IDA procurement policies and procedures, involving IDA procurement
specialists in this respect. IDA would arrange for training of the BCeCo staff - in particular the
Technical Manager - to become familiar with IDA procurement guidelines and procedures as
part of its supervision activities.
- 49 -



Table A: Amounts and Methods of Procurement: US$ million
(amounts include contingencies)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB        NCB        IS       Other       Total Cost
1. Works
(a) Institutional Strenght. &
Capacity Building      -           0.2       -         -            0.2
(b) Infrastructure       10.0          -                               10.0
(c) BCeCo                  -          0.1       -          -           0.1
2. Goods (incl. vehicles)
(a) Institutional Strenght. &
Capacity Building      4.1        0.1        -          -          4.2
(b) Infrastructure         -          0.2       0.3        0.1 (NS)    0.6
(c) BCeCo                 -           0.2      0.1         0.1 (NS)    0.4
3. Consulting Services
(incl. TA & training)
(a) Institutional Strenght. &
Capacity Building       -          -         -         16.6        16.6
(b) Infrastructure         -           -        -          4.1         4.1
(e) BCeCo                  -           -        -          2.8         2.8
4. Services Contracts
(Works, Goods, Services)
(a) CDD st phase           -            -        -         0.5 (SS)    0.5
(b) CDD 2nd phase          -                               2.5 (QBS)  2.5
(c) HIV/AIDS               -            -        -          8.0 (SS)    8.0
Totals                   16.1         4.25      1.2        28.45       50.0
Legend:
ICB: International Competitive Bidding; NCB: National Competitive Bidding; IS: International
Shopping; NS: National Shopping; SS: Sole Source
Note: (i) the IDA Grant would finance 100% of expenditures. The Government contribution would
consist of exempting all contracts from taxes and duties and financing the final design & bidding
documents of the rehabilitation of the road Kinshasa-Matadi; (ii) vehicles are goods to be procured
through NCB.
- 50 -



