Document of           FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2b'35-GUA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT
TO
GUYANA
January 12, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Through December, 1972 1/
US$1.00    =    G$ 2.093
G$ 1.00    =    US$0.48
December, 1973
US$1.00    =    G$ 2.105
G$ 1.00         US$0.475
December, 1974
US$1.00    =    G$ 2.229
G$ 1.00    =    US$0.449
Since October, 1975
US$1.00    =    G$ 2.550
G$ 1.00    =    US$0.392
ABBREVIATIONS
BIDCO    -  Bauxite Industrial Development Company Limited
CARICOM  -  Caribbean Common Market
CDB      -  Caribbean Development Bank
CIDA     -  Canadian International Development Agency
EDF      -  Export Development Fund
GEC      -  Guyana Electricity Corporation
GUYSUCO  -  Guyana Sugar Corporation Limited
IDB      -  Inter-American Development Bank
IMF      -  International Monetary Fund
UK-ODA   -  U.K. Overseas Development Administration
OPEC-SF  -  OPEC Special Fund
UNDP     -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID    -  U.S. Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF GUYANA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ The Guyanese dollar floated with pound sterling from
July 1972 to October 1975 when the Government announced
its linkage to the US dollar at G$ 2.55 = US$1.00.



GUYANA                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT
Borrower:              Guyana
Amount:                US$22.0 million equivalent, composed of a Bank loan
of US$14.0 million and IDA credit of SDR 6.3 million
(US$8.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                 Bank loan:    20 years, including five years of grace
at 9.25% per annum.
Credit:        Standard IDA terms.
Program Description:  The proposed loan and credit would support a compre-
hensive economic program designed by Guyana to stem the
deterioration in the economy, stimulate economic growth
and restore balance of payments equilibrium. The eco-
nomic program aims at improving productive capacity,
especially of exportable commodities and manufactured
items produced by the private sector, and completing
the execution of the 1980-82 public sector investment
program. The Bank Group financing of the program would
provide foreign exchange to meet critically needed
inputs for export-oriented industrial and agricultural
operations in both the public and private sectors. In
the case of the manufacturing sector the Bank loan would
finance a revolving Export Development Fund; for this
purpose, the Government would onlend US$8 million to the
Bank of Guyana, with the same grace and repayment periods
and interest rate of the proposed Bank loan, and with
other terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. A
related technical assistance loan which is being submitted
separately would support institutional arrangements and
policies to promote development of Guyana's exports, and
improve the systems for monitoring execution of the
public sector investment program and for expenditure
control.
Loan Description:      The proceeds of the proposed loan (US$14.0 million) and
credit (SDR 6.3 million) would finance imports of
(i) essential chemical inputs and machinery spare parts
required for agriculture and bauxite mining and alumina
processing; (ii) spare parts required for forestry,
fisheries and electrical generation, transmission and
distribution equipment; and (iii) raw materials, inter-
mediate goods and spare parts required for export-
oriented manufacturing industries. Counterpart funds
generated by imports equivalent to US$14.0 million
would be used by the Government to finance local costs
of projects included in the 1980-82 public sector
investment program.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Procurement:           Procurement would be carried out in accordance with
normal commercial practice. For import orders exceed-
ing the equivalent of US$125,000 and above, at least
three price quotations would be solicited. Contracts
exceeding US$1 million would be through international
competitive bidding.
Estimated              US$14.0 million would be disbursed in two equal
Disbursements:       tranches over a period of about eight months.  The
first tranche (US$7.0 million) would be available
when the loan and credit agreements become effective.
The second tranche of US$7.0 million would become
available by May 1981, subject to the Bank being
satisfied with the progress made in carrying out the
overall economic program, including the required studies
and actions relating to rationalization of pricing
policies, export promotion, institutional improvements
in import licensing, coordination in financial adminis-
tration, mobilization of revenues and control of current
expenditures. The allocation to tne 1èzport Development
Fund (US$8.0 million), which is not subject to tranching,
is expected to be disbursed over a 15-month period.
US$ Million
FY81            FY82
Annual                 12.0            10.0
Cumulative             12.0            22.0
Appraisal Report:      None.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
AND CREDIT TO GUYANA FOR STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$14.0 million and credit for the equivalent of
SDR 6.3 million (US$8.0 million equivalent) to Guyana for structural adjustment.
The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, with
interest at 9.25% per annum. The credit would be on standard IDA terms. The
grant element of the proposed lending is about 33%.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        An economic mission visited Guyana in May 1980 and an economic report
has been distributed to the Executive Directors ("Economic Memorandum on
Guyana" [3015-GUA] of June 9, 1980). Annex I contains the basic country data.
3.        Guyana's economy is based on the export of sugar, rice, bauxite and
alumina. Economic activity and population are concentrated along a narrow
coastal strip where sugar and rice are grown. With the exception of bauxite
mining, the hinterland remains undeveloped. When Guyana gained its inde-
pendence in 1966, much of the economy was owned and controlled by foreign
enterprises operating principally in bauxite mining and alumina processing,
sugar production and retail trade. The indigenous private sector was limited
to local trading and agricultural activities. Shortly after independence the
Government sought to gain control over national assets through acquisition of
foreign-owned enterprises, created new state-owned financial institutions and
nationalized the bauxite/alumina and sugar industries. The growing role of
the public sector was reflected in the increase of its share of gross domestic
capital formation from 40% in 1968 to about 80% in 1979. At the same time,
the Government gave high priority to development of the cooperative sector, to
an equitable distribution of income, and to the satisfaction of basic needs
such as for food, housing, health care and education.
4.        In recent years, the country's economy has been adversely affected
by a number of factors, including poor weather conditions, difficult industrial
relations, the exodus of technical and managerial personnel and deteriorating
terms of trade. The 1974 sugar price boom temporarily compensated for the
increase in petroleum and other import prices, but, when sugar prices returned
to lower levels in 1976, the economy experienced serious difficulties. The
boom in sugar earnings encouraged a greatly expanded level of public sector
expenditures and a concomitant high import bill in 1975, neither of which
could be sustained. Public sector investment in 1976 rose to over 30% of GDP.
At the same time, public sector savings fell from about 7% of GDP the previous
year to about 2% and the balance of payments registered a record current



- 2 -
account deficit of over 30% of GDP. Net international reserves became negative.
The economic situation continued to deteriorate in 1977. The authorities tried
to cope with this situation by cutting back imports and reducing public invest-
ment, but international demand for bauxite/alumina declined and a prolonged
strike affected sugar production adversely. Real GDP fell by 5%, export value
declined by 7%, net foreign exchange reserves dropped further, and the country's
commercial arrears reached US$32 million by the end of the year.
Recent Economic Developments
5.        The Government made concerted efforts in 1978 to alleviate the
country's severe economic problems. It entered into a one-year Standby
Agreement with the IMF that year, which provided SDR 15 million over a 12-month
period. The Standby Agreement included measures aimed at improving Central
Government finances such as reductions in subsidies to consumers, and increases
in prices of goods and services produced by public enterprises as well as
providing for an increase in interest rates, reduced imports and removal of
restrictions on foreign companies transferring depreciation funds. A Bank/IDA
program loan and   credit which began to disburse in the latter part of 1978
provided another US$10 million. The priiuary obJectives of the program loan
and credit were to support the short-term stabilization program and, simul-
taneously, an export-oriented development strategy including, inter alia,
a well-designed investment program and financing plan, the timely execution of
export-oriented development projects, and the introduction of appropriate
prices for goods and services produced by state enterprises. As a consequence
of the impact of improved export volume on the finances of the Guyana Sugar
Corporation (GUYSUCO) and the Guyana Rice Board (GRB), and through fiscal and
monetary measures aimed at mobilizing domestic resources and restraining
demand, the Government was able to increase public sector savings from minus
2% of GDP the previous year to plus 5%, and to reduce the current account
deficit on the balance of payments from 22% of GDP to 6%. Public sector fixed
investment was set back to 20% of GDP, the lowest level since independence.
Commercial arrears were reduced by US$10 million, and by the end of the year
net international reserves had increased by US$12 million.
6.        The Government thus was, for the most part, successful in meeting the
monetary and fiscal targets established under the Standby Agreement, but the
expected growth in the economy did not occur. Efforts to control imports
resulted in increasing shortages of intermediate goods and spare parts, lead-
ing to a depletion in productive capital stock and a deterioration in services
that interrupted production and retarded economic activity. As a consequence
of the import cutback, investment reductions and power shortages, real output
virtually stagnated in 1978. The consumer price index rose by an average
anni-al rate of about 20%, reflecting the removal of subsidies, an increase in
ind'ect taxation, shortages of goods, and an upward adjustment of the prices
and rates charged by the public enterprises.
7.        Economic conditions continued to deteriorate in 1979, with real GDP
fall4ng by about 3%.  Although the Government for the most part adhered to
the aulustme-nit programs, poor weather and labor difficulties led to production
declines in all three major export commodities. These difficulties exacerbated
unemployment, which rose to over 20% of the labor force in 1979. Reduced



- 3 -
revenues of the major public corporations and rapidly increasing interest
payments on debt contributed to a lower level of public sector savings, while
declining export receipts and rising outlays for imports, due largely to a 50%
rise in petroleum prices, led to an increase in the current account deficit of
the balance of payments to about 14% of GDP. Inflation remained at about 20%.
Although a three-year Extended Fund Facility (EFF) was negotiated in June 1979,
the Government found itself unable to meet its targets as a result of re-
duced public sector revenues. As a consequence, the Agreement was interrupted.
In 1980, the Government introduced a number of measures to improve the pro-
ductivity of labor, to limit wage increases, and to increase public sector
revenues, including the introduction of an 8% consumption tax on imports, in-
creases in excise taxes, and higher electricity and transportation tariffs.
Despite these efforts, public sector savings deteriorated in 1980. In order to
lay the base for resumed economic growth and balance of payments stability, the
Government entered into a new extended facility with the IMF in June; the details
of the program are described below. While the response of the economy to the
provisions of the program supported by the EFF has not been as rapid as
originally foreseen, a modest economic recovery appears to be under way, with
improvements in rice, calcined bauxite and alumina production over 1979 levels.
8.        In sum, during the last few years, the country has undergone a
painful adjustment process in an attempt to stabilize the balance of pay-
ments, reduce commercial arrears, and adjust consumption to a level
commensurate with resource availabilities and investment requirements for
sustained GDP growth. The level of economic activity during these years has
been reduced by the unavoidable short-term effects of the adjustment process,
and also, particularly in 1979, by other unfavorable factors referred to
above--increases in oil prices, adverse weather and labor problems. These
reverses have underscored the importance of reconciling the short-term
exigencies of Guyana's adjustment process with the requirements for achieving
consistent economic growth and employment generation over the medium and
longer term. In particular, they have emphasized the need to take steps
toward resolving long standing constraints to increasing and sustaining
investment, savings and output levels. The scarcity of managerial, technical
and administrative talents, especially in public enterprises, lack of en-
couragement for private sector activities, insufficient attention to mainte-
nance and rehabilitation of the country's physical infrastructure, inadequate
remuneration levels for technical, supervisory and managerial cadres and the
consequent exodus of such personnel are some of the key constraints which are
now receiving attention in the country's structural adjustment effort.
Actions to alleviate some of these constraints will be initiated in the
economic program which forms the basis of the proposed Structural Adjustment
Loan and Credit. The extent and intensity of the structural adjustment effort
needed to achieve the twin objectives of balance of payments stability and
economic growth will be substantial and the Government's program is - as it
must be - quite ambitious. Accordingly, external support for these efforts
would have to be continued until the mid-1980s, when ongoing projects in
agriculture, forestry, and energy will begin to make a substantial impact on
the economy.



- 4 -
PART II - DEVELOPMENT PROBLEMS AND PROSPECTS
A. The Government's Economic Program
9.        Guyana's economic program aims at resuming economic growth, generat-
ing employment and strengthening the balance of payments through the develop-
ment and expansion of export-generating and efficient import-substituting
activities. In the short run, the program aims at improving utilization of
existing productive capacity, especially of exportable goods, the execution
of a production-oriented investment program in both the public and private
sectors, and a substantial increase in the level of national savings from an
estimated 8% of GDP in 1979 to about 16% by 1983. For the longer term,
the program is directed at facilitating the structural transformation of
the economy in the following ways: (a) sustained growth in the production of
agricultural commodities, of mining, fishing and forestry products, and of
nontraditional manufactures, and a simultaneous restraint in the rate of
growth of the government sector; (b) diversification of the output of the
productive sectors by the introduction of new activities and by the increased
processing of the products presently produced as raw materials, such as timber,
root crops, etc.; (c) substitution of the present huge imports of fossil fuels
by the eventual installation of hydroelectric power and also by utilizing local
and imported sources of energy more efficiently; and (d) the development of
industry to include in the longer run the smelting of aluminum using hydro-
electric power. By these means, the Government hopes to improve the balance
of payments position substantially, increase the proportion of domestic
value added retained by the bauxite sector, and lay the basis for further
development of industry over the longer term. This overall strategy is a
sound one, although the program is quite ambitious. While some of its objec-
tives may not be fully achieved during the program period--owing, for instance,
to unforeseen international economic developments--the main ones could be
within reach, provided that the Government continues the timely implementation
of the necessary policies, and that the international community offers the
required financial and technical support.
10.       Guyana's efforts over the last five years to adapt its policies
and programs to changes in the international economic environment have proven
inadequate. Under a system of administered prices, prompt revision of prices
and subsidies did not occur, with the result that incentives for producers
became weak. Although a system of incentive wages was instituted, inade-
quate premia for scarce technical and managerial personnel resulted in declin-
ing morale. Similarly, while an investment code was announced and encourage-
ment was provided to some private investors, there was lack of a comprehensive
and clearly articulated program for promoting the role of privare investors.
Reduced production levels, inappropriate tariffs for public services, managerial
weakness, and inappropriate interest rate policy have contributed to persistently
low levels of both public and private savings. The steeply rising oil import
bill and a heavy external debt burden have drained scarce foreign exchange
resources.    In order to relieve these pressing constraints to the structural
adjustment effort, the Government has adopted, in consultation with both the
IMF and the Bank, a comprehensive program of institutional and policy reforms.
The Government's economic program, on which both the EFF arrangement and
the structural adjustment loan and credit are based, is described below.



-5-
The Extended Fund Facility (EFF)
11.       The economic program is supported by an Extended Facility arrangement
with the IMF which will provide SDR 100 million over July 1980-June 1983.
Under the provisions of the EFF, the Government is expected to work towards
the removal of price distortions, improvements in the productivity of labor,
increased agricultural yields, and improvements in the relationship between
Government and private sector, particularly through the removal of obstacles
to private initiative.   These efforts should lead to an improved growth
performance which is also predicated on the successful execution of the public
sector investment program. The Government has adopted investment priorities
based on sound economic and financial criteria, and is committed to the strict
observance of such priorities, as well as improvemenit in the its efficiency of
execution of approved investment projects. In this context, the Government
plans to remain in close contact with the Bank, in its capacity as coordinator
of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development, concerning the
progress in the formulation and execution of the public sector's investment
program and any substantial changes in its composition.
12.       In order to promote the stabilization of the public finances and
the balance of payments, the Government has agreed to limit the expansion of
credit during the first EFF program year (i.e., July 1980-June 1981). In
particular, the EFF program provides for a set of ceilings on the combined
net credit to the nonfinancial public sector from the domestic banking system
and private foreign banks. The ceilings limit the increase in the above to
G$ 55 million in the first program year. The program also provides for a
significant reduction in commercial arrears and some rebuilding of gross
foreign exchange reserves.
13.       While the Government plans to make considerable progress towards
its goals of resumed economic growth with balance of payments stability
during the next three years, the EFF is predicated on the recognition that a
longer period of time will be required for Guyana to complete the adjustment
process. Accordingly, given a satisfactory performance, it is expected that
the IMF will continue to support the Government's economic program beyond
1983.
Energy
14.       Since Guyana must overcome its exclusive dependence on imported
energy to launch an effective program of growth and stability, the Government's
medium-term development strategy aims at rapid development of indigenous
hydropower resources. A decision on the specific investments to be undertaken
for this purpose is expected by August 1981, based upon studies supported by
the Bank's Power Technical Assistance Loan (approved in October 1980). At the
same time, surveys indicate the possibility of commercial discoveries of
hydrocarbons. Exploratory drilling is scheduled to begin in 1981. Over the
short-term, steps to promote the efficient use of energy resources and limit
petroleum imports are under way. The Government is undertaking the following
measures:



- 6 -
(a)  Under schemes financed by the USAID, studies are being undertaken
to assess the efficiency of energy utilization. Specific targets
for energy conservation are being adopted by several public sector
corporations.  Some, such as the Guyana Mining Corporation (GUYMINE)
and the Guyana Sugar Corporatiorn (GUYSUCO), have already instituted
effective energy conservation techniques.  These major corporations,
as well as the Guyana Electricity Corporation (GEC), are monitoring
energy usage and are submitting periodic reports to the Cabinet on
progress made in energy conservation.
(b)  Rehabilitation of the steam boilers and improved maintenance of
the aiesel. generating sets of the GEC, with technical assistance
financed by the UK, are under way. The upgrading of the manage-
ment of GEC is being accomplished through the IBRD-financed
technical assistance loan which would assess, inter alia, the
organizational structure, management capabilities, operational
procedures, etc., of the corporation and provide high level
management support and on-the-job training for its staff.
(c)  The use oF indigenous energy sources such as bagasse, woodwaste,
rice husk, and solar energy, is being promoted by GUYSUCO (in the
use of bagasse) and through various investment projects;
(d)  The Government has committed itself to take needed measures to
permit GEC to at-tain a break-even cash position by July 1981 and
gradually improve further its financial position over the medium
term. To this end, it has increased electricity tariffs by 45%
since November 1979 and plans to increase them by an additional 15%
in February 1981. GEC's main deficiency is not in its tariff
levels but in its acute lack of effective management and its
inefficient technical operations, characterized by abnormally high
consumption of fuel, electricity losses and frequent equipment
breakdowns. Further financial improvements will depend not only
on tariff levels but also on progress toward the solution of these
technical and administrative problems. The ongoing program of plant
rehabilitation and technical assistance should prove instrumental
in achieving some degree of cost reduction and improvements in
efficiency. These measures, as well as the recent 30% increase in
tariffs of air, water and road transport services, should promote
more efficient use of scarce petroleum imports.
(e) Studies to determine the most appropriate electricity and
transportation tariff structure, and to promote efficient use
of energy, are under way and will be completed by June 1981.
Export Development
15.       In order to reverse the downward trend in export volume which has
taken place during recent years, the Government has instituted an export action
program.  The program is designed to bring about the rapid expanision of exports
through increased use of the existing production plant, the rapid execution of
ongoing investment projects to improve productivity and expand capacity, the
development of export markets, and the relief of foreign exchange constraints.



The Government is also preparing a long-term export action program which it
plans to complete by June 1981. The Government's export targets for 1981-83
assume the timely implementation of the required policies and the absence of
major negative developments in Guyana's export markets. Such targets are as
follows:
Merchandise Exports--
Actual   Estimate           Targets
1979      1980      1981    1982      1983
Sugar ('000 tons)                     265        260       280      300      310
Calcined Bauxite ('000 tons)           542       625       750      800      860
Dried Bauxite ('000 tons)            1,004       900    1,000   1,100    1,200
Alumina ('000 tons)                    151       225       290      310      330
Rice ('000 tons)                        84        80       108      126       136
Timber (million cu. ft.)                 1.6        1.7      2.0      2.4       3.0
Shrimp and fish ('000 lbs)            550        600       750   1,100    1,500
Molasses ('000 gallons)                 14.6       15.1     16.4    17.4       17.8
Rum ('000 gallons)                       2.9        3.2      3.8      4.1       4.4
- Nontraditional
Manufactures (in 1979 G$ million)  46           46        51       55       60
In order to reach these targets, the following specific programs are under way:
(a) Sugar: The production of sugar has faltered in recent years, reflect-
ing in part inadequate maintenace of equipment, crop diseases, inefficient
factories, and strikes. An increased inflow of external resources will ease
the foreign exchange constraint which has heretofore prevented adequate
maintenance of the plant. The upgrading of equipment should permit more rapid
replanting, including the continued introduction of varieties which are
resistent to smut and rust diseases. GUYSUCO is expanding its wage incentive
program to increase worker satisfaction and tie wage increases more closely
to labor productivity. Production prospects are also enhanced by the
existence of a guaranteed market in the EEC. Given these factors, the volume
of sugar exports are targeted to increase by almost 20% over estimated 1980
levels by 1983. Improved levels of sugar production will also be reflected
in increased rum and molasses output and export.
(b) Rice: The Government is attempting to promote increased production
and export in the rice sector in a number of ways. The rationalization of
pricing policies in the sector is anticipated to bring about a substantial
increase in acreage devoted to rice planting (see para. 16). The initial
execution stage of several large extension, storage and irrigation schemes has
already been reflected in increased rice yields; further increases in yield
from ongoing projects during 1981-83 are anticipated. The increased avail-
ability of foreign exchange will permit expanded use of agricultural inputs
such as fertilizers and pesticides; a new fleet of tractors financed by
a Brazilian line of credit was acquired this year and has been put to work
in the fields. Essential support services, such as research, seed production
and extension are being intensified. The rice modernization scheme, scheduled
for completion in 1982, will reduce post-harvest losses and improve the



quality of the rice product.  The execution of oagoing projects is expected to
result in an acreage expansion of between 7 and 10% by 1983, laying the basis
for further production increases. USAID is providing technica:L assistance to
the Guyana Rice Board (GRB) to strengthen its management and identify new
export markets. Given these developments, the volume of rice exports is
targeted to increase by 70% during 1981-83.D
(c) Fisheries: Technical assistance to the sector is being provided by
IDB.  The Government is presently undertaking investments to increase the size
of the fleet, expand processing facilities and improve transportation, with
the assistance of the IDB, CIDA, EEC and the Japanese.  These measures should
permit rapid expansion in shrimp and fish production for both domestic consump-
tion and export.
(d) Timber: The completion of the Upper Demerara forestry project,
together with increasing private sector timber production stimulated by the
provision of a CIDA-financed line of credit, should permit the volume of
timber exports to increase substantially over 1979 levels by 1983. Private
sector investment in wood curing facilities will permit further processing
into plywood in 1981. Recent arrangements to sell increased timber output
through European marketing agencies will facilitate the identification of
adequate export markets. At the same time, in order to increase the efficiency
of timber extraction, the Government will be initiating studies to improve
forestry leasing arrangements.
(e) Bauxite/alumina: The first phase of the ten-year development plan
for the bauxite/alumina industry provides for several measures to expand
production during the next three years. Earth moving to permit extraction of
the ore is under way and should be completed by the first quarter of 1982. In
order to improve the productivity of the alumina plant, GUYMINE has enlisted
the services of a multinational aluminum company to provide assistance for a
five-year period, with the purpose of increasing output to rated capacity
(310,000 tons) by 1982 and increasing the pLant's capacity by 10% in 1983.
Technical assistance has also been secured to reduce the downtime of essential
machinery. The company is rehabilitating its processing plants, which have
been run down in recent years for want of spare parts. In addition, incentive
schemes have been expanded to improve productivity and to link increases in
pay with higher output.
(f) Nontraditional manufactures: Guyana has established an Export
Development Fund (EDF), to be supported by the proposed Structural Adjustment
Loan, which would provide credit and foreign exchange to export manufacturers.
In recognition of its important role in the manufacturing industry, the
private sector will be represented in the EDF Board. In addition, an Industrial
Development Adviser will be appointed, with responsibility for recommending
programs, policies and institutional arrangements for the manufacturing sector.
The adviser will act as a liaison between the industrial sector, both private
and public, and the Government, providing advisory services to financial,
managerial and exporting institutions in the industrial sector. The Government
has also set up an Export Promotion Unit, assisted by an Adviser, which will



- 9 -
identify and develop export markets for nontraditional commodities. An Export
Promotion Council to encourage exports of handicraft and other nontraditional
manufactures is also proposed.
Pricing Policies
16.       In order to promote the efficient allocation of scarce economic
resources, to contribute to public sector revenue generation, and to avoid an
undesirable subsidy burden on the budget, the Government is committed to the
gradual rationalization of pricing policies. In this regard, a study is
already under way to determine an appropriate pricing structure for the rice
industry.  With a view to providing incentives for intensive farming, improved
productivity, and mobilization of additional lands for rice cultivation, the
producer price was increased by 19% during November 1979-December 1980. The
Government announced in December additional increases of 12-15% effective
January 1, 1981 so as to encourage rice farmers to plant a larger acreage of
rice. A corresponding upward adjustment in the local selling price of rice is
also planned. In the meantime, the ongoing study will examine technological
factors and economic relationships to determine the optimal relationship
between producer prices, consumer prices, and input prices in the rice industry.
The ongoing study will also help establish a system for adjusting the price of
rice periodically. The result of the study should be available by mid-1981.
The reduction of the subsidy for sugar to domestic consumers is also under
consideration. The price of gasoline to consumers reflects world market
conditions and all costs are passed on to the users; the Government plans to
continue this policy. Increases in tariffs for public services including
electricity, public transport, and others were enacted this year (see para 15).
The level of tariffs will remain under continuous review, with further increases
to be enacted as required.
Improving Organizational and Managerial Efficiency
17.       Given the dominant role of the Government and public sector enter-
prises in the national economy, the economic recovery program depends critically
on improvements in both the organization and management of these entities and
effective coordination of activities among them. Actions to be taken under the
present phase of structural adjustment would focus on key aspects of financial
administration. Public finance administration is currently handled by both
the State Planning Commission and the Ministry of Finance. While the authori-
ties have established procedures for higher-level coordination between the
Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for collection and disbursement
of resources, both domestic and external, and the State Planning Commission,
which is responsible for budget preparation and authorization of expendi-
tures, there is need for further strengthening of these coordination mechanisms
at operational levels. The authorities have steadily improved coordination
between the Central Government's revenue collection and expenditures; these
efforts are being further strengthened through regular consultation which began
on December 1, 1980 between the Ministry of Finance, the State Planning Commission
and other relevant departments. The improvement of accounting and auditing
arrangements throughout the public sector will receive particular attention.



- 10 -
Procedures for import licensing by the Ministry of Trade and Consumer Affairs
and allocation of foreign exchange by the Bank of Guyana to importers will be
simplified so as to accelerate the approval process. A Cabiner-subcommittee
was established to monitor external debt in 1978. The subcommittee receives
reports on the existing level of external debt and monitors the external
borrowing activities of all public sector agencies. These measures are
initial steps in an ongoing program of streamlining government procedures and
improving the quality of management in the public sector.
Investment
18.       Guyana's medium-term prospects for the resumption of economic growth
depend heavily on the timely execution of the public sector investment program.
The Government has already established a system for monitoring investment
expenditures through financial controls exercised by the State Planning
Commission. Each quarter the Commission submits a summary report on project
execution to the Project Monitoring Subcommittee of the Cabinet. To minimize
delays in project execution, the authorities are planning to expedite decisions
on such matters as awarding of contracts and through the delegation of greater
authority to project managers. Such authority has up to now been overly
centralized. The Government is planning to utilize external technical
assistance in order to identify and minimize potential bottlenecks to project
execution. In this regard, the proposed loan for a second technical assistance
project which is being submitted jointly with the proposed structural adjust-
ment loan and credit has a component directed toward assisting in the monitor-
ing of the public investment program and improving expenditure control. At
the same time, the Ministry of Works is being reorganized to include
specialized functions in engineering consultancy as well as additional
construction capability.
19.       The Government is also promoting expanded levels of private invest-
ment, both domestic and foreign. In this regard, the Government has already
been successful in attracting U.S., Canadian, French and German companies to
conduct oil, mineral and metal explorations. The Guyana Cooperative Agricul-
tural and Industrial Development Bank is making increased credit resources
available to the private sector with the financial and technical assistance of
the CDB, the IDB, and bilateral donors. To provide the private sector with
clear "rules of the game," the private sector investment code will be clarified
and expanded. Moreover, the employment of an Industrial Adviser and the
establishment of the Export Development Fund (see para. 15(f)) are expected to
help promote increased participation of the private sector in the economy.
National Savings
20.       The Government recognizes the need to increase the level of national
savings as a percentage of GDP (in current prices) from about 8% in 1979 to
15-16% in 1983 if the required investment effort is to be maintained. Such
improvement depends on rapid recovery and expansion in production of major
exports, the maintenance of an incomes policy and other policies directed
toward limiting the growth of real consumption levels, improvements in the
quality of public administration, and the increased confidence of the private
sector.



- 11 -
21.       With regard to Central Government savings, the authorities have
made efforts to reduce a persistent budgetary deficit during the past
four years. The Government enacted a number of tax measures in an attempt
to compensate for the loss of windfall revenues generated by the sugar
levy during 1974-76.  It also substantially improved income tax collection
procedures, with the result that direct taxes increased from 9% to 11% of GDP
during 1976-79. As a consequence of these efforts, Central Government current
revenues accounted for 30% of GDP during 1979, as compared to less than 25% in
1973. In real terms, however, revenues have fallen during the past four years
as a consequence of declining levels of output. In an effort to reverse the
expansion in current expenditures which accompanied the 1975-76 sugar windfall,
the authorities have limited the average annual growth rate of current expendi-
tures to about 8% in nominal terms during 1976-80, a period during which
inflation averaged about 14% each year. Nevertheless, after improving slightly
in 1978, the current budgetary deficit has steadily worsened, and is estimated
to amount to about 9% of GDP in 1980 (as compared to the previous nadir of
about 7% in 1976).
22.       The Government plans to reduce the budgetary deficit  substantially
in 1981 to about G$ 100 million, about 6% of GDP, and to about 5% of GDP in
1983. It plans to accomplish these goals primarily through: (a) increased
revenues arising from the improved performance of the economy; (b) continued
improvements in tax collection and administration (in this regard, the Govern-
ment is seeking external technical assistance); and (c) continued rigorous
control of current expenditures, with a continued decline in real spending for
1981 and thereafter. The Government plans to reduce the real level of current
expenditures, without unduly affecting the real level of compensation for
public servants, by reducing subsidies, putting public corporations on a self-
sustaining basis, and limiting increases in public employment.
23.       An essential part of the Government's plan to increase the level of
public sector savings is to improve the performance of the nonfinancial public
enterprises, whose economic activities account for about 40% of GDP. By
following policies directed toward increasing the production and export of
sugar and bauxite/alumina, the Government plans to increase the gross receipts
of GUYSUCO and GUYMINE substantially. At the same time, through the rationaliza-
tion of pricing policies (see para. 16), particular attention would be given
to those public corporations which now generate deficits or minimal surpluses
with a view to gradually putting them on a commercial basis. Based on these
premises and assuming that the growth in real incomes is limited, the savings
generated by the nonfinancial public enterprises could rise from 5% of GDP in
1980 to 6% in 1981 and to about 9% of GDP in 1983. Assuming the Government
achieves the above targets and the National Insurance Scheme continues to
contribute about 4% of GDP in savings, public sector savings should increase
from 3-1/2% of GDP in 1979 to over 8% in 1983.



- 12 -
24.       The Government also plans to foster private savings.  Efforts
to promote increased use of existing capacity should lead to higher
production levels and larger surpluses on the part of private enterprises.
At the same time, the Government is rationalizing its interest rate policy
in order to mobilize additional financial resources.  In this regard, bank
deposit rates were increased by two percentage points to an average of
about 12.5% in 1980, with the annual rate of increase of domestic prices
about 18%. The Government plans to move gradually toward positive real
interest rates through annual upward adjustments of 1-2%. By encouraging
private sector activity and through gradual rationalization of the interest
rate structure, the Government hopes to raise private sector savings from
an estimated 4% of GDP in 1979 to 8% in 1983.
Labor Productivity
25.       The Government is addressing some important labor issues as an
essential part of its economic program. A number of labor disputes have
interrupted production and resulted in underutilization of capacity in recent
years. These have reflected, in part, the steady decline in workers' real
incomes. In order to promote increased production, minimize labor difficulties,
and provide Guyanese workers in all sectors with the opportunity of improving
their economic situation through their own efforts, the Government is broaden-
ing existing schemes for the provision of wage increases based on worker
performance, production incentives, and worker participation in ownership of
their enterprises. In this regard, the Government has already established a
system of salary differentials based on skills in the public sector. Incentive
systems are also in existence in the bauxite and sugar corporations. The
Government is extending these schemes throughout the public sector, thus
tying wage increases more closely to production performance. In addition,
the Government has already instituted a number of arrangements for increasing
worker participation in the management of enterprises and is seeking technical
assistance to extend the scope of on- and off-the-job training schemes to
include middle and senior management and skilled and semi-skilled technical
staff.



- 13 -
B. The Public Sector Investment Program and Financing Plan
26.       The 1980-82 investment program has been reviewed by Bank staff,
under the aegis of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development,
and found to be generally appropriate in magnitude and composition to the
prospective financial resources and development priorities of the Government.
The 1983 investment program is still under preparation and will be discussed
with the Bank prior to the 1981 Caribbean Group meetings.  About 90% of the
1980-82 program consists of projects already underway; over half the program
reflects projects with committed external financing. In line with the develop-
ment strategy, the projects included in the program aim primarily at increasirng
the volume and the quality of production for export. In addition, the program
includes import-substitution projects in consuimer goods and food items. In
line with Guyana's development goals of export-oriented economic growth, over
80% of total public sector investment is allocated to the productive sectors
of the economy and related infrastructure. It should be noted that, while
Guyana's long-term economic strategy is largely based upon the development of
its large hydroelectric potential and related industrial activity, no major
investments are envisaged yet in the 1980-82 program, since the execution
of such investments is not likely to start until 1983.
27.       Agriculture (including forestry and fishery) accounts for almost 40%
of the investment program. The aim of the agricultural projects is to increase
production in major export crops, to diversify away from sugar into other
export crops and to increase production of other crops for domestic consumptionT
The major portion of this investment is in three extension, storage and irriga-
tion projects for rice production (the Mahaica-Mahaicony-Abary (MMA), Black
Bush and Tapakuma projects), financed by the Bank, the IDB, and other external
lenders. Also included in the program is the Second Rice Modernization Project
financed by the USAID, which aims at minimizing post-harvest losses through
better storage and improving the processing and marketing systems in order to
increase rice output for exports. The execution of some of these projects is
well behind schedule, and continuing Government attention to the solution of
their implementation problems is required. However, the substantial progress
already made in improved water control, applied research, and extension
services has begun to show results through improved yields. Other agricultural
projects emphasize increases in dairy, oil palm, and food production. The oil
palm development project and the food crop production and marketing projects
would significantly reduce food imports while fully exploiting local resources
by the mid-1980s, thus generating foreign exchange savings, employment and
income.
28.       The program-includes projects for strengthening the planning and
execution capacity of the agricultural sector. An agricultural sector planning
project financed by USAID would allow for more comprehensive planning of
programs and project analysis of data, monitoring and assessment of the sectore
In addition, the program includes major projects for the extraction of tropical
hardwoods (the Upper Demerara Forestry Project and the Forestry Equipment
Credit), a bagasse particle board factory, the development of inland fishing
resources and shrimp harvesting and processing.



- 14 -
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAM BY SECTOR, 1979-82/1
(Percentage Distribution)
Sector                                        Estimate           Planned                      1980-82
19J79     1980         1981       1982                  Average
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries             31.9        35.6        40.1        41.0                    39.0
Tourism                                            -         0.2         0.4         0.1                     0.3
Industry                                          6.1        7.4         3.6         4.7                     5.1
Mining                                           18.4        14.7       15.2        11.2                    13.6
Power                                             2.8         4.6         5.4        6.8                     5.7
Transportation and Infrastructure                20.1        13.1       10.9        12.2                    12.2
Water Supply                                      1.6         2.4         2.0         1.5                    2.0
Education.                                        3.5         8.9         7.6         7.2                    7.9
Health                                            1.8         2.0         3.5         3.9                    3.1
Housing                                           0.7         1.0         1.0         0.7                     0.9
Miscellaneous                                    13.1        10.1        10.3        10.7                   10.2
/1   Composition of public investment program for 1983 is yet to be determined.



- 15 -
20.       Projects in the manufacturing and mining sectors account for close
to 19% of investment outlays.  These include new investments in the bauxite
industry that, together with ongoing expansion programs, would increase the
production capacity for calcined bauxite by about 60%.  Further development of
the bauxite operations is anticipated through a stripping and mining project
which commenced in   November 1980 and will take about 20 months for completion.
Efficiency in bauxite operations would be enhanced by the installation of an
electrostatic precipitator to recover bauxite dust for processing into calcined
bauxite while foreign technical support would help in promoting improved
operation of the alumina plant. A feasibility study for Kaolin mining and
processing would determine the range of items which could be produced, and
identify the appropriate process design in the benefication plant to develop
new lines of exports. The completion of a number of small factories and new
industrial development projects have also been included in the 1980-82 program.
30.       Infrastructure projects in communications, power and transport
included in the program are essential to support the production-oriented
investment program and have been allocated about 18% of the total program.
The major investments in this sector would be to link Ceorgetown with the
Corentyne power system so as to make better use of existing generating capacity
and to construct road systems to support development of forestry and agricul-
ture. Apart from the completion of feasibility studies for the development of
Guyana's hydropower resources, investments in the power sector have been
planned to upgrade ranagement capabilities and improve the operation and
maintenance of existing power facilities.  While the scale, timing and finan-
cing of hydropower development have yet to be determined, significant expendi-
tures on large-scale hydropower projects are unlikely to take place until
after 1982.  In addition, investments have been planned to develop bulk-handling
facilities at shipping points for export of rice, rum, shrimp and lumber.
31.       Among the projects included in the social sector--which have been
allocated almost 14% of the total program--the education, training, health
care and water supply projects account for the bulk of the capital expendi-
tures. A substantial proportion of the amount allocated to education wiould
be utilized to complete the IBPD/IDA-financed Second Education Project.
A project to upgrade the levels of existing managerial skills has been included.
In the area of health care two projects--one financed by IDB and the other
to be financed by T1SATD--to improve medical and public health services in
rural areas have also been included. These projects would develop an integrated
three-tier system for supervisory, support and referral services. The provision
of an extended water supply system is crucial to the development of the Guyanese
economy and projects to that effect have been included in the investment program;
these investments include the rehabilitation of the Georgetown water supply,
the Linden water supply system, the CIDA-financed waterwell drilling project
and the rural wells program sponsored by the Netherlands.
32.       Other capital expenditures include projects such as rehabilitation
of public buildings, and community and youth development programs; these
investments account for about one-tenth of the total program.  Approximately
90% of these expenditures are forecast to be financed from local sources.



- 16 -
33.       Guyana's efforts to achieve the objectives of its development
program in the medium and longer term depend to a large extent on substitution
of domestic hydropower for imported fuels and on improved execution of the
three major irrigation projects (namely the Tapakuma, MMA and Black Bush
projects), the Upper Demerara Forestry project, the Second Rice Modernization
program, and some ongoing industrial projects. In order to ensure that
technical expertise is available for completing these projects on a timely
basis, the external agencies have provided financing for consultancy services
and training of Guyanese staff both in project management and export marketing.
Financing of Public Sector Investment
34.       Estimated public sector investment levels during 1981-83 1/ amount
to about G$1.4 billion in current dollars; external amortization payments are
expected to amount to another G$370 million, bringing total financing required
to about G$1.8 billion during the next three years. Assuming the economy meets
its production targets, and given the Government's plans to increase public
sector savings from 3-1/2% of GDP in 1979 to over 8% by 1983 (see para. 23),
public sector savings should be adequate to provide about one-fourth of
capital requirements; modest levels of domestic borrowing would contribute
another 11%. Project-related external resources, already committed, would
cover 23%; committed external budgetary support on concessional terms would
cover about 1%. The remainder of the financing, some G$725 million or about
40% of required financing will need to be mobilized from other external sources.
Approximately half of this amount might be mobilized from new project financing.
Given the size of Guyana's external debt burden and the shortage of local
counterpart funds, the remainder would need to be provided on concessional
terms and to be available to cover part of the local costs of the Government's
investment program. The resources to meet this need would be provided, inter
alia, by the program type assistance offered by the donor countries and insti-
tutions in the framework of the Caribbean Group, the proposed structural
adjustment loan/credit, and the oil facility established by Trinidad and
Tobago. The commitments of foreign assistance made up to now are consistent
with the country's needs during the first EFF year, which will end in June
1981. If the Government continues following appropriate economic policies,
external bilateral and multilateral donors should be able to provide the
foreign resources required in subsequent years. In this framework, it is
expected that commitments of external assistance for the second EFF year will
be made by mid-1981, at the time of the next annual Caribbean Group meeting.
1/   The 1983 investment program is still under preparation.  The projected
level of investment for 1983 is based on Bank staff estimates which assume
the continuation of ongoing projects and modest levels of new investment.



- 17 -
C. Growth and Balance of Pa'ments Prospects
35.       Guyana has the resource endowment to increase output substantially
and improve the well-being of its people. Nevertheless, the economy's
dependence on bauxite/alumina, sugar and rice for production growth and
export receipts leaves it vulnerable to exogenous factors like weather and
international prices, as well as domestic problems such as uncertain labor
relations. Institutional weaknesses and a severe shortfall of managerial
and technical skills are a persistent drag to economic momentum. Assuming
the country substantially improves the management of key public sector
entities, limits production losses due to work stoppages, introduces and
continues the economic and financial policies discussed in Section A, enjoys
reasonably normal weather conditions, and promotes expanded participation of
the private sector in the economy, it might be able to raise output by as
much as 6% annually during 1981-83 and reach the export targets set forth in
para. 15. Some of these assumptions might prove to be too optimistic, but
even assuming a slower pace of export growth and of institutional strengthen-
ing, some adverse weather and a somewhat delayed response on the part of the
private sector, the economy could still achieve real growth rates of about
3-1/2% annually during the period. The primary source of growth will be
increased use of existing capacity and, to some extent, improvements in pro-
ductivity and expansion of the production base as public investment projects
materialize.
36.       The attainment of future growth is predicated upon a level of gross
domestic investment averaging 26-27% of GDP during 1981-83. This level of
investment presumes the execution of the public sector investment program,
the rebuilding of depleted inventories, and a substantial expansion in private
sector investment efforts. To maintain this level of investment, the nominal
level of national savings will need to increase from about 8% of GDP in 1979
to 15-16% of GDP by 1983. Given the adoption of the measures discussed in
para. 20-24 above, this target, while high, is achievable. At the same time,
it is consistent with increases in real per capita private consumption of
about 2% annually during 1981-83. If, on the other hand, growth rates
average only about 3-1/2 % per year, per capita private consumption could rise
but slightly.
37.       Guyana's most pressing macroeconomic priorities during the next
three years are economic recovery, a strengthened balance of payments, an
expanded savings effort, and the execution of the public sector investment
program. The achievement of these goals could set the stage for the structural
alteration of the economy mainly through the development of large-scale hydro-
power resources, if possible on a scale large enough to support an aluminum
smelter in the late 1980s. By this means, the Government would address the
country's most critical external constraints: dependence on imported energy
and a persistent downward trend in the terms of trade.
38.       The scale of investment in the critical energy sector will depend
on the extent to which industrial development can proceed. As has been
indicated already, the development of aluminum smelting is the course of
industrialization preferred by Guyana, because of its potential comparative



- 18 -
advantage in this field arising from indigenous hydropower and bauxite
resources. The Government is now engaged in discussions with various aluminum
companies to determine their willingness to participate in the development of
the aluminum smelter complex on the assumption that the Upper Mazaruni project,
with a generating capacity of 750 MW, can be developed in the latter half of
the 1980s. The recently approved Bank loan to Guyana's power sector includes
a study of various hydropower projects ranging from 100 MW to 750 MW. If
commitments from potential smelter partners are delayed unduly, investments in
smaller or medium-sized hydropower project(s) will have to be programmed in
the early 1980s, so that energy imports for power generation could be reduced
as soon as possible.
39.       Any large-scale hydropower development to come on stream in the
late 1980s will pose a difficult challenge to the economy. Such a project
would be likely to dominate the investment effort in the middle 1980s, rais-
ing gross domestic investment to levels substantially higher than those
projected during the 1981-83 period. In preparation for any such development,
the authorities will need to identify at an early stage potential bottlenecks
with respect to the management capacity of the public sector, the adequacy of
transportation and storage facilities, the availability of skilled and unskilled
labor and the shortage of domestic counterpart funds required to provide a
contribution to the project's financing= Appropriate courses of action which
recognize and address these constraints will also have to be formulatp-.
Prior to a final decision on constructicn of any large hydropower faciiity,
the authorities will also need to assess carefully its long-term macroeconomic
implications, including the impact on investment in other sectors, the effect
on movements in prices and wages, the level of associated construction required,
the impact on employment and growth, the implications for the balance of
payments both during and after the construction period, and the effect on
Guyana's external debt burden. The Government plans to carry out a careful
analysis of these issues, in consultation with the Bank; such studies will be
started during the first half of 1981.
Balance of Payments
40.       Balance of payments management will require achievement of several
objectives, in addition to the basic goal of maintaining imports at a level
sufficient to support the projected levels of economic growth. These include
(i) progressive reduction of the current account deficit as a percentage of
GDP (apart from the balance of payments impact of large externally financed
investment projects such as hydropower development) ; (ii) progress toward the
elimination of commercial arrears; (iii) rebuilding of depleted foreign
exchange reserve levels; and (iv) improvement in the structure of external
debt.
41.       Guyana has the potential of substantially improving its balance of pay-
ments during the next three years. Export prospects are reasonably favorable.
In the case of the high growth alternative (i.e. of about 6%), which presumes
the achievement of the export targets outlined in para. 15 above, exports in
real terms are projected to expand by 17% in 1981 and by 9% and 6% in 1982
and 1983 respectively. To support this rate of expansion, real imports would
need to increase by 8% in 1981 and by about 5% annually in 1982 and 1983,
sufficient to permit an expanded level of imports of intermediate and investment



- 19 -
goods. In light of reasonably favorable prices projected for exports and
assuming    no further precipitous increases in real petroleum prices, the
current account deficit is expected to decrease from over 18% of GDP in 1980
to 14% in 1981 and to 11% in 1983, averaging about 12-1/2% during 1981-83.
Increased external inflows to the public sector, reflecting project financing,
the Trinidad and Tobago oil facility, and other concessional financing,
together with a somewhat expanded level of private capital inflows, should be
adequate to cover the current account deficit. At the same time, the avail-
ability of substantial foreign exchange resources from the IMF should permit
a substantial reduction in external arrears and ,ome rebuilding of foreign
exchange resources.
42.       In the moderate growth case, the current account deficit would
improve less rapidly. Nevertheless, assuming the country achieves export
growth rates (expressed in 1977 dollars) of 14% in 1981, 8% in 1982 and 5% in
1983, and contains the growth of consumer goods imports, the current account
deficit could average about 13% of GDP during 1981-83, and still decline to
about 11-1/2% at the end of the period.
43.       The servicing of public excernal debt obligations has become an
increasing burden in Guyana in recent years with declining export receipts
in most of these years and increased amortization liabilities, in particular
from medium-term borrowings in commercial markets and nationalization loans.
In 1980 the Government took action to improve its external debt position
by refinancing about US$30 million of external commercial bank debt. The
service on the public and publicly guaranteed debt increased from 4% of
foreign exchange earnings in 1975 to about 25% in 1980. After the repayment
of a number of Eurodollar loans, it is projected to drop back to 21% in 1981,
16% in 1982 and to 14% in 1983, taking into account estimated debt service on
interim borrowing. These ratios assume the achievement of the export targets,
and would be slightly higher under the less optimistic growth assumption.
Provided that the authorities proceed with the economic program described in
Section A, and that a substantial part of the required external resources are
provided on concessional terms by the donor community, Guyana may be considered
creditworthy for limited borrowing on conventional terms.



_ 20
GUYANA - MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
(70)
Estimate                   High Growtht                         Moderate Growth
1976-79         1980                  1983         1981-83                  1983         1981-83
Average                                            Average                               Average
As 7 of GDP
Consumaption                                     85.2           87.5                 80.4            81.5                  81.0            82.3
Private                                       58.7          63.3                  59.5           59.9                   60.0           61.0
'!ublic                                       26.5          24.2                 20.9            21.6                   21.0           21.3
Investment                                       26.6           24.5                 27.5           27.3                   26.7            26.4
Private                                        5.6           3.0                   6.5            5.3                    6.0            4.4
Public                                        21.0          21.5                  21.0           22.0                   20.7           22.0
Gross Domestic Savings                           14.8           12.5                 19,6            18.5                  19.0            17.7
Gross National Savings                            8.4            6.0                 16.5            14.7                  15.2            13.5
Private                                        6.3           5.5                  8.0             7.7                    7.5            7.4
Public                                         2.1           0.5                   8.5            7.0                    7.7            6.1
Exports of Goods ard NFS                         62.7          63.0                  64.7           65.1                   65.n           64.8
Imports of Goods and NFS                         74.5          75.0                  72.6            73.9                  72.7            73.5
Resource Balance                              11.8          12.0                   7.9            8.8                    7.7            8.7
Current Account Balance                          18.2           18.5                 11.0            12.6                  11.5            12.9
Rates of Growth
GDPfc (1977 prices)                              -1.9            3.?                                  5.7                                   3.o
Exports (1977 prices)                            -5.1            8.7                                 10.8                                   8.7
Imports (1977 prices)                           -12.9            4.8                                 6.0                                    3.9
Consumption  per capita (1977 prices)            -2.5            5.7                                  1.1                                  -0.4
Private Consumption per capita (1977 prices)-3.1               10.6                                  1.7                                   0.3
Public Consumption per capita (1977 prices) -1.0               -5.4                                 -0.5                                  -2.3
Change in Terms of Tradc                                                                             3.1                                  -3.1



Page 1 oF 3
GUYANA - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTiENT PRUCRAM
Government Response up to                                                     Proposed Born Actions          _
Ecmnoain  Issues                          Jannery 1  1981                                              leasures                                       IBRD Monitoring                             Expectedcoitenir Impact
I So1 sore of Payments
A. Rising petroleum import bill         Energy  -onservation meas-res and targets        Conti-ed e-eili iso of rnergyiessermatimo               Semi-snneal progress reports beginning          t.lit grow-th  f peroleum, imports.
which has contributed to             adopted bv CUYMINIE, CUYSUCO sd other            progrem by po1i1n corsoretines  vith periodic           1/81.  Program will b- dis--sood wiTh
declining terms of trads  nd         public corporations.                             reports to Cobinet on  trogr-es.  Adoption of           IBUD prior to adoption,
erosion in real ins- levels,                                                          a program for the promotion of energy
and exacerbated inflation.                                                            ceosereaLion measires by Jul, 1, 1981.
FPll transfer of fuel price increase             Continuod full transfer of fuel price                   Progress reoiew is April, 1981.                  oroutrago efficient use of scarct
to cnsanmers.  Closing of gasoline               i-creases Le ones-mers.                                                                                 energv rmss-rorus snd limLt growth
stations on weekends.                                                                                                                                    of petroleom  imports.
Rehabilitetion of steam boilers and              Completion of rekabilitalaon end improved                                                               lncreasd  p-ting efficiency of
improved maintenance of diesel generating    maintenance hy mid-1982.                                                                                    CEC' s plant which will reduce
sets of GEC is underway with teclnical                                                                                                                   required fuel im,iports asd improved
assistance from the UK.                                                                                                                                  financial pose Lion of company.
Ilpgrading of GEC's management underway          Cotimatiom of procor- iu-ugb 1992,                      lndonsntinuous review through                   Tncreased op-rsting etficie-cy of
with technical assistanee fron the I3RD.                                                                 projecr stpervision.                            GEt's plant wbich will reduce
roolired fnel io.porrs end isupro-e
finen-ial position of e-mpa.-
Promotion of use of indigenous soirce  of    Studies of epport-nities for increased  se                 Progress of studies to be assessed              ides ;firativo  oF potential
energy O.der various investnent projects.    of alternative energy sources.                              in Antil. 1981.                                 substiriutes for imported energy.
Studies of electricity end                       Studies of electricity and transportation               Progress of studies to be assessed in           Establish-ent o  teariff struOL-es
transporiatiso  tiriff strOcture snderway.    tariff strucLtre  oo-upletod and program  for              April. 1981.  Program  for eaeoltinn            ubicl, e11l pr-note Ihle nest
e-esution agroed open hy July 1, 1981.                 of recsmmendations to he agreed  Ipopn          offinies  use of energy resoncres.
in consultation with the Bank.
B. Stagnant or declining oxpert         Tntroduetion of expert actien program:            Expansion of eaport action program:
voisne.
1.  Sugar - upgrading of equipment               1.  Sugar - increased supplies of ferLiilier            Review in April, 1981.                          Increased pr-oc-Lion and report
- introduction of disease                          sod spars parls                                                                           volume of sugar: increased savings
resistant cane varieties                       - espansien of wage incentive                                                               of CLTYSUCO.
- wage incentive program                           progran
2.  Rice  - new tractor fleet                    2.  Rine  - increased use of agricoltural inputs   Review in April. 1981.                               increased yields end consequert increase
- increased support ser-ices                                                                                                                  in production and naperL volume of rcie.
- decvlopomin of eatenaion,                       -contined peog.es.  in extensien,           Review through nomit-ring of                    ilcreased nields and consetuont increase
storage and irrigation schemes                   storage and irrigation                     inmestment program.                            in pr-diiniisn and e-pert vaonle of rice.
- 19% increase in producer pr'rev
during preceding 12 months and                                                                                                              Increased acreage devoted  Lo rice and
12-15% increase in producer                                                                                                                export volume in spring crop.
pricea for 1981 spring erep.
- toni fi.atioI of UISATl  technical        Review in April, 1981.                          Increased efficiency of marketing
asedsislone program                                                                       and development of sufficieni empolrt
markets for expanded volume of rice
productios anticipated in mid-1980s.
3.  Bauxite/alumina -                            3.  Baeuite/alulnoa -
- earthmeving underway to enable                 - earthmoving  onpleted by mid-1982                                                                Tncrease a-cess to lia-rito ore, Huns
c-ntionuon baunite mining operatiens                                                                                                              increasing efficiency, and 1evel of
- contraOt with nulti-nationel to                                                                                                                   bauxite pr-duction.
improve reliability of operations and
to increase alumina production                 - plant alumina capacity to be increased                                                           Expand alunina export volume.
capacity signed in 1980,                         by 107 by 1983.
- introduction of progran to redoce dero         - continuation of phogren                                                                           Tmprove efficiency of operations end
line oF essential machinery and                                                                                                                   increase eport volume.
rehabilil-aiso of processing plants



Page 2 of 3
- 22 -
GUYANA:  TlE STRUCTURAL AD.J'STMENT PROGRAM
Governmen.t Response up to                                                        rnsdPlc    cin
Economic Issues                           January 1, 1981                                           Measnres                                            R   M                                        Expected Economic Impact
B, (cont'd)
4.  Nontraditional manufacto,res                  4.  Nootraditional noanufaturcs
- employment of con-ultant to                     - Establi,lm-onc  of Eoper Dnvclopcent Food        Quarterly reports co--enting                    Provision of foreign eechange to
prepare for establishment of                      (EDF) to provide foreign exc-bsge asd             April 1981 to fourLh qlarter If                 finance intermediate goods imports
Export Development FPnd (EDF),                    credit to man-factnring sector.  The Pond    1983.                                                will facilitate expansion of
would be operational by Febccary 28, 1981.                                                        manufactured exports.
- Appointneni of Industrial Developnmet             Selection in cons- ltation with                 Adviser will reemmend programs,
Adviser by Joly 1981.                             the TBRD.                                       policies and institntiooal arrange-
ments to strengthen indostrial sectsr.
- Increase professional staff of import             Pcogress review in April 1981.                  Development of export markets for
Prmomtinn Unit to 4 persons by                                                                    nontraditional manufactures.
March 31, 1981.
- Establishmnnt of Enporic Plo-tion Council    Progress review in April 1981.                       Development of export rarkets for
with reprenentatives  ross p,ublic and                                                            nontradi:iocal man-factores.
private setLtrs.
5.  tong-term export progrm                       I.ln-er    xot  rga
- Decision Co prepare an export long-             - Completion of Song-term ceport program            To be reviewed with Bank staff                  To promote continoed export
term program.                                     by .JLane 30, 1981.                               third nluarter of 1981.                         expansion over Ihe longer tern.
T)0 T_vestmaet
A. Delays, cost overruns and             Establishment of system for monitoring            Continued clone monitoring of progress of               Quarterly reports on progress of                 Improved execution of investment
inefficienci.s in the                investment expenditures through financial    investment program.  UtilitaLiom of exLernal                  investment program beginning Janmary            program and more rapid progress of
public sector invnstment.            controls exercised by the State Planning           technical assistance to ninimiee potential              1981.  Detailed aunnal invetmrent levels   major prod-ctios projects.
Commission with quarterly reports tlo Project bottlenecks to project execution.                           and Financing plans to be agreed upon
Monitoring Std bcosittee of the Cabinet,                                                                  with IBRD.  l,bstamtive cbanges in
composition to be reviewed with IBRD
Formulation of investment program and                                                                     quarterly octi1 December 1982,
financing plan in conssltation with IBRD.
Expedition of decision  on contract awards              Progress review  in April 1981.                 Improved execution of investment
by December 1981.                                                                                       program  and more rapid progress of
major prodm-cion projects.
Delegation of greater asthority to project              Progress review  in April 1981.                  Improved execution of investment
managers by December 1981.                                                                               program  and more rapid progress of
major production projects.
Reorganieation of Ministry of Wocks to include          Progress review  in April 1981.                  Improved exemcclion of inveetmont
specialized f-nclions is engine-ring                                                                    program  and more rapid progress of
consultaucy and additional constr-ction                                                                 major prodmction projects.
capacity.
B. Declining real levels of             Institution of private sector investment           Clarification and expansion of code by                  Progress review  in April 1981.                  Increase confidence of both indigens
private investment.                  code,                                             Septemober 1981.                                                                                         and foreign primate sector and promote
expanded levels of private investment.
Prom-tion of private foreign investment           Increase in credit resources available to               Progress review in April 1981.                   Increase financial resources available
in oil, mineral and metal exploration             private sector by December 1981.                                                                         for private investment.
and mansfactoring operations.
Establishment of EDF, Indostrial Adviser                Progress review  in April 1981.                  Imerease output of experts, expansion
and Import Fromotion Council.                                                                           of export markets and improved
institution support for strengthening
the. indu,strial sector.



Page 3 of 3
- 23 -
GUYANA:  TIIE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Government Response up to                                                         Proposed Policy Actions
Economic  ossues                            January 1, 1981                                            Measures                                           NBRD Monitoring                               Expected Economic impact
IIT. Downward Trend in National Svings
A. Public sectar savisgc
I  Persistent co--ent                 Tao measures in 1980 budget incloding             Contimoed improvements in Lax collection                 Progress review  in April 1981.                  Gradual redaction in the size of
budgetary deficit.                 br.adening of c-nsmption tax base,                and adminisnraLicn.                                                                                       fral    1980             c.rren  defici
increase in tax rates and incrases                                                                                                                         from 9% in TREE to 5% of GDP by 1983.
in ercise taxes.                                  Rigorous control of current expenditure
levels through reduction of subsidies and
Limitation on growth of current                   limitations on increases in public employnent.
expenditures Lo 87. annual rate dturing
1976-80.
Improvement in collection of insane
tax arrears daring 1977-79.
2. Low savings gonmrotod by                                                             Rationalicaoion of pricinp, policies for                 Progress review in April 1981.                   Place corporations on economic basis,
publ ic  -orporations.                                                               public corporations.                                                                                     Increase pablin e-cerprise savings
Establishment of savings targets far all                                                                 is 1983.
poblic corporatione.
B. Doclining real le-els of               Increase in Bank deposit rates by                 Gradual movement toward real interest rates              Review in April 1981 of G- -nm 's               Increased mobilization of financial
private secoro  savings,              2 percentage points in 1980,                       through annual upward adjastuents of                    proposed timing for interest rate                savings by barking system.
1-2 percentage points.                                  adjustments,
IV. loappropriate Prtcang Policies
A. Low farmgote prices for rice           19, increases in prod-cer prices for 1980    Cempletion of study and adoption of system for                Recomenodations of study L. he                  Expanded export volome of rtce.
resuing in a reduction in             sand further increase of 12-15% in rice           periodic adjastnent of inp,t, far-gate and               reviewed by Bank in tbird o-arter
-acreage devated to the crop.          prices for 1981 spring crop,  Ongoing              donestic consauer prices.                               of 1981.
study on appropriate relation between
faro,rgate prices, cons-mer prices and
agricultural input subsidies.
Increases in electricity and                     FPrther increases of electricity tariffs by 15%    Semi-a-uroal review of electricity and                 Encearege decreased ass of scarce
transportation tariffs of 45% and 30%             in February 1981.  Additional measures as                transport tariffs beginning                     energy resources and improve
respectively in 1980.                             required to eliminate (tC's cash deficit by              November 30, 1980.                              financial position in public
July 1, 1981.  Continuous transfer of increase                                                           corporations,
in fuel costs to cons-mers.
V. Inst_tutto-l Weskne-s
A. E,ternal debt o-nagemnct               Establishment in 1978 of Cabinet                  Continued monitoring and increased control               Progress review in April 1981.                  Better control and improved
sabcommittee to monitor external debt,            over emLernal borrowing of all public agencies.    Cuvana already provides reports to                    management of external debt.
External Debt Division of IBRR.
T, Pablie Finnate adminfstration          Procedures established for high level             Strengthbeing of coordination at operational             Progress review in April 1981.                  Inpr-ve managerial efficiency and
coordination between MinisLry of                  levels.                                                                                                  strengthen institutions.
Finance and State Planning Commission.
Strengtbening of accounting and asoditing
arrangements throughout public sector,
C, Tiport licensing system                Simplification of import licensing                Completion of simplification of import                   Review in April 1981.                           Acceleration of Import approval
procedures,                                       licensing procedures in first quarter of 1981.                                                           process.
Vf. Labor Prod-ntivity                     Broadening of existing schemes for the            Contin-ed efforts to clarify and extend wage             Progress review in April 1981.                   Expansion in labor productivity,
provision of wage increases based on              incentive scheme.                                                                                        Increased worker satisfaction
productivity.                                                                                                                                              and reduction in cnkber of verk
stoppages.
Extension of on- and off-the-job training schemes  Progress review in April 1981.                        Increases is labor produrtiwity
to include middle and senior management and                                                              and strengthening of inscitrtionS.
skilled and semi-skilled technical staff.



- 24 -
PART ITI - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT
44.       The proposed structural adjustment assistance supports the broad
Government strategy outlined in Part II, and the specific actions scheduled
to be taken during 1981. The proposed loan and credit would provide foreign
exchange to finance critically needed imports of raw materials, intermediate
goods, equipment and spare parts and support the Government's economic program
outlined in Part II and in the Government's letter on development policies
(Annex IV). In addition, the related technical assistance loan which is being
submitted separately contains financing to support institutional arrangements
and policies to (i) better mobilize the productive capacity and entrepreneurial
potential of the private sector, especially in export-oriented activities, and
(ii) improve management and monitoring of the execution of the public sector
investment program. A portion (equivalent to US$14 million) of the local
currency generated by imports under the loan and credit will be available in
order to help meet the local cost needs of projects in the 1980/82 public
sector investment program.
45.       The economic program and structural adjustment loan have been pre-
pared in close collaboration with the Fund staff. The field visits for
preparation and appraisal of the structural adjustment loan and credit were
conducted parallel to Fund staff visits for the preparation and negotiation of
the Extended Fund Facility. The EFF program, which was approved in July 1980,
is growth-oriented and calls for a wide range of measures directed toward
adjusting the domestic economy to the prevailing international economic con-
ditions. These measures are described in paras. 11-13 above. The IMF staff
supports the proposed structural adjustment loan and credit, which complement
the EFF arrangement.
46.       The loan and credit negotiations were held in December 1980 with
a delegation headed by Patrick Matthews, Governor of the Bank of Guyana.
A supplementary loan/credit data sheet is attached as Annex III.
Loan and Credit Amounts and their Allocation
47.       The amount of proposed Bank/IDA assistance for structural adjust-
ment is US$22.0 million equivalent, composed of a Development Credit of
SDR 6.3 million (equivalent to US$8.0 million) and a loan of US$14 million
equivalent, both to be used for imports. Since the Structural Adjustment Loan
and Credit are intended in the short run to ensure improved utilization of
productive capacity of exportable products, it would be necessary to target
imports financed by the loan and credit to specific sectors of the economy.
Therefore, the proceeds of the loan and credit would be utilized as follows:



- 25 -
US$ Million
Chemical inputs and spare parts for
agriculture, equipment and spare parts
for fisheries, and spare parts for
forestry operations                                 6.0
Equipment and spare parts for power
generation, transmission and distribution           5.0
Chemical inputs and spare parts for bauxite
mining and processing                               3.0
Raw materials, intermediate goods and spare
parts for export-oriented manufacturing
sector (through a proposed Export
Development Fund - EDF)                             8.0
22.0
48.       The allocation for inputs and spare parts for agricultural, forestry
and fishery equipment, and bauxite mining and processing operations would help
sustain employment and increase exportable goods of these sectors, which have
been hard-hit by lack of foreign exchange. Similarly, the manufacturing
sector, which had to curtail its import of raw materials and intermediate
goods for processing, would be able to realize its export potential by having
assured access to foreign exchange for that purpose through the EDF. The
electrical generation and transmission equipment, which have bec.a run down by
poor operating and maintenance practices, need to be rehabilitatnd and kept
in operation if productive activities are to proceed without interruption.
The allocation earmarked for the energy sector will finance these spare parts
and some replacement equipment while the technical assistance loan for the
power sector recently approved and an ongoing technical assistance program
of the UJK-ODA would provide managerial and technical support for this sector.
This should enable the power company to develop a planned maintenance scheme
in place of the present system of repairs after a breakdown occurs.
Loan Administration Arrangements
49.       The Government of Guyana would be the borrower.  The main responsi-
bility for administering the loan and credit proceeds would be with the Bank
of Guyana, which would coordinate its actions with the other relevant agencies,
namely the State Planning Commission, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of
'Trade, and public sector entities such as the Guyana Mining Enterprises,
Guyana Sugar Corporation, Guyana Electricity Corporation, Guyana Rice Board,
Guyana Fisheries, etc., as well as export manufacturers in the private sector.
To ensure prompt and efficient importing arrangements, the Government has
agreed to simplify and accelerate procedures for licensing and foreign exchange
authorization.



- 26 -
50.       The proposed loan and credit support the Government's structural
adjustment program and provide a time frame within which specific policy
measures will be taken, in consultation with the Bank. The details of these
actions have been dealt with in Part II. The schedule of activity over the
next 12 months is discussed below.
51.        nergy.  In order to limit the country's dependence on imported fuel
over the short term, a number of public corporations have instituted effective
energy conservation techniques. The Government would submit semi-annual reports
to the Bank on the progress of energy conservation efforts by major users,
beginning in February 1981. The studies now under way on the electricity and
transport tariff structure, and on the promotion of energy conservation
measures would be discussed with the Bank and a program for implementation of
appropriate recommendations would be completed by June 1981. Half yearly
progress reports on the studies and measures adopted would be provided to the
Bank until December 1982.
52.       Export Promotion and Industrial Development Activities.  Guyana's
exports are dominated by three primary commodities, namely bauxite/alumina,
sugar and rice. There has been little attention given so far to the need
for providing institutional support for the development of manufactured
exports. The small manufacturing sector is predominantly in the private
sector. To strengthen the manufacturing sector, an Industrial Adviser to
be financed by the related technical assistance loan would be appointed by
mid-1981, with responsibility for recommending programs, policies and
institutional arrangements for the development of the manufacturing sector,
acting as a liaison between the industrial sector and the Government and
providing advisory services to appropriate financial, managerial and exporting
institutions in the industrial sector. In order to develop an export-oriented
manufacturing sector, the following additional actions are planned under the
structural adjustment program:
(a) An Export Development Fund (EDF) has been established to promote
the development of manufactured exports. The policies and procedures
of the EDF are being formulated and would be satisfactory to the
Bank (see Annex V). The EDF is to be a revolving foreign exchange
fund for the purpose of providing foreign exchange to meet the
recurrent requirements (for raw materials, intermediate goods,
packaging materials, and spare parts) of domestic nontraditional
exporters. For this purpose, the Government would onlend US$8
million out of the proposed Bank loan to the Bank of Guyana, with
the same grace and repayment periods and interest rate envisaged in
the proposed Bank loan, and with other terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank (Section 3.01(b) of Loan Agreement). The EDF
would be maintained for a period of not less than five years
(Section 3.04 of Loan Agreement). Initially, the EDF will make
available foreign exchange against equivalent deposits in local
currency. The Bank of Guyana would provide foreign exchange over
and above the loan funds to meet the import needs of eligible export
manufacturers (Section 2.01 of the Joint Project Agreement).
Criteria for determining eligibility for use of EDF resources are



- 27 -
outlined in Annex V. The Bank of Guyana has already assigned the
manager and two full-time staff members to the EDF so as to ensure
that the EDF becomes operational prior to February 28, 1981 (Section
2.01 of Joint Project Agreement). Quarterly reports on the activities
of the EDF would be sent to the Bank commencing April 1981 until the
last quarter of 1983 (Section 2.06 of Joint Project Agreement).
Within the first year of the EDF's operations, the Government would
submit a scheme satisfactory to the Bank by which the EDF would
extend credit to eligible importers (Section 2.09 of Joint Project
Agreement).
(b) The Export Unit in the State Planning Secretariat and the
Export Adviser would be transferred to the Ministry of Trade.
The Export Unit would be operated with a sufficient number of
staff members no later than March 31, 1981 (Section 4.06 of Loan
Agreement). A long-term export action program would be drawn up
by June 30, 1981 for review with Bank staff in the third quarter
of 1981.
53.       Pricing Policies.  With rapidly rising costs of inputs, systematic
arrangements are needed to adjust both producer and consumer prices for the
key public sector corporations cu remain financially viable and for the
econc--,y t  reali  i-ts optimum p:: uction potential.  This requires a phasei
approach to eliminate producer and consumer subsidies. Towards this end,
the following actions would be taken:
(a) The ongoing study on the effectiveness of existing input
subsidies for rice growers and on farm-gate orices for rice
would be reviewed with the Bank in the third quarter of 1981,
with a view to adopting a system for periodic adjustment of
input and output prices (Section 4.04 of Loan Agreement).
After increasing the producer price for rice by 19% between
November 1979 and December 1980, on December 10 the Government
announced further increases of 12-15% (effective January 1,
1981), so as to encourage farmers to plant a larger acreage for
the next spring crop.
(b) Electricity tariffs, which were increased by 45% over the
last 12 months, will be further increased by 15% in February
1981. Further tariff increases would be taken as needed in
order to eliminate the cash deficit in the Guyana Electricity
Corporation by July 1, 1981 (Section 4.02 of Loan Agreement).
54.       Improving Organizational and Managerial Efficiency.  While the
Government has established systems for inter-agency coordination, there is
need to strengthen further the systems for regular consultation between the
Ministry of Finance, the State Planning Commission and other appropriate
agencies. Regular reporting arrangements on data dealing with revenue collec-
tion, expenditure authorizations, external and domestic borrowings, etc.,
would be established. These reports are expected to help improve the overall
monitoring of the economy by the Economic Sub-Committee of the Cabinet.
Half-yearly status reports on public sector finances would be reviewed with
the Bank beginning January 1981 until December 1982.



- 28 -
55.       All importation of goods into Guyana must be licensed, Import
licenses are issued on the basis of criteria which include: the level of
imports by the enterprise in previous years, the likely employment effect of
the imports, the potential of the enterprise for foreign exchange earning
or saving and the development priority of the enterprise. The present system
of licensing operates as a mechanism for rationing foreign exchange and is,
therefore, restrictive insofar as the needs of new manufacturing enterprises
are concerned. The Government has agreed to review and simplify the import
licensing procedures by January 31, 1981, through shortening the application
form and reducing the number of agencies involved in the approval process.
It will also examine the scope for gradually relaxing the restrictions as
the foreign exchange position improves and moving to a system based on general
licensing.
56.       Investment Program.  Since the quality of the public sector invest-
ment program is of fundamental importance in achieving export growth and
economic viability in the medium-term, the need to maintain the size and
composition of the 1980-82 investment program unimpaired is patent. Towards
this end, the Government has agreed that the size and composition of public
sector investment program for 1980-82, reviewed by the Bank (see para. 15 of
Annex IV), would be adhered to and the Government would provide the Bank
quarterly reports on the progress in the implementation of the public sector's
investment program. The detailed annual investment levels and financing plans
for the program 1981 and 1982 would be agreed with the Bank (Section 4.05 of
Loan Agreement). Substantive changes in its composition--including the addi-
tion of any project estimated to cost US$400,000 or more--would be reviewed
in advance with Bank staff every quarter until December 31, 1982 (Sections
4.03 and 4.05 of Loan Agreement). The periodic reviews of the public invest-
ment program would complement the reviews by the IMF staff of the financial
targets agreed upon under the EFF arrangement. In addition, the Guyana
investment code would be elaborated to provide clear guidelines for both
domestic and foreign investors. The Government has sought technical assistance
from India for this purpose. A progress report on this matter would be given
by the government to the Bank by September 30, 1981 (Section 4.07 of Loan
Agreement).
57.       National Savings:  The Government's economic recovery program envi-
sages increased national savings. Improved monitoring of Central Government
and public sector expenditures, adherence to a productivity-oriented incomes
policy, incentive schemes to step up production in both public and private
sector operations and adoption of further increases in deposit rates are
measures which should be programmed for implementation in 1981. A report on
the Government's program to mobilize domestic resources, including adoption
of policy measures relating to expenditure control, improved productivity and
output, and interest rate adjustments, would be submitted to the Bank by
March 31, 1981 (Section 4.07 of Loan Agreement). Further measures needed to
strengthen national savings would be discussed between the Government and the
Bank in April 1981, when the Bank will review progress toward achieving the
targets outlined in para. 20.



- 29 -
Counterpart Funds
58.       Counterpart funds of all the loan/credit proceeds, except for the
amount allocated to the EDF, would be deposited in the special account created
in 1978 for the first Import Program Loan/Credit.   These resources would be
used to finance local costs of projects in the public sector investment
program and priority consideration would be given to the local currency needs
of export-oriented projects. Half-yearly reports commencing July 31, 1981
would be submitted to the Bank on the utilization of the counterpart funds
(Section 3.05 of Loan Agreement).
Disbursement and Procurement
59.       With the exception of the amount allocated to the EDF, the structural
adjustment loan and credit would be disbursed in two equal tranches over a
period of about eight months. The first tranche of US$7 million would be
available upon loan effectiveness. The second tranche of US$7 million would
begin disbursing by May 1981, subject to the Bank being satisfied with the
progress made in the execution of the Government's economic program, including,
inter alia, (i) interim adjustment of electricity tariffs; (ii) studies
relating to rationalization of pricing of electricity and transportation
tariffs; (iii) adoption of the 1981 public sector investment program and
financing plan; (iv) monitoring of the execution of the public sector invest-
ment program; (v) the domestic resource mobilization effort, including arrange-
ments for improved coordination of revenue collection and expenditure, adoption
of measures for increasing public sector savings and adjustment of interest
rates so as to stimulate private savings; (vi) detailed provisions for giving
effect to the Guyana Investment Code; (vii) streamlining of import licensing
procedure so as to simplify and accelerate the licensing process; (viii) effec-
tive operation of the Export Development Fund; and (ix) the relocation of the
Export Unit in the Ministry of Trade and actions relating to the preparation
of a long-term export action program (Schedule 1, para 4 of the Loan Agreement).
The effectiveness of the loan and credit would be conditional upon the conclu-
sion of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government of Guyana and the
Bank of Guyana for on-lending the amount earmarked for the EDF (Section 6.01
of the Loan Agreement). The allocation to the Export Development Fund (US$8.0
million), which is not subject to tranching, is expected to be disbursed over
a fifteen-month period. Disbursement of these funds would be conditional upon
the establishment of the EDF, with organization, policies and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank and appointment of appropriate staff.
60.       The Bank of Guyana would administer the structural adjustment loan/
credit funds and their counterpart. It would maintain a separate account for
the loan and credit funds earmarked for (i) the EDF and (ii) imports financed
under the loan/credit other than through the EDF. It would collect and retain
evidence of quotations obtained, orders placed, foreign exchange released,
invoices, and evidence of payments made. The withdrawal applications, which
would be prepared by the Bank of Guyana, would contain certification that
proper procurement and payment procedures were followed. They would be
supported by full documentation. In order to simplify preparation and process-
ing of withdrawal applications, import expenditures of less than US$5,000



- 30 -
ecuirsLen: o      not De eligible for financing from the loan and credit.  The
accounntst feli:  :t   the Ioan and credit, as well as the accounts relating to
the couonterartt funds, would be audited by independent auditors and the audit
report would he suJb.citted to the Bank (Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement).
61_       -ontracts exceeding US$1.0 million would be awarded through inter-
national competitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Orders for imports cost4ng between US$125,000 and US$1.0 million would be
placed after soliciting three price quotations. In this regard, State-owned
enterprises and trading companies may obtain competitive quotations either
directly or through their buying agents abroad.  In those instances where for
reasons of efriciency and economy purchases are to be made under existing
long-term contracts or under arrangements for direct buying from manufacturers
or their agents, the Bank's approval would be sought prior to placing orders.
Contracts exceeding US$500,000 would be subject to an ex-post review by the
Bank; i.e., the Bank of Guyana would provide the Bank a brief report with the
relevant withdrawal application containing evidence that the contracts were
'et in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.  Purchases of less than US$125,000
would be carried out in accordance with normal commercial practice. These
requirements are unlikely to slow down procurement or disbursement.
Benefits and RIsks
62.       The principal benefits of the loan and credit would be to enable
Guyana to obtain essential imports needed to support a program of resumed
growth with movement toward balance of payments viability. The structural
adjustment assistance would help sustain a public sector investment program
based on increasing the export potential of the country. It would help
improve the efficiency of resource allocation and help establish institutions
and policies conducive to growth in investment and production, particularly
in the private sector. The pricing policies, rationalization of licensing
arrangements and creation of new institutions for promoting industrial develop-
ment and exports are expected to increase private investment--both domestic
and foreign--in Guyana.
63.       The nrincipal risk involved in the structural adjustment program
relates to the shortage of personnel in public service to carry out not only
the public sector investment program but also policy and institutional changes
envisaged in the economic program. The provision of external technical
assistance on an ad hoc basis, either out of the technical assistance funds
earmarked in Bank Group projects or other aid programs, should help reduce
this risk. The incomes and pricing policies, including the elimination of
producer and consumer subsidies, may meet with resistance from affected
parties. The Government is confident that concerted efforts on the part of
the national leadership to explain the rationale of the economic program would
help reduce this risk. The program, as a whole, is an ambitious one, but
even if all targets are not reached, it is expected that substantial progress
will be made towards achieving the main objectives of the overall strategy,
which is reasonable and appropriate to Guyana's current conditions and,
therefore, deserves external support.



- 31 -
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUYANA
64.       The first Bank loan made in 1961 to the then British Guiana for
agricultural credit was repaid in full. Since independence in 1966, Guyana
has received, net of cancellations, US$55.8 million in loans from the Bank and
US$28.5 million in credits from IDA for eleven development projects. In
addition, an EEC Special Action Credit of US$3 million equivalent was provided
in 1979 for an import program and a technical assistance loan of US$8 million
for the power sector was approved by the Bank in October 1980. Reflecting
the development needs of the economy, past lending to Guyana has been for
physical and social infrastructure. 25% of Bank Group lending has been for
sea defenses, highways and power. Two education projects designed to improve
secondary education and strengthen agricultural and vocational skills account
for 21% of Bank Group lending to the country. Assistance to agriculture,
forestry and livestock development account for 42% of total Bank/IDA lending
to Guyana while program lending accounts for the remaining 12% of Bank Group
operations in Guyana. There has been one IFC operation in Guyana, namely, a
stove manufacturing project in which an investment of $2 million was made.
Annex II contains a summary account of the status of projects under execution.
65.       In general, while the execution of Bank Group projects has been satis-
factory, the pace of project implementation has been slow. Shortage of skilled
technicians, institutional weaknesses, lack of a central office to coordinate
and monitor project implementation, and lack of enough resources to meet local
costs account for delays in project implementation. Several of the ongoing
projects which were appraised before the substantial rise in world inflation
in 1973-74 have been faced with substantial cost overruns to be met by Guyana.
The Bank Group has been assisting the Government in obtaining financing from
external sources to meet the needs of some of these projects. In the case of
the ongoing Tapakuma irrigation project which is facing a 190% cost overrun,
a financing package was worked out with the UK Overseas Development Ministry
(ODM), the OPEC Fund, and the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB).
66.       Earlier Bank Group operations in Guyana have been mostly aimed at
strengthening both the physical and social infrastructure as well as Government
institutions.  The two Sea Defence Projects (Ln. 559 and Ln. 765), approved in
1968 and 1971, were designed to protect the coastal agricultural lands and the
country's administrative and population centers from tidal inundation. The
Highway Project (Cr. 301), approved in 1972, while supporting agricultural
operations, included technical assistance to the Ministry of Works in preparing
a national transport development strategy. Acting as the executing agency of
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Bank organized a transport
sector study and helped in setting up the Central Transport Planning Unit.
The Power Project (Ln. 875, 1973) cofinanced by CIDA and ODM, and, more
recently by the CDB, was designed to increase thermal generation capacity
modestly, integrate the national power system through frequency conversion and
interconnection, and provide training and institutional improvement. Acting
as the executing agency of the UNDP, the Bank organized a survey of Guyana's
hydropower potential in 1974/75. The recent Technical Assistance Loan to the
power sector (Ln. 1906) is intended to help develop, inter alia, appropriate
hydropower projects in Guyana.



21
67.       With a view to developing a D   eBeva-W,.t    !yStem a d  educiJ.ng
manpower constraints, the Ban.6 `-   's'4.',                           2aTintion
Projects (Cr. 139 and Ln. 583 for the First Educattcon vra 4ect of 7969, and
Cr. 544 and Ln. 1106 for the Second Education project of 1975).  These projects
include multilateral secondary schools, community hi gh schools and teacher
training facilities, and emphasize agricultural e-;iucation and rural training.
The Second Education Project includes the deve'opment os  curricula fcr tech-
nical institutes, fellowships for tec6hlcal zeachers and a atudc- to assess the
effectiveness of vocational and technical edlucatiao. and training system in
meeting Guyana's needs.  This study would help identify priorities for long-term
investment in education and training.
68.       Apart from the recently launched Upper Demerara Forestry Project
(1978) and the Black Bush Irrigation Project (1978), the Bank Group has financed
other directly productive projects, namely, the Livestock Project (Cr. 221 of
1970), and the Tana`kuma Irrigation Project (Ln. 1016 of 1978). These projects
seek to utilize Guyana's land resources so that the country can fulfill its
role as the food supplier to the CARICOM while developing efficient livestock
and rice production systems.  However, the participation rate in the livestock
project fell considerably short of expectations because of inadequate insti-
tutions and inappropriate project design. The investment already made in the
agricultural development program in the Taoakuma Irriaation Project has raised
rice yields substantially, thus conrributina to irncreased export earnings.
In order to assess the potential in agriculture, a sector review was completed
in 1977 under the Bank/FAO Cooperative Program. The ongoing Tapakuma Irriga-
tion Project, the IDB-financed MMA Irrigation Project, and the Black Bush
Irrigation Project are designed to help utilize the country's agricultural
potential and increase both export earnings and rural household incomes. The
Upper Demerara Forestry Project in Central Guyana has been designed to increase
significantly the export earnings of the forestry sector by 1982. This
project, as well as the irrigation projects, which are devoted to export-
oriented production, require complementary investments in training and institu-
tional improvements. Assistance in these areas is being arranged under
programs financed by other bilateral and multilateral agencies. The Bank
Group has also arranged cofinancing for these projects from other external
aid agencies. The Forestry Project is cotinanced by che IBRD, EDF, EIB and
IDB, while the Black Bush Irrigation Project is financed by the IDA, TFAD,
IDB, and USAID. The Bank Group's lending strategy will continue to emphasize
increased production for exports, while continuing support for essential
infrastructural projects.
69.       The Bank has maintained a continuing dialogue with the Government
on its economic policies and development priorities. The policy measures for
economic recovery, as well as the new production-oriented investment program
adopted by the Government, are designed to correct imbalances in the economy.
In support of the policy measures and with a view to easing critical shortages
in investment resources, the Bank has helped organize a subgroup of donors
to coordinate aid to Guyana under the auspices of the Caribbean Group for
Cooperation in Economic Development. In addition, to support the Government's
overall investment program and to permit the import o£ inputs essential for
production and investment, the Bank Group provided a US$10 million Program Loan



- 33 -
(Ln. 1622, Cr. 853) to the Government in 1978. The objectives of the Program
Loan were achieved insofar as the adoption of stabilization measures were
concerned, but in the absence of improvements in bauxite/alumina and sugar
exports, the balance of payments difficulties persisted. The Program Per-
formance Audit Report (No. 3155 dated October 13, 1980) has suggested that
the solicitation of competitive bids should be confirmed by the Borrower
while applying for disbursement of loan funds. Such a procedure has been
instituted in the proposed loan (Schedule 1, para. C.1 of Joint Project
Agreement).
70.       Past Bank Group operations in Guyana have made it apparent that
institutional and management strengthening and staff training should receive
special emphasis in the design of investment projects.
71.       Future Bank Group activities in Guyana would support the struc-
tural transformation of the economy by reducing Guyana's dependence on
fuel imports and by promoting higher stages of processing of the country's
mineral, agricultural and forestry products.
72.       Bank Group financing accounts for about 8% of total external debt
outstanding and disbursed and about 4% of debt service. As of December 1980
the Bank Group's share of total external debt outstanding and disbursed
would be 11% and total debt service 5%.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between Guyana and the Bank, the draft
Development Credit Agreement between Guyana and the Association and the draft
Joint Project Agreement between the Bank of Guyana and the Bank and the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately along
with the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association. Special conditions of the loan and credit have been referred
to in Part IV and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreements of the Bank and the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loans and credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 12, 1981
Washington, D.C.



. 34 -                                             ANNEX I
Page I of S pages
GUYANA -- SOCLRL INDICATCIRS DATA SHEET
GUYANA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGCOTE  AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) al
TOTAL              215.0
AGRICULTURAL        13.8
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE IN'COME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960 bl      1970 b/   ESTIMATE         LATIN AMERICA & CAIRIBEAN            EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   210.0         340.0         560.0                 1384.1                     2381.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RYILIRAMS OF COAL RFOUV4LENT)       579.0       1093.0        1070.0                  1055.9                     1641.4
POPUILATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        0.56          0.72         0.82
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF
TOTAL)                              28.9          31.7         33.5                    63.4                       53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
.*                               POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)
STATIONARY POPULATIOR (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATEON IS REACHED
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            3.0           3.0          4.0                    28.1                       77.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULURCAL LAND         41.0          52.1         59.0                    S1.7                      129.5
-OPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              0.0          44.Z         41.6                    41.4                       30.6
15-64 YRS.                             50.2          52.5         54.8                    54.7                       61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       3.2           3.1           3.6                    3.9                        8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  2.8           2.3 _/       1.7 c/                  2.7                        1.6
URBAN                                   . .          3.4          3.0                     4.1                        3.3
CRIDE BIRTL   RATE (PER THOUSAND)       43.0          35.0         28.0                    34.e                       22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         10.0           8.0          7.0                     8.9                        8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   ..           2.8           1.7                    2.5                        1.5
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNAL (THOUOSANDS)           ..            ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)        ..            ..
GOOD AND NUTRITION
INDFX OP POOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=10C3 95.0                    9V.           99.0                   106.9                      113.1
PER CAPITA SUPP?. oF
CALORIES (PECES? v;
REQOIREMENTS)                   1033G         103.          LlG.i                  [07.4                       .X5.,
PROTEINS (GRA1MS PER CAY0           57.4         58.0          6L.0                    65.6                       91.;
OE WHIC[   ANIMAL AND PULSE       253C         30.C          26.C                    33.7                       39.F
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE   10.1'           5.V           4.0                     8.4                        0.:
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARSj    61.C            64.0         67.0                    63.1                       67.o
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ,          50.0                                  66.5                       55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE W?ATER (PERCENT OG
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..            ..                   65.9
URBAN                               ..           ..            ..                   80.4
RURAL                              ..            ..            ..                   44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(PERCENT OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               . .        93.0          96.1                   62.3
URBAN                               ..         95.0          99.0                    79.4
RURAL                               ..         92.0          94.1                   29.6
POPULATION PER P?IYSICIAN           8100.0       4310.C            ..                  1849.2                     1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       1730.0 e     1070.7         907.0                  1227.5                      929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           189.0 e/      010.0         206.0                  'S0.3                       289.7
URBAN                             54.0          70.G            .
RURAL                           1828.0       1401.0            ..                      .
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPI1AL BED             ..          37.0           ..                      ..                       17.0
HiOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              3.1           5.4
URBAN                              4.4
RURAL                              5.1
AVTAO>     NSAER 4? PU? :.S PEI :000.
*'R~BA                             1,            .  
RURAL
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT)
OF DWVELLINGS)
TOTAL
URBAN
RURAL                               .              ..                                   ..



Page ANNEX I
GUYANA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUYANA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGgTED AVlL'AS
-  OST RECENT ESTIMATE) 
1iOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EU11PE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                107.0        98.0       99.0                     99.7                     105.9
MALE                 107.0       100.0      100.0                    101.0                     109.3
FEMALE               106.0        96.0      98.0                     99.4                      103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 33.0        55.0       55.0                     34.4                      64.0
MALE                  36.0        55.0      55.0                      33.5                      71.1
FEMALE                30.0        56.0      56.0                      34.7                      56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (t OF SECONDARY)  14.0           5.1       5.2                     38.2                      28.8
P'PIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            41.0        29.0         ..                     30.5                      29.4
SECONDARY                          32.0        26.0         ..                     14.5                      26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          ..         91.3        ..                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         19.0        25.0       35.2                     43.0                      84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         66.0       113.0      340.0                    245.3                     192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..                     84.2                     118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND PCPULATION                  67.0         58.0     155.0                     63.3                      93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  8.0          11.0      10.9                       ..                       5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       173.0        204.0     265.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   22.5        23.5       25.0                     22.2                      30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              37.0         33.0      34.0                     37.1                      37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 29.0        42.0       48.0                     23.5                      29.3
PARTICIPATION RACE lPFRCENIJ
TOTAL                                31.0         28.8      30.6                     31.5                      40.9
MALE                                 48.0         44.1      46.3                     48.9                      55.9
FEMALE                               14.0         13.6      15.0                     14.0                      26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6          1.8       1.4                      1.4                       1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.8/f          .
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  46.5/f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.3/f
GLOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.6Jf
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     171.0                    474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     171.0                    332.5                     385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOWI ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic mean..  Coverage of countries
aon,g the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Jnless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for l1ost Recent EBtimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  Due to emigration, population growth race is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1972;  /a 1963;
If 1955-56, excluding self-employed in the high income bracket.
April, 1980



3b                                          ~~~~~ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DEFINITIdONS Of SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note:  Although  the data are dlraw  fre,  ouce  ge-esull   adged tAn .-Lt authoritative  3re telIijlo e,              hahas   rntdtistn    o   n   eis
natioally   omparble hneus  cc cn jac  of tanaadleeddefctc.nto  and  noneto asI in  .Ktcnnc n .t-,tnt 1  :-i n -c-  'v-otptTn by1a ,ct  en'
teaoso  unfalnodescibe oren  inaetde    ndct   eetd,oe  hnntroecrtt   n-                                          nnny
at the sat7ect  ounery  (eanayttot  Capital hapOon Oil ~xpoctts'~  groopaher  'Piddle Iccooe North AtethaAft   tcddleK East  Is threesth eca. e of.. t.enge
so so-ruearal aflelttet.  In te neferone grop daate  cegs  r   optea.wihe                       elbnehn   rn   u                   _a.ndcaoran  shwncltwena
leuttac.efth  cutrie   so a  roh  aL daa  i           thn       ..d.ae. har  the -cerag   nf ncuashnsd   aw1h.ing th ft  rtr  dpnso   h  saI iiyn
daaadi  nratom   nacic   as efdm  ed  nteafo    teaesohoeteietrena-te-.Tre   esa-eae  e   uauiI  nmaLn  tenau
Agrnutral     isiat  atagicltsafans  er  tepoatlyut  eranes,p                  ypcjtyn ce a-sa  Pes             " "I-alsondoto Iy.saucer atp            ,cicu
Pot cops,passtee,macht aa  hiehes  ardes orto le taicu;lOOPdata         mui mudPosuo grd,.ac nuses.pranccaltonss, cd nays trn uraos
- P                                                                                                                     11~~~~~~~~~~~~~On e a t r   y 2 b i E A j L J y i r. n y r .   u t -  Pt  u a c c   c r i
adtgi.pet aiu,n rlgsa.d hydro,rn ea  adgetera                                   0nc         nesr  nnpemaetpstfe    y      hsctn(a  hp ah-eital b-sannt
data.                                                                                .         lwdnd rna7atmddna -asittts.  Pt sanisis  parponeue-I                         hss
a                  OiPEi.AT~-dIOhelITLtAttig"1   - -  t_                                                            honpinal..s. tonal9-t.-   L--  or rorald.It1- b h-pi itsand mhd-ca  and   tedss  centers. L
Total Poulation,reid-tea   Iilon     -hoP. Jul  1;9thA, 197I, and 1975                coLuntnan or Prool-tlye -fd E bne  aue ah.ti. adsuato   to on -dihha..eL
data.                                                           fins hosyccals ~ ~~~dioLded hy the camber,oP h-ds
IrhanPopultion   orecrs ofcotulI -  at to,t uran tototalpepaitioi
dIfferent def lnsntaoo at urban areas wan afrent ramperasil sty of data  dOltIhSh,I
F'AmIONg AoNcrD   ;lt.  9h   n VI9A5_dora. ASeaas ti-nd oP ffnpsehid  parau   tehaseaf-tsi  arbs. aad rua-1
topuls la  trowotirn                                     A  osneaid snstas oia gou   at  ndindaslawiseshar  iin_g qa_tap
Outlatan  n yst  tti Curentyaplasos   ralctctu  re  wse  owlely              ad cairmai  arb60           bord19orloderAap  r myanr bIin_add  i
Tctai PpopuLiesia bdy- age and        ) un and L then  mrtn1t  aud  Peitttttt5.             tu_anrad  o  aoleialpryn
OroecearparmesnsformoralItoraes  ompis  cithre  enns  an-  ootatnabsrofreno d -nec              . ra - btotal arha. -sd tan-   ntgta
-u  lteb      rcenc.t  er         R-. -raso  fs n-u-try'  par nap.l.ita  foon               be  of persona pennant by: all urh-s  and turd          rpa          aton
It e,sdrmanlf   ronecyaai* ee    ttEtywa    hepr-                                          delln.rnsccey    rlisstcuenr-eara  srnoe    m
astrsfa  tescaorc,lo,n   hr   aea  suigdoiei                                             .anpe    at
__ctcycodsgoncs   int  s  ps  fml  p int'g pHiOUae.                                   AcSsINoG     lnrcsrrreto   allal-ttl   mn   a   aa
asd feecilicytands  tot projctIon purpnse .                                     ofnnl   narAw   ua d-ehledgo irapeetirel.h.                  L
sebrhrte tasua  t-selas   ae  an:amash   age    d                   19usar   Ls
ma In ooaceo -  Oio i  arberedasic  afe -e.lita  rea  ded leno tO             tdhoee    frtmet  at
nba repiwurmest be    of. urcne.e..         ucsn  ae  oh en~ each gen_       sia              h .. -hl       L        i      -   .
tn fr shn    L---cca,mt  sod fete-tros   caa,  am  n  ta
sie  a  be  reathod.                                ht-onLedery -   1                     C. I .c.nni .-  ttl   asadfmi      ntptde   hn;aodr
eneulasen aaaisn                                                                         sdnsttnnrqairi-c  leas  Pour yarn ofhpprand primay inssacnion
th.   I.-I Of -it   -P1ldlLi-L111,  h,,  -h                      M         Esso -ip 1o ti AoItLer   fae   nrspnwstuse    r   erai
hiyss,adr- io    A   er d .oela  presgs   fnd-hrPtO                                          en   o   adpaeee  at, neooodar  Ia-ar-ltrgeaf..ree.
"aIo 196-  1970. and                               -tf data                               Pupal-ter e raio-  rt            .. an  s'--'daY  - tonal stud- sets anale1I
Poclta   rriI    aelenal-ssl-Cne  groth  ate  ofL tota m11~_id-- primar  ad  aostdery- lrvf--s dinidod bynmbtefarbr-tnth
yer  optaros  ar19.-i  ishi-t. an  197-  h..cnrrampnni-g  enr-a
onu iti  d 161   97,- a p. .igyg data.                10    -                                .                t  .  ,      t..  .   Li..   .L t..frp
I.Li-;1960, 9     Pare-year9   d_rgsrda   a16,i7f,dd.ndntoiaaPrptawn   oaein   Al  types of  ecivrsfo  rd
Lami Inti hnsin -Eosprcaofmtldrme..) S-theostag  of marrie                                 cop-asni-esdabolished 1 Irenet-it.
women. of rhldbeaiu  age lit-i   yer)ooae  tt-oe    detrs  o                                   . feeier Ir-erg ehfsn t er. aran d     -  p p. . twodeer  PerL br-dene
alld  marriet  omnIssm  wg  grAn.                                                            an1rtIpbio prbbasadph.ietp;-srldh a..nn.e.. tdnla
Uz~~ ~~ Ith  - -l..i d-h. p-  th--d  fMcnearr Clsaletns.(ee thawas rapru.ietan-  -...  Show  the amag i                                           irralt -
in onratener per bets - A--   dttesn- er  primary-     ad  len. eama1irny-hse.
h;,   'Zd'. ty. p- Ld if  h. _p-i ..... p~ ...alhR-'dily" if ithapama   on  fa   ie   ws
tea ens earlad~~~~~f -  Aggregate pradursias or eacht nearery iw..f L ..  bwwe-d-en
Per JLtr - a-.;    at. onlyatlam. le rnegs c  ramirag enrs -90  C1  par7 frm                 s  mb   l    nis
roars  ddchnesi   arr.Lespllaenae  en)fe,ras                                       re   ffrrts end          L uneplye  bar.'ar-adi     boueee   naee,ec
ciyan(Iatttnidra   em4ie-menh. te-erasre--bod  adcgbns  age                         yTVl (p- nnern P-  Pemt ..h.      e  oe Ve        I p ...ntg  at- tota  labort ts.
FOT) NT)NwTRTld bert;19.-h,.9,  nd  97  dta                                                   tsng pereag   rttoa  labor. far.tce190 J                 97i and 19T  dat."
Ilet. Farld ar-i. .y           C.ta  Irm perdar    -       troercner   fprc pt              rutr.rrea   - labor tame lu mining,l:  Sn h-utia  man. ta-a- i
nsiesas  fa  st  asnria   stalihe   hp  .Pfpoedatodnsdn Itlan  llp dta
aliaanc  of60  eawsat  ata  trC_ l  perda  wd 0 gram   atd fsnd  ad              oarstitenan d.oer irenesiyt -        --dotni . t. sa-eml  -         . Pa _nioirdat
puw    rri,o  h.o  10 gras. abd   ha.i onema  pentei.    Trrstn-                 alcyamaaecmptda  tonal,                          mal, .ed feal tanfrea
aI'd aIltrtiasaanrg  for 1)L,   P1dthe. wold  prhp-d-r,  PAd-g,                             MMtettd   90   90,aElO   daa.Tre  ncIls   patiata   rats  efecia
i.old  on  _Suny  i9d- rLt_ 1970 tan    19771dwt, a1e-ra7ru0uaatsh-oylats,no9ln7t8mten,d-eaesi
Per capita reassia marply Pram anImal and ruiaa  - frotetm  wuppip of toad da-~~~~-p.td f~.  ..   ..bl. .it.
tries data dderIved  tam  lIfettablew;i19b0  1970.end.1977 dat-bllCa                                                                                   1960Is197gitld
stEAlTh                                                                                   Pecentage ohP..na.sincome (boh-istnewIlad Atadihtamnatendby8rintea
tisI'dtac  at gith- lese              _  Amrg  saeroefer  cr  Ir  Faanig                     9pecnt1thet7  pe s.b   porten  iipren,ad  or  tOb p- rr
anhst;  9h. 19061ad6IO   data.                                                     of197  .thgta1unebo190ld9s."Ji8'd.
Isfar c.irsaitn asr Irr thusan) -  oste  deth F-t.  -ot-oe   une   fs ea        oiOnh115f11 ObOd
cfaepe 2huan   ie.a.P                                                           ltnrd  hnot  aet,.rmrln    00 oLeba-    ahead aa 
emmano Sfe cter reerat c  pouaIo)-ata,dba,adrua                                         -Aslt p..rr-  ir.             f_.rne  ts thttnnei     ealtln   hchnwiis
-ase i :peple (total, other,aed tarel rith  im nhi   ces  rst dnatrlsiona.                  -     .-SLydnaede  pu    aeta   ton-is 1 r1uiebn-   ta- oat0
eater     1 "appi IItoue  rrrard  srf ce otrr  orI areted hut asonanae                      afodal t-m         ---dg.             ...t.-
asesc  as tha  tram prnsredborhoan  aprnge  en1wa9ar70i a-atmnd 1e9tt8  Pror  are edlt;e res)-aba   m   aa 
tossi  o   tad-    a  irtgPntmae             P_s 700 meer f2   mh0    s    pb               perenal  sroe    of the )oa It ll rhar lea   adege   rm  h    aa
nosnid-re   ca ben  oshir 1 reaonbl  srres ci tha  hus. Ishara   areaspti
remahaacs   ol   ml   httehawng   rmetno   h   oabl                                    ee s"h   djstentarhihe  nm  of                   A linig  i   arbasa fsee,
.doLarbaetospn  atdarpnrinnrr7 ar  ci thi day1.LL is                  2 f gtnshi  thi    -atneted taLatdrn -slo_    baniut toet  serlni rret. 
tancy'a  ate  sees,                                                               ad rral    Perentnt ppalatoslathsYanSeOalL  he ae  'bshite rot'
a~-nsarttrrte sarsal6etcnc5     nrec7         c.neae  uhLsas,
rural   nuerotpan~~lst5otat,u~~~an   andturuttsAirirdtironrere
amterrtldsa    dhlraetn   pe7oulaclons7 -  cacr1ra diet                                                               OcoaTh-   an-     aa   aaDvso
prel  ay"Selor tincolenia  ad dapaa, athor  itou  stacer,                               h'solPA.,       pM  LsadPrjetidaAn          f lrareti
ofhP    eeceaao    ar-ar   oace-oo    ycn  on.i   thppl umf                                                                                April LIlg
licy.tdr  and s.inei   fodsea-Ltatl           rdoc1616s    90   d197"



- 37 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 papas
SUYANA: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
'In Millions of US DdLta-r)
AVERAGE ANNUAL
ACTUAl             Ilatiate           ~~~~~~~~~~~GROWTh RATE.         ACTUAL
1974       1975        1976      1977        1978       1979                1976-79            1977        1978       1979
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                                  Constan   1977 US$ miLlion                                                       As percentage of GDP
Gross Domatic Product                             414.4       441.0      461.7      437.8       438.9      425.9                -0.9              100.0      100.0       100.c
Gains from Te-s of Trade                         30.8        34.4       -2.8          -      -24.4      -53.9                   .                  -        -5.6      -12.7
Gross Domastic Income                           445.2       475.4      458.9      437.8      414.5       372.0                -5.9              100.0       94.4       87.3
Imports (including NFS)                           318.5       417.7      442.0      347.5  2R3.9           257.1               -12.9               79.4   66 .1          60.4
Esports (import rapacity)                         332.5       421.1      }22.2      775.7       791.3      225.0               -14.2               63.'       66.4        53.'
Gon-suptio-                                       321.3       3?7.C      325.5      546.1      527.2       3C5. _7               0.8               SR.2        75.        72.5
lorestoent                                        159.9       145.0     1;7.7       123.5       84.1        9.5                -10.6       28.7               15.1       21.
Domestic Saviogs                                  123.9       148.4       4.4        51.7        55.5       63.2               -19.4               1i.P       19.4        14.8
Notional S-oiogs                                   9.'7        9'25.'                                       40.5               -26.5                5.9       13.6         ?.5
MERCY4 NDISE DTiRsu                                                         Crrennt  455 million                                                    As pe-centsge of :ots
Dmpar to
Cansum.er Coods                                  47.9        55.9       64.R       56.1       51.4        57.8                 o.8               17.8       13.4       1o.2
Intermediate Goods (e-cl. soels)                 93.1      11-.5 .      2..        93.:       98.4      110.5                -1.8                31.1       35.3       34.
'orls and Labricents                             46.2        57.-       53.        6'2.       66.7        95.2                12.C               19.9       23.'       28.L
Capital Goods                                    65.2      19f          .s         9p.-       60.1'      57.2                -15.2               28.2       21.6       10.7
Misceilso.1 as                                    i.4         1.         3.5        9_         2.          I.                  1.3                3.C        7.'        2.6
Total Merch. Imports icif) 254.4                           344.1       363.6      315.       798.0      317.6                 -2.7              15.7'      155.5      1247 
Exports
Sugan                                           127.6      162.0         1.5        2.         2.        S.                 -14.0                28.1       31.1        2.7
Rice                                             22.0       33.3                   26.2       37.6        31.7                -1.2               10.1       12.7       i1.f
Calcined Bauxite                                 56.5       63.9        74.7       8.5 79.1              RS.P                  7.6               32.0       56.5       29.2
Dried Beuxite                                    12.3        16.2       13.7       16.2       18.9       21.5                  7.3                6.2        6.4        7.C
Aluimns                                          21.1        26.6       25.3       30,'       32.2       21.1                 -5.7               11.9       10.9
Other                                            3C.7  6'     .3        35..-        '         5.        45.2               -10.4                117        i2.1       '3.-
Total M-erh. E.ports tIf,                       230.2      56'b.4      2.i                              273.'                 -5.7              12.r      1^,.C       10.
Soads and NFS Trade Indices                                                  1927 7   5'
Report Price Index                               85.7        57.7       9C.4      16. 39.4              i08.t
Depart Price Index                               77.8       3G9.7       31.2      1/35.'     107.7      136.5
Terms of Trade lndex                            110.2      12,5.9       99.1      i00.'       92.3       79.7
Consumer Price Index                                7&.3       35.0       9C.3      11041
VALLD.ADDED BY SEr.OR                                    ANNUAL DATA AT 1977 PR8C1S A.s  EXCHA3NL RAIL
Agriculture                                        94.1        94.7       06.7 /      2.4       91.0        32.9               -0 '.2               j.        23._        _.
Industry                                           42.C       .5.3        52.1       48.2       43.8        45.a                  -                12.2       12.2       12.7
(inintg                                             73.7      '3.7        A5'5       34.3        32.7       55.3                -..                18.2       15.'       14.2
Services                                          169.-2 01.F             '.0       221.8      191.4       i01.0                -1.3               50.2       43.7       52.
Total GDP at Sactar Cast                        379.6      451         952        756.5      592.0      376.1                -1.9               2Q.'       1777       275,
PUBLIC FIN'ANCE                                                 .41NLNAL DATA A? GURRENT LS :1ILLICH                                               As porcan-tgo of .Di
(Central Go -ernment)
Curreot Recoipt-                                   36.5      195.2       152.9      140.4      143.5      155.4                                    32.1       29.1       51.2
Correct Expenditures                              111.9       178a.4     172.3      :62.7                 194.3                                    37.2       35.7       22.4
Current Surplus                       ;            24.9        66.       -26.1                            -38.9                                     5.1       -4.;        -2
Central Govt. Capital zapenditure-                 4^.7       172.       :                                  4563.9                                 11.5        "         12.
,Overall Deficit, Central Govt.                    -17."      -58,      -102.2                            -102.7                                  -16.6      -13.  -1 .5
Cspital Expe-diture, Public Sector                  ...        ... .      . r                              110.7                                   76.0       52."       7'.
DETAIL OF PUBLIC SECTCR
INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND FINANCING                              As oecc.soo of 7
Agriculture, Forestry sod Fishing                               31.9
Mining and Qu-rrying                                            24.3                 14.2
M-anufactunig acd Processing
Other                                                           43.e
Total ixpeddttres.
Fin-naig
Public Sectar Isoongs                                           *f
Eiternal j aurces b i             D.' .                                            52,6
Othir                                                         72.5 .7.
total Financing                 .7'-.
-/ Including  tr-osiers to the rest of the  oblic .sctor.
-/ Includes extern-l gronts.
Npvembrer 1988,



ANNEX I
- 38 -                                                   Page 5 of
BALANCE OF PAYEnTSI. EXTERNAL CAPITAL ANiD DEBT
(million uS4 at current prices)
b/
Actual                              Estimate            Projected
1975      1976       1977       1978        1979          1980         1981    1982    1983
Balance of Payments
Exports of Goods and NFS                              377.7      294.3      275.7      313.7       306.7         389          479      556      643
Imports of Goods and NFS                              374.7      403.1      347.5      312.2       350.0         463          551      631      718
Resource Balance                                     3.0    -108.8       '71.8        1.5       -44.3         -74          -72      -75     -75
Net Transfers and Factor Services                     -17.8      -28.4      -25.1      -29.0       -27.8         -38          -35      -35      -35
Current Account Balance                            -14.8    -137.2       -97.6      -27.5       -72.1        -112         -107    -110    -110
Net Public Disbursements                               49.3       88.7       35.3       39.6        22.0          39          101      100      107
Gross Disbursements                                (55.4)   (107.5)    (59.2)   (100.47        (131.4)        (95)        (157)   (147)   (149)
Amortization                                       (-6.1)    (18.8)    (23.9)    (60.8)   (-109.4)           (-56)        (-56)   (-47)   (-42)
a/
Banking System                                          5.0       -          -          -           -            -10          -10       -        -
Other Capital                                           3.3      -43.2        0.4        7.9        -3.3          11           12       14       16
Capital Account Balance                                57.6       45.5       35.7       47.5        18.7          40          105      114     123
Overall Balance                                       +42.8      -91.7      -61.9      +20.0       -53.4         -72          - 2       +4     +i3
Change in Net Reserves(-=increase)                    -42.8       91.7       61.9      -20.0        53.4          72           +2       -4      -13
Memorandum Items
IMF Drawings (net)                                  -          -          -          17.5        12.0          30.0        [7       15       -
Change in Commercial Arrears                        -          -          32.5      -10.2        4.7           10.0        -10     -ID       -5
Change in Other Short-Term Liabilities             n.a.        14.1       16.3       10.2         4.7          23.5        -10        -       -
Gross International Reserves at Year End           124,7       47.1       34.0       71.5        39.5          31.0         56      65       73
As Months of Imports                                 3.7        1.6        0.2        2.5         1.0           0.7          1.1     11       1.1
Actual
1974      1975       1976       1977        1978          1979
Gross Disbursements of Public and
Publicly Guaranteed M&LT Loans                             34.2      94.6       70.0       43.9        57.4          96.u
IBRD/IDA                                                5.7        5.9        3.9        3.6        10.3          16.0
Official Export Credits                                 2.3        8.5       11.3        9.2         5.8          -
Other Multilateral                                     -          -          -           1.2         3.5          13.2
Bilateral                                              23.3       43.6       26.7       17.1        25.6          24.4
Private Source                                          2.8       36.7       28.2       12.9        12.2          42.4
Total Public and Publicly Guaranteed
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                            204.4     291.4      362.6      397.7       427.5         467.0
IBRD                                                   10.1       15,4       18.6       20.1        25.3          34,4
Other                                                 191.5      239.3      315.8      364.7       390.0         390.2
Private Source                                          2.8       36.7       28.2       12.9        12.2          42.4
Undisbursed                                               142.3     106.8       95.7       82.7       223.3         252.3
Debt Service
Total Debt Service Payments                            13.2       16.1       32.9       32.7        50.0          90.5
Interest                                            (8.0)      (9.6)    (19.5)    (15.1)        (17.2)        (24.6)
Payments as % of Exports & NFS                          4.5        4.3       11.2       11.9        15.9          29.5
Paymen,ts as % of GDP                                   3.5        3.4        7.4        7.5        10.1          17.4
IBRD/IDA Exposure
IBRD DOD/Total DOD (7.)                                 4.9        5.3        5.1        5.1         5.9           7.4
IBRD Disbursements/Total Gross Disbursements (%)   16.7            6.2        5.6        8.2        17.9          16.7
IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                    5.3        7.1        4.0        6.4         4.8           3.1
Projected Price Indices for Major Exports (1979=100)
1980    1981    1982    1983
Sugar                 132.6   129.2   127.2   139.7
Rice                  117.2   126.3   139.7   151.6
Bauxite/Alumina       112.9   122.0   133.2   144.3
a/  Bilateral loan to Central Bank of Guyana.
b/ Based on achievement of export targets specified in paragraph 15.
December 1980



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUYANA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of November 30, 1980)
Loan or                                                    -------- US$ Million --------
Credit                                                     Amount (or Less Cancellation)
No.     Year   Borrower          Purpose                 Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
Six loans and three credits fully disbursed
(Loans 285, 559, 583, 765, 875 and 1622; and
Credits 139, 221 and 853)                                  24.9       10.2            -
301      1972   Guyana       Highway                                  4.3          0.1
1016      1974   Guyana       Tapakuma Irrigation          12.9                     0.7
1106/544  1975   Guyana       Education II                  8.0        4.0          8.8
820      1978   Guyana       Black Bush Irrigation                   10.0          9.7
1623      178   Guyana        Forestry                     10.0                     8.4
1906 1/   1980   Guyana       Technical Assistance
for Power                   8.0        _            8.0
Total (net of cancellations)               63.8       28.6         35.7
of which haE been repaid                    3.5        0.1
Total now outstanding                      60.3       28.5
Amount sold                     0.8
of which has been repaid        0.8
Total now held by Bank
and IDA /2                               60.3       28.5
Total undisbursed                          25.2       10.5         35.7
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of November 30, 1980)
Investment  Fiscal              Type of                         Total Held        Total
Number     Year   Obligor  Business  Equity  Loan  Total    by IFC          Undisbursed
437 GUA      1979  Industrial Gas           -      2.0   2.0        2.0            0
Domestic    Domestic
and       Stoves
Electrical
Appliances
Ltd. (IDEAL)



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3 pages
C.   Projects in Execution /1
Cr. No. 301 Highway Project: US$4.4 Million Credit of April 26, 1972
Effective Date:  November 15, 1972
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project has been completed. Disbursement of the balance of
about US$34,000 remaining in the credit will be completed upon receipt of the
final withdrawal application from the Borrower.
Ln. No. 875 2 Power Project: US$6.0 Million Loan of January 12, 1973
Effective Date: May 8, 1973
Closing Date: June 29, 1979
This project for which cofinancing has been provided by UK-ODM, CDB,
CIDA and the Bank encountered delays in implementation and cost overruns of
about 36%. Difficult relations between project consultants and the Borrower
resulted in a 98% increase in the engineering cost. The Bank reallocated its
loan to meet the increased engineering costs and the ODM and CIDA contributed
a larger share of the equipment and construction costs.  The project is
completed except for construction of a transmission line being funded by a
US$6.9 million loan from the CDB.  GEC continues to have financial and manage-
ment problems which adversely affect project execution.
Ln. No. 1016  Tapakuma Irrigation Project:  US$12.9 Million Loan of June 25, 1974
Effective Date: May 27, 1975
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is about 36 months behind schedule due to delays in
contracting consultant services, scarcity of local professional staff and
counterpart funds and the need for additional studies. Civil works for the
Tapakuma and Somerset-Berks irrigation and drainage works and roads are about
75% completed, and will be finished by June 1981. This contract covers about
80% of the project area. The recently awarded civil works contract for the
remaining of the area is expected to be completed by December 1982. Cost of
civil works for the project has increased about 190% over the appraisal esti-
mate, mainly due to price increases. With the assistance of the Bank, additional
external financing to meet substantially the cost overrun was obtained from the
OPEC Special Fund (US$4.0 million), CDB (US$4.0 million) and UKODM (US$5.7
million). The agricultural development phase of the project is progressing and
applied research and seed production programs are proceeding well. The applied
research and extension services provided by the project contributed to yields
which were the highest in the country. A program for extension training is
helping to resolve the scarcity of local agricultural staff, as well as serve
as a model for extension activities throughout the country.
/1   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of the strengths and
weaknesses of project execution.
/2   Though the Bank loan has been fully disbursed, the transmission line
component is still under execution.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3 pages
Ln. No. 1106  Second Education Project:  US$12.0 million of May 9, 1975
Cr. No. 544   Effective Date:  July 8, 1975
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Execution of the project is about 42 months behind schedule due to
delays in fulfilling the effectiveness conditions, subsequent delays in the
award of contracts for civil works items and a shortage of local currency
resources. The manpower study has been completed and the Caribbean Animal
Technical Training Center is under operation. Construction of the first
phase of the project, which consists of 11 institutions, is under way.
Cr. No. 820 Black Bush Irrigation Project: US$10.0 Million of December 4, 1978
Effective Date: April 3, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This project, which is cofinanced by IFAD, USAID and IDB is about
20 months behind the schedule set in the Staff Appraisal Report, mainly because
of delays in securing the financial package for the project and the Government's
inability to meet all loan and credit conditions for project effectiveness. The
consultants have been working on the project since May 1980. A substantial cost
overrun is expected due to price increases since appraisal of the project in 1977.
Ln. No. 1623 Upper Demerara Forestry Project: US$10.0 Million of December 4, 1978
Effective Date: May 31, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project, which is cofinanced by EDF, EIB, EDB and IBRD, has begun
procurement of immediate purchase item and supervision of construction services
has started. The immediate purchase portion of the power plant equipment has
been installed. Procurement of total logging and transport equipment, sawmill
and power plant is practically concluded. Construction of the contracted
housing has begun and clearing for township roads is near completion. The main
project access road, while not completed, provides easy access to the sight.
The scarcity of local managerial staff may pose problems for the execution of
the project. As a substantial cost overrun on the project appears likely,
discussions are now underway to review the cope of project works and arrange-
ments for additional financing.



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page I of g
GUYANA
LOAN AND CREDIT FOR STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN/CREDIT DATA SHEET
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Loan Request Made to Bank:                 April 1979
(b)  Appraisal and Post-Appraisal Missions:  August/November 1979
and May/June 1980
(c)  Completion of Negotiations:                December 5, 1980
(d)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:             February 27, 1981
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  The effectiveness of the loan and credit would bi conditional upon
the conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
of Guyana and the Bank of Guyana for on-lending the amount earmarked
for the EDF (para 59).
(b) Disbursement of the second tranche of US$7.0 million of the loan and
credit would be contingent on the Bank being satisfied with the
progress made in carrying out the overall economic program (para 59j.
(c) The findings of studies on electricity and transportation tariffs
will be reviewed with the Bank in the first quarter of 1981.
Electricity tariffs would be adjusted to a level required to
w                    eliminate cash deficit in the Guyana Electricity Corporation by
July 1981 (para 53).
(d) The ongoing study on the effectiveness of input subsidies for rice
growers and farmgate prices for rice will be reviewed with the Bank
prior to September 30, 1981 with a view fo adopting a system of
periodic adjustment of input and output prices (para 53).
(e) The local counterpart funds generated by disbursement of the credit
and loan (other than the allocation to the Export Development Fund)
would be deposited in a special account in the Bank of Guyana and
utilized to finance local currency requirements of projects in the
1980-82 public sector investment program (para 58).



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f)  Detailed annual investment levels and financing plans for the
1981-82 investment program would be agreed with the Bank. Substan-
tive changes in its composition would be reviewed with Bank staff
every quarter until December 31, 1982 (para 56).
(g) The accounts relating to the loan and credit, as well as the accounts
relating to the counterpart funds, would be audited by independent
auditors and the audit report would be submitted to the Bank (para 60).
(h) A progress report on the elaboration of the Guyana investment code
would be provided to the Bank by September 30, 1981 (para 56).
(i) A report on the Government's program to mobilize domestic resources
would be submitted to the Bank by March 31, 1981 (para 57).
(j) An Export Development Fund would be established with policies and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank of Guyana would
assign four qualified full-time staff assigned to the EDF so as
to ensure that the EDF becomes operational prior to February 28.
i981.  The Bank of Guyana would provide foreign excnange to meet
the import needs of manufacturers. Quarterly reports on the
activities of the EDF would be sent to the Bank commencing'April
1981 until the last quarter of 1983 (para 52).
(k)  The Export Unit would be operated with a sufficient number of staff
members no later than March 31, 1981 (para 52).



ANNEX IV
~ 44          ~           PaRe 1 of 13
DATI -aIMVJIS7TY OF FINANCE,
s   ,                     k  !                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.O0 Bo:x 757.
.; AN.) z.                           Main & Urqulhart St;,cets,
1          X  :F                        L'?)~~~~~~~~~~~~~crgl/0; n,
Guyana.
/ /
Dear Mr, McNamara:
The Government of Guyana is committed to the establishment of
co-operative socialism, an income distribution that permits the satisfaction
of basic human needs and the continuing creation of new employment
opportunities through increased levels of public and private investment
and the fullest possible development of human resources. The
Government is equally committed to an income distributional profile
that is consistent with its social objectives and with the level of
morale on which the programmes are based. Within this framework, the
development strategy aims at reducing the country's vulnerability to
fluctuations in international prices and demand and at creating higher
employment opportunities through the expansion and diversification of
exports and the development of efficient import substitution, and at
achieving self-sufficiency in food and producing surpluses for regional
consumption.
2.      The structural changes associated with this development effort
will require considerable investment for their achievement. In the
phasing of the processes by which changes in the structure will be
effected, priority will be given to the restoration of activities to
their former levels and to the fuller utilization of capital investments
already made in Guyana. Even the achievement of this limited and more
immediate target will require substantial assistance in the short-term
to sustain living standards, which have been affected, in part, by
substantial declines in the terms of trade.
30      For the longer term, the major elements of structural change on
which attention will be focused in this letter are itemized as follows:
(a) A sharp expansion in the production base to include in
the longer run the smelting of aluminium using local
supply of hydroelectric power.
(b) Sustained growth in the intermediate period and thereafter
in the production of agricultural commodities, of mining
output, of fishing and forestry products, and of non-
traditional manufacturers leading to a consequential
reduction in the relative importance of service sectors
by simultaneous restraint in the rate of growth of
services in the government sector.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 13
(c) Diversification if the output of the productive sectors
by the introduction of new activities and by the increased
processing of tne products at present produced as raw
materials, such as timber, ground provisions, etc.
(d)  Substitution of the present huge imports of fossil fuels
by the eventual installation of hydroelectric power as
indicated above but also by the use of a wide range of
measures to utilize more efficiently the existing
availability of local and imported sources of energy.
(e) AS a derivative of the above approaches, the dependence
on external sources of supply will be reduced. In addition
to the expansion of exports from the growth in production,
the reduced dependence on fuel imports will lead to an
improvement in the external balance and to a reduction
in the gap on current account of the balance of payments
to proportions that are more manageable in terms of their
financing needs.
40      In order to proceed with the programme of structural adjustment
as outlined above, the Government is committed to the removal of a number
of pressing constraints. These relate, at first, to the critical balance
of payments weakness which has affected the economy very severely in
recent years. The second is the wide range of allocational inefficiencies
reflected in prices and tariffs that are in evident need of adjustment.
The third is the inadequate spatial distribution of activities t:.at leads
to inefficiency in production and to an imbalance between urban, rural and
hinterland areas. The fourth is the weakness in systems of management
that are required for smooth co-ordination of structural changes and the
shortage of skills necessary for the development and administration of
public and private enterprises.
Growth. Develonment and Diversification Programmes
5.      In pursuit of its objectives, the Government has already begun
to broaden the land base for meeting the food needs of the people of
Guyana and of the CARICOM region, as well as for exports to other parts
of the world, by embarking on an investment programme for draining and
irrigation large areas of agricultural land. Some of the schemes such
as the Tapakuma Irrigation Project, the Mahaica-Mahaicony-Abary Scheme
and the Black Bush Polder Expansion Project are largely externally
financed, However, a large part of the development effort of Guyana is
devoted to supplementing the investment in the larger schemes by smaller
scale projects in these and in other areas which are equally important
both in terms of their production potential and of their contribution
to maintaining spatial balance and the desirable spread in income.
60      In recent years, a start has also been made to diversify production
activities to include the manufacture of commodities which can be made
from local raw materials. A glass factory, a tannery and boot and shoe
factory are now in the final stages of completion and a textile mill has
only very recently commenced operations. In the instances such as textiles



ANNEX IV
- 46 -                         Page 3 of 13
and tannery, the raw material inputs are not available in adequate
amounts from local sources even though it is patently obvious that
the potential for an abundance of local supply exists and even though,
in fact, such supply used to be available locally in adequate amounts.
The development programme in the major water control schemes as well as
in the other areas is associated with the provision of raw materials
for those factories.
7.      Investments in the forestry and fishing sectors have been recently
undertaken to increase their exploitative efficiency for the provision of
raw materials for export as well as for additional processing locally.
A World Bank financed timber extraction and sawmilling project is now
under construction and should be completed in early 1982. The Inter-
American Development Bank has recently agreed to finance the expansion
of public sector shrimping and fishing fleets as well as to contribute
to higher rates of investment by arteganal fishermen. Quite considerable
Txpai.vat sector activity in forestry extraction and sawmilling has recently
been stimu ated with the assistance of Government-sponsored external
finance primarily from Canada. The Government will be initiating studies
in forestry planning systems during 1981 for improving the efficiency of
extraction. In addition, private sector operations for the processing of
wood are being developed. This includes a plant for the manufacture of
plywood which has recently been completed and a veneer plant which is in
an advanced planning stage.
80      Further production diversification is already under way with a
private sector investment in assembly operations to make refrigerators
and stoves. The finance of this operation has benefitted from assistance
by the International Finance Corporation, which is also giving consideration
to another project for the finishing of imported textiles. These activities
have considerable potential for providing employment and for teaching
managerial skills even though their more technological links with the rest
of the economy are still minimal. It will be the task of the development
process to increase such links by mechanisms established for the transfer
of such technology and for its development by institutions as the Institute
of Applied Science and Technology which has already been established by the
Government and which has already embarked on programmes for indigenizing
the technology associated with local manufacturing processes.
9.      The establishment of the Institute of Applied Science and Technology
and its parent body the National Science Research Council are not the only
instances of the extreme importance which the Government places on technology
transfer and development.  In relation to agriculture, the Goverrment has
already hired with the assistance of U.S.A.I.D. the services of IRI Research
Institute to identify and correct key factors limiting rice production
through analysis of such variables as variety selection, soil fertility,
water management, and pest and disease control in the Black Bush area.
The approach of intensive investigative research which will be applied
in this instance to the cultivation of rice in the Black Bush area will
be extended to other crops on which the diversification programme rests -
cassava, legumes, peanuts, sorghum, cotton, corn, pineapple and other
tropical fruits. This support to improving the technology for the



AbNEX IV
- 47 -                         PaRe 4 of 13
development of these agriculture activities will contribute at one and
the same time to the diversification of the production structure, to the
geographical spread of activities, to the improvement of incomes in rural
and hinterland areas, to the provision of higher nutritional standards and
therefore to the most basic and fundamental aspect of the delivery of
health care, and also to the increased potential for higher added values
by providing a wider and more varied supply of raw materials for processing
and packaging for the local, CARICOM and extra regional markets.
Basic Needs Strategy
10.      A key feature of the Government's economic programme is to meet
the basic needs of the people. Since the beginning of the nineteen seventies,
the Government has pursued a policy of self-reliance as a means of meeting
basic needs and has accordingly sought to give protection to the growth and
diversification of local agriculture by the use of an external commercial
policy that placed restraints on the importation of foods that could be
grown locally or that could be efficiently replaced by local production
either in terms of taste or nutrition. Emphasis was laid in this approach
on the provision of nutritional requirements from the production of food
with high protein values and the stimulus was thus provided for rapid
growth in the production of fresh fish and fish products (including
salted fish), lentils and fresh local fruit to replace canned meat and canned
fish, apples and grapes which are no longer imported.
11.      The approach to meeting basic needs by greater self-reliance has,
however, to be seen in the context of an export-oriented production structure
in which the value of exports will average some 7C70 of total output in the
period 1977 to 1980. In this context, growth in exports in the medium term
relies heavily on the recovery of production in the traditional commodities
of bauxite/alumina, sugar and rice. The export targets associated with the
growth projections of the economy are summarized as follows:
------------- Merchandise ExportsÖ
Actual   Estimate          Targets
1979      1980      1981    1982       1983
Sugar ('000 tons.)                     265        260      280      300       310
Calcined Bauxite ('000 tons.)          542       625       750      800       860
Dried Bauxite ('000 tons.)           1,004       900    1,000   1,100       1,200
Alumina ('000 tons.)                   151       225       290     310        330
Rice                                    84        80       108     126        136
Timber ('000 cu. ft.)                1,630     1,720    2,000   2,400       3,000
Shrimp and Fish ('000 lbs.)            550       600       749   1,100      1,500
Malasses ('000 gallons)                 14.6       15.1     16.4    17.4       17.8
Rum ('000 gallons)                       2.9        3.2      3.8      4.1       4.4
Nontraditional
Manufactures (in 1979 GS
million)               46         26       51       55         60



ANNEX IV
_48-                         Page 5 of 13
12.      The measures associated with these production increases are varied
and include approaches to raise productivity as well as productive capacity
in the agricultural and mining activities, to infuse foreign exchange for
the purchase of raw materials and spare parts for all sectors including the
manufacturing sector, to process a wider variety of agricultural raw materials
for the export market and to restore a reliable supply of electricity frox
the Guyana Electricity Corporation.
130      Some of the specific steps for achieving the increases have already
been taken and the growth in the medium term will depend on their
intensification. In relation to the production targets as itemized above,
the more important of these measures are as follows:
(a)  Sugar:       The industry has faced over the last decade a
continuous decline in yields which has resulted
primarily from the need to replant some one-third
of acreages with varieties that are resistant to
smut and rust diseases but which are lower yielding
in sucrose content. The industry has had
correspondingly to increase to 22%o the proportion
of acreages to be replanted each year and to
intensify husbandry practices.  It is estimated
that these measures would raise yields from their
present average of 2.2 tons of sugar per acre by
200 by 1983,
(b)  Rice:        Acreages will be expanded by between 7$ and lO/4
by the execution of the schemes itemized (see
paragraph 5)X It is also expected that yields
will increase by about 5c1 during the 1980-81
period and by some 3% each year during the
remaining years of the period for which
projections have been made. A combination of
measures would be associated with this effort.
As indicated in paragraph 21, prices will be
adjusted to provide incentives to farmers,
control of water and supplies of inputs would
be improved, and extension services will be
intensified to train farmers in the application
of improved methods and to encourage better
husbandry practices (see paragraphs 5, 9 and 21).
(c)   Malasses:    Production is linked primarily with that of
sugar.
(d)  Rum:         Although, like molasses, the production of rum
depends on that of sugar, the export of rum will
depend on maintaining competitiveness in the
bulk delivery of rum. in the Western European and
Canadian markets.



ANNEX IV
- 49 -                              Page 6 of 13
(e)   Shrimp:       As indicated in paragraph 7, investment in
shrimping vessels is being undertaken to raise
the fleet of the Government-owned company from
18 boats to about 5 boats and incentive payments
have recently been introduced to raise the average
annual catch per boat from 26.000 pounds in 1980
to almost 45.000 pounds by 1983.
(f)   Timber:       With the investment of a timber extraction and saw-
milling facility partly financed by the World Bank,
the improvements in planning and executing forestry
extraction processes and the installation of wood
curing and drying facilities (see paragraph 7), it
is expected that output of timber would increase
by about 60% by 1983. Considerable attention has
to be given to simultaneous planning of production
and marketing. (See paragraph 26).
(g)   Bauxite      There are several approaches currently being
Alumina:     undertaken to raise output in this industry.
An American firm has been hired by the Guyana
Mining Enterprise to strip overburden from the
open cast bauxite mines and to increase the lead
of stripping over extraction so that the extraction
rate can be accelerated. Similarly the bauxite
entity has undertaken to contract technical                --
assistance for improving the processing facilities
of its alumina plant. This improvement will not
only sustain the alumina output level at present
capacity but will permit its increase by 120o to
15% over the projected period. Technical
assistance has also been secured to increase the
overall availability of mobile equipment. For
example, it is expected that, by 1983, it will
be possible to double the proportion of equipment
availability of the machines removing overburden
from the mines. The company is undergoing a
programme of rehabilitating its processing plants
which have been run down in recent years for
want of spare parts and has undertaken separate
arrangements in order to ensure the replenishment
of its inventories. In addition, incentive
schemes have been instituted to improve productivity
and to link increases in pay with higher output.
(h)   Refrigerators. Stoves. Garments and Handbags:   It is expected
that the Export Development Fund (See paragraph
27) will facilitate the importation of raw
materials which are required for the restoration
of activity in these industries. The incentive
to increase exports will be provided by the
operation of the Fund, which will give a very
high premium to the activity of export manufacturing.



ANNEX IV
- 50 -                           Page 7 of 13
()  Pharmaceutigal    d Processed Food Items:  The Government-
owned pharmaceutical industry has already begun to invest
in the expansion of the manufacture of drugs and pharmaceu-
ticals for the CARICOM market.  Simultaneously, efforts
have been directed within the public and private sectors
to expand exports of processed units and other _ood items
by about two-thirds during the period 1980 to 1983.
EnerRv
14,     The dependence on energy requires that import substitution of
energy needs be given immediate attention. There is no doubt that the
rapid increase in the international price of oil during the last six years
has created serious economic difficulties for Guyana. Petroleum prices
have been a major factor in the steady decline in the terms of trade in
recent years, contributing to a downward trend in real incomes. The
Government's medium - and longer-term development strategy aims at greatly
reducing the country's reliance on imported energy through the development
of indigenous hydropower resources. Over the short-term, however, steps
to promote the efficient use of energy resources and limit petroleum imports
are under way. The Government is undertaking the following steps:
(a)  Under schemes financed by the U.S.A.I.D., studies are
being undertaken to assess energy utilization. Specific
targets for energy conservation are being adopted by several
public sector corporations and some of them, such as the
Guyana Mining Corporation and the Guyana Sugar Corporation,
have been reasonably successful in achieving energy
conservation. These major corporations, as well as the
Guyana Electricity Corporation, are monitoring energy usage
and are submitting periodic reports to the Cabinet on the
progress made in energy conservation. Action is being taken
to elLiinate subsidies and periodic adjustment of the price
of fuel, transport services, etc. to reflect the real cost
of energy are looked upon as a means of encouraging energy
conservation. In order to strengthen energy conservation
efforts, the Government is seeking the assistance of
external agencies, such as OLADE and USAID.
(b)   Rehabilitation of the steam boilers and improved
maintenance of the diesel generating sets of the Guyana
Electricity Corporation, with technical assistance financed
by the Overseas Development Administration of the United
Kingdom are under way. The upgrading of the management of
the Guyana Electricity Corporation is being accomplished
through a World Bank-financed technical assistance loan
which would assess, inter alia, the organizational structure,
management capabilities, operational procedures, etc. of the
corporation and provide high level management support and
on-the-job training for the staff of the Guyana Electricity
Corporation.



ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 13
(c)   The use of indigenous fuels such as bagasse, woodwaste,
rice husk, solar energy, etc. are being promoted.
(d)   Electricity tariffs have been raised by 45% since
November, 1979 and will be increased by about 15% in
February, 1981. This increase will promote more efficient
use of scarce petroleum resources and permit GEC to reach
a break-even cash position by July, 1981.
(e)   Studies to determine the most appropriate electricity and
transportation tariff structure, to promote efficient use
of energy, are under way and will be completed by June, 1981.
Investment
15.    Although growth in the medium term in the exports of sugar, bauxite/
alumina, rum and miscellaneous manufactures will depend primarily on
reducing foreign exchange constraints and inefficiencies, on substantially
raising labour productivity, and on the intensive application of improved
techniques to raise the yield of land and sea, the expansion of exports
of rice, shrimp and timber, and processed commodities will come largely
from the very large investment programme which the Government has already
undertaken. The size and composition of this programme has already
received your endorsement at the World Bank. However, the success of
growth in the sectors on which the dependence on investment is quite
considerable will depend, in very large measure, on the timely execution
of the various projects which comprise the investment programme. In
order to minimise cost overruns and delays which have afflicted the
public sector investment effort, the Government will monitor the
programme more closely and respond more rapidly to the elimination of
execution bottlenecks. In particular, the Government will attempt to
improve project execution through expedition of decisions on such matters
as the awarding of contracts, through the delegation of greater authority
to project managers, and through arrangements which hold project managers
more directly accountable for weak performances in project execution.
In addition, the Government will avail itself of such technical assistance
as can be made available to it from the World Bank and from similar
institutions in relation to such matters as procurement, the timing of
external financial flows and on substantial changes in the magnitude
and composition of the programme by quarterly submissions to the World
Bank of the progress being made with the pursuit of the investment
programme.
16.    The Government has already undertaken, by constitutional changes
and by rearrangements being made in the administrative structure, to
improve the regional administration of investment and increase local
participation in the execution and financing of the many smaller local,
social and directly productive projects. As part of the process by
which all energies and resources will be mobilized to the development
effort, the Government is also committed to provide an atmosphere
favourable to expanded levels of private investment, both domestic and
foreign.  To promote the availability of adequate credit to the private
sector, special loan schemes financed by external agencies are planned



ANNEX IV
- 52 -                            Page 9 of 13
with active participation by the Government. In this regard, the
investmer.t code will be amplified and given legal status. The Government
will continue to give active support to private sector activity that is
increasing the use of local resources and that is developing the self
reliance of the Guyanese people. The private sector certainly has a very
import-it role to play in this framework in the provision of capital and
technical expertise for the development of the country 's mineral wealth.
Financing of lnvestment
17.      The Government recognizes the need of increasing the level of
national savings so that the finance of public sector investment and of
total national investment would be met increasingly from national sources.
Over the medium term, the Government will place a greater emphasis on the
rate of growth of public sector savings which are projected to increase
from 31 of j  gross domestic product in 1979 to about Bi% in 1983.
The following table illustrates the pattern of investment finance projected
over those years.
Total National Investment (Excludin-g the Installation of
pLydroge2etric Power) and its Pinancin~r
Percentages of Gross Domestic Product
1979       1980    1981       1982        1983
Total Investment                 22.2       24.5    2 7.0
Public                    17.7        21.5    23.0       22.0        21.0
Private                    4.5         3,0      4.0       5.5         6.5
Financed by -
Total National Savjngs                     6.0    12.9       14.         16.5
Public                     3.5         0,5      5.5       7.0         8.5
Private                    4.0         5.0     7.4        7.8         8.0
Total Net Capital Inflow         14.7185    14.1                12.7       11t0
18.      A wide range of fiscal and monetary measures would be used to raise
the rate of national savings. Government enterprises (including the National
Insurance Scheme) which contributed 12 of gross domestic product in 1979
would be expected to increase their contribution to 15% in 1983 mainly by
increasing export revenues but also by minimizing local expenditures in
relation to the revenues. The deficit of the Central Government, which was
8.5% of the gross domestic product in 1979 would be reduced to one of 5%
in 1983 by restraint on employment in the traditional public service as
part of the structural adjustment to shift more of domestic output to
satisfy external demand. Simultaneously, the productivity of services
in the government sector would be raised to justify increases in wages
to government servants, At the same time as well, the tax base would be
broadened. The administration of the direct taxes has been improved over the



ANNEX IV
- 53 -                           Page 10 of 13
last two years by better investigative and tax collecting methods, as
their marginal rates are reduced to minimize their disincentive effect.
Tne imposition of indirect taxes, including consumption taxes and excise
duties would be widened in the 1981 Budget to fall minimally on a wide
range of items but also more steeply on less essential commodities.
Tariffs on transport and telephone services which were raised by a third
in the 1980 Budget and which were estimated to increase revenues from these
services by slightly more than 1% of GDP in a full year would be continuously
adjusted to reflect increases in costs and to contribute another 2g of the
gross domestic product in surpluses by 19830
19.      The interest rate level has been trebled since 1978 by increases
of about 7 percentage points to maintain and increase the rate of private
savings in the banking system.  While at rates which average 12.5%, bank
deposit interest rates are negative in relation to the annual rate of
increase of domestic prices of about l8%, it is not envisaged that interest
rates will be increased to levels that will make the real positive in one
year. It will be necessary instead to adjust rates more gradually by one
or two percentage point increases each year.
Alleviating the Balance of Payments Constraint
20.      These efforts to raise savings internally are being pursued in the
context of an Extended Fund Facility programme with the International Monetary
Fund which is providing SDR 100 million over a period of three years. The
programme was approved by the IMF in July, 1980 and does envisage an
adjustment over a period considerably longer than the three years duration
of this present programme and will very likely require an extension of the
extended Fund arrangement for at least another three years. It also assumes
that additional external financing for meeting the local costs of projects
will be available. The success of the programme is based on the need for
such finance from sources such as the World Bank.
Pricing Policies
21.      The Government recognizes that allocational and distributional
efficiencies can be achieved, in quite considerable measure, by the use of
fiscal and monetary measures such as those outlined above, by the gradual
rationalization of prices throughout the economy (including the reduction
of subsidies where income distributional considerations will permit them)
and by the inculcation of an associated awareness of cost efficient operations
in public sector corporations and general govermental operations. In
particular relation to agriculture, as technological packages are modified,
the cost benefit relationships of these adaptations will be monitored and
economic prices applied as incentives for the intensive use of high yielding
old and new technologies and for mobilizing additional acreages for the
cultivation of rice, other crops and livestock. The approach to improving
the cost-efficiency of public sector operations will have a direct impact on
the pricing policies to be adopted in the rice industry where the reduction
of local consumer subsidies, improved efficiency in the operations of the
Guyana Rice Board and the increases in the prices paid to the farmers are
jointly required measures for restraining local consumption, assisting the
very small farmers and for generally stimulating the higher levels of rice



ANNEX IV
_ 54 -                             Page 11 of 13
output on which the growth and export projections are premised. It is
obvious that the complex of factors associated with these developments will
not provide immediate answers on appropriate producer prices for rice.
Nevertheless as a temporary measure, the Government has already increased
producer prices by about 19% during the last 12 months and ',Ls announced
an additional increase of 12% to 15%ov effective from January 1, 198l
To maximize the sales by farmers to the Guyana Rice Board, the local
procurement price of rice will also be increased. In the meantime, study
of the technological factors and of the most efficient methods of subsidizing
the smaller farmers will provide indications of the longer term relationships
that should exist between producer prices, producer subsidies and consumer
prices in the rice industry. As a concomitant of these price adjustments,
the Government is giving consideration to the reduction of the subsidy
for sugar to domestic consumers.
Incomes Policies
22.      The Government is fully aware that remuneration packages cannot
be pursued without a "concern for equity" and that "the pursuit of equity
without a reasonable concern for growth" will reinforce stagnation.
Accordingly, it has set for itself the target of updating the available
data on income distribution before the presentation of the 1981 Budget.
As part of the overall package for improving remuneration, particularly
of the managerial staff, the Government will adjust marginal income tax
rates in the 1981 Budget to reduce their disincentive effects. The
Government recognizes, however, that any reasonable concern for equity
is not likely to be achieved if salaries paid to managerial and technical
staff are adjusted to the exact equivalent of similar posts in North America
and Europe.
23.     Accordingly, the Government has already instituted a number of
arrangements for increasing worker participation in the management of
enterprises and is seeking technical assistance to extend the range and
scope of its on and off the job training programmes to include senior
and middle management, skilled and semi-skilled technical staff, It has
already taken measures to extend this training to the wider body of the
trade union membership and will intensify these training arrangements as
a menas of contributing to improved industrial relations. In addition,
the Government's wages policy relies on broadening existing schemes which
are based on the payment of wages according to worker performances and on
institutionalizing the system of incentive payments. In this regard, the
Government has already established a system of salary differentials based
on skills in the public sector. Incentive schemes are also in existence in
the bauxite and sugar corporations and have now been extended to include
almost all the operations in the public sector. The Government plans to
make the operation of these schemes an integral part of the incomes policy
by which higher earnings will be linked to higher output.



AIVNEX IV
- 55 -                                  Page 12 of 13
Spatial Distribution
24.      The Government has already devolved some of the authority in
respect of governmental functions to a local governmental and regional
system. This is expected to lead in the future to reduced rates of
increase of recurrent costs of governmental operations as more
involvement of local resources can be mobilized to contribute to these
costs. The scope will be increased also for more local planning, and
more local participation in the programmes for improving the rural and
hinterland economies. Work for effecting these changes is already underway
and the 1981 Budget will include some of the more important arrangements for
a very thorough going system of regional administration.
Institutional Strengthening
25e      It is clear that these changes cannot be achieved without very
efficient co-ordination of institutional changes to use manpower more
efficiently and to relate programmes and the execution of projects more
effectively with one another. Only the more important of these arrangements
can be mentioned here. First, the Government has already clarified the
monitoring and policy formulating roles of the Economic and Monitoring
Sub-Committee of Cabinet to improve the effectiveness with which governmental
operations function. Second, the State Planning Commission has already
worked with ministries and corporations with a view to formulating their
programmes with greater clarity and consistency in relation to the overall
measures herein described, thus making it easier to measure improvements in
their operations and to effect the increases in prodictivity in governmental
and public enterprise activities on which the income policy rests and on which
the structural changes of reduced manpower in the service sectors relies.
Third, financial monitoring by the Ministry of Finance and the State Planning
Commission has improved in 1980 in timeliness and provides the basis for
more comprehensive accounting, for periodic audits, and for qualitative
appraisals of the effectiveness of Government expenditure. Fourth, the
Ministry of Trade and the Bank of Guyana are co-ordinating very closely
on the arrangements by which licences are issued to reduce the number of
agencies that are involved in the approval process. Fifth, the External
Debt Monitoring Committee has already sent out reports on the existing
level of external debt and has already assumed control over the external
borrowing activities of all public sector agencies.
26.      In relation to the specific target of expanding exports as set out
in paragraph 13, the Government has set up an Export Promotion Unit which
is now assisted by an adviser from the European Economic Community and
will establish an Export Promotion Council to encourage exports of
handicarafts and other non-traditional manufactures. The Export Unit will
be transferred from the State Planning Secretariat to the Ministry of
Trade and Consumer Protection and its professional staff will be doubled
by March 31, 1981. The efforts in these directions will necessitate
considerable strengthening of the existing arrangements to market rice
and timber in the larger quantities envisaged in the very near future.
Since it is likely that output of rice will increase at a rate faster
than can be absorbed by the CARICOM market, it will be necessary to
establish marketing arrangements which will be associated with the wider
world markets and therefore with production, milling and packaging that



ANNEX IV
- 56 -                              Page 13 of 13
will improve quality for achieving greater competitiveness overseas,
Similarly, already existing commitments to the World Bank for the sale
of timber through associations with existing European sales firms will be
executed with the streamlining of extraction from the forests and the
improvement of seasoning, treating and processing of wood for greater
;-ratL. in CARICOM and wider markets.
27.      In order to give further support to the export manufacturing sector,
the Government is planning the establishment of an Export Development Fund by
January 15, 1981 which would provide foreign exchange to exporters in the
manufacturing sector. In addition, an Industrial Development Adviser will be
appointed by July, 1981, with responsibility for recommending programmes,
policies and institutional arrangements for the manufacturing sector. The
adviser will act as a liaison between the industrial sector and the Government,
providing advisory services to financial, managerial and exporting
institutions in the industrial sector.
28.      While the above institutional changes are consistent with structural
adjustments that do not include the smelting of aluminum, it will be necessary
to give comprehensive study to the employment, balance of payments and skill
requirement implications for the Guyana economy of a strategy which is based
on the inclusion of the large hydro-cum smelter project in the investment
profile of Guyana. 'The Government, in collaboration and with assistance of
the World Bank, will undertake to conclude such studies by the end of 1981.
29,     The Government of Guyana is committed to the timely execution of the
measures set forth above in order to stimulate growth and promote balance of
payments stability. In this regard, it hopes to attain the financial and
technical assistance of the World Bank in the execution of the programme.
Yours co-operatively,
F.E. Hope
Minister of Finance.



ANNEX IV
- 57 -                        APPENDIX A
Page 1 of 3
TABULAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
FOR ACHIEVING STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
Brief Description                            Target at which         Dates by which
of Measure                               Measure is aimed       Measure will be
No.                                                                         instituted
A.  MEASURES FOR ROUTINE CONSULTATION WJITH THE WORLD BANK
(a) Energy
1.   Submission of reports on energy con-   Energy  Conservation   February, 1981 and
servation by major users - Guymine,                                 half yearly reports
G.E.C. and Guysuco                                                   thereafter
2.   Electricity and fare tariffs that           Energy  ConservatiDn   February, 1981 and
pass on fuel costs fully to                                         half yearly reviews
consumers                                                            thereafter
(b) Investment Programme and Financina
3.   Reports on progress in the execu-          Maintenance of a          Quarterly reports
tion of the investment programme           high quality invest-   commencing January,
ment programme           1981
4.   Reports on changes in the volume            Increasing the           Half yearly reports
of public sector savings                   national contribu-       commencing January,
tion to the finance    1981
of investment
5.   Increases in domestic interest              Increasing national    July, 1981 and sub-
rates                                      savings and improv-    sequently
ing allocational
efficiency
(c) Pricing Policies
6.   Provisional increase of 5% ir              Increasing incen-         December, 1980
prices paid to rice farmers                tives to rice
farmers to apply
better techniques
and increase
acreages
(d) Institutional Strengthening
7.   Reports on financial monitoring            Improving the effec-   Half yearly reports
by the Ministry of Finance                 tiveness of Govern-    commencing January,
mert expenditures        1981
8.   External debt reviews                       Improvement in the       Half yearly reports
management of the        commencing October,
external debt            1981
9.   Reports on the operational effici-         Rationalizing the         Third quarter 1981
ency of G.R.E. and on the most             Relationship between   and subsequently
efficient method of subsidisirg            producer prices and
small farmers                              prices and subsidies



-58 -                          ANNEX IV
APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 3
Grief Description                           Target at which        Dates by which
of Measure                              Measure is aimed      Measure will be
instituted
10.   Review of incentive schemes               Linking payment of       Half yearly reports
related to:-                              wages to increasing    commencing January,
(a)  Increasing output                    productivity partic-   1981
(b)  minimizing governmental              ularly in public
expenditures                       sector governmental
operations
(e) Development of Manufacturing Sector and Exports
11.   Establishment of the Export               Export  promotion        January 15, 1981
Development Fund                                                   for establishment
of the Fund and
quarterly reports
thereafter
12.   Preparation of long-term                  Export promotion         Agreement on basic
Export Action Programme                                            elements by March,
1981; preparation
of a detailed pro-
gramme by June, 1981
and thereafter
13.   Increasing the professional               Export  promotion        March 31, 1981
staff of the Export Promo-
tion Unit to 4 persons
14.   Appointment of Industrial Adviser         Contributing to the    July, 1981
development of the
manufacturing sector
15.   Amplification of Investment Code          Encouraging of pri-    Commencing third
and placing of the provisions of          vate investment and    quarter 1981 and
the Code on the Statute Books             clarification of its   subsequently
role
(f) Hydropower/Smelter Development
16.   Government of Guyana and World Bank    Clarification of the   Commencing early 1931
study of the implications of a develop-structural adjust-          and to be completed
ment strategy based on further pro-    ments necessary for    in 12 to 18 months
cessing of bauxite in Guyana              hydro-smelter invest-
ment



ANNEX IV
- 59 -                          APPENDIX A
Page 3 of 2
Brief Description                           Target at which        Dates by which
of Measure                              Measury is aimed       Measure will be
No.                                                                         instituted
B. MEASURES FOR REFERENCE TO THE WORLD BANK
WHEN SPECIFIC ASSISTANCE IS REQUIRED
(a) Appropriate Technology
1.    Reports on technology transfer in          Identification of        Half yearly reports
the manufacturing sector by the           methods for increas-   commencing first
N.S.R.C. and the Institute of             ing linkages and         quarter 1901
Applied Sciences and Technology           encouraging the
greater use of local
raw materials
2.    Reports by I.R.I. on research in           Higher yields in rice  Quarterly progress
the appropriate technology for            cultivation              reports commencing
rice cultivation                                                   first quarter 1981
3.    Reports by I.R.I. on research              Higher yields in         Quarterly progress
in the appropriate technology for         other crop cultiva-    reports commencing
cultivation of other crops                tion and improved        mid-19B1
nutritional standards
4.    Reports by Guysuco on research             Higher yields in         Half yearly reports
into variaties for improving              sugar cane cultiva-    commencing mid-1981
yields in cane sugar                      tion
(b) Energy
5.    Rehabilitation of G.E.C.                  More efficient use of  On going with com-
energy                   pletion expected in
mid-1982
6.    Studies on alternative fuels               Energy conservation    On going with peri-
odic quarterly reports
commencing March, 1981
(c) Fiscal Measures
7.    Adjustments to the marginal rates          Reducing earnings        Budget 1981 and sub-
of personal income taxes                  disincentive             sequently
8.    Widening of the base of the con-           Increasing Govern-       Budget 1981 and sub-
sumption tax and changing the             ment revenue and im-   sequently
structure                                 proving equity in
after tax Tncomes
and burdens of tax-
ation
(d) Institutional Strengthening
9.    Progress reports on training pro-          Improving productiv-   Half yearly reports
grammes for managerial, technical         ity in the economy       commencing January,
and semi-skilled staff                                             1981
10.   Increasing the devaluation of              Improving the geo-       Constitutional changes
governmental functions of regional        graphical spread of    in 1981 and continu-
authorities                               incomes and the          ously subsequently
efficiency of expen-
dit ures in rural &
hinterland areas



- 60 -                     ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT FUND (EDF)
Principal Features
Purpose:            The EDF is to be a revolving foreign exchange fund for the
purpose of providing foreign exchange to meet the recur-
rent requirements (for raw materials, intermediate goods,
packaging materials,  and sparesi  of domestic nontradi-
tional exporters.
Status:             The EDF is a trust fund established in the Bank of Guyana.
It will have its own Governing Board, chaired by a high-
ranking official of the Bank of Guyana and consisting of
one representative each from the Bank of Guyana, Ministry
of Trade, Ministry of Economic Development, the State
Planning Commission, the private manufacturing sector and
the commercial banking sector.   The EDF will maintain
separate accounts, and its funds will not be co-mingled
for any purpose with those of the Bank of Guyana. It will
also have the authority to hold and manage its domestic
and foreign exchange assets, to lend and borrow.  The EDF
will continue for a period of at least five years.
Processing          Initially, the EDF will make available foreign exchange
Principles:       against equivalent deposits in local currency.  Within the
first year of the establishment of the EDF proposals for
provision of credit also would be made. Eligible applica-
tions will be processed on a first-come, first-served
basis, regardless of the nature of ownership of the appli-
cant enterprise.   To assess eligibility, the EDF will
determine that the applicant has a successful export
history or firm orders in hand which will result in for-
eign exchange earnings; has met its commercial and banking
obligations; has no serious pending legal proceedings; is
adequately managed, staffed and financed; and has made
adequate provision for insurance.
Recovery            The EDF will recapture its foreign exchange resources in
Mechanism:        full by retaining an adequate percentage of the foreign
exchange receipts of the exporters assisted by the EDF.
Foreign Exchange   To maintain the foreign exchange integrity of the EDF, the
Integrity:       Bank of Guyana will:  (i) promptly convert any receipts in
soft (not readily convertible) currencies into US dollars;
and (ii) replenish, directly or through appropriate
adjustments in the recovery percentages, any foreign ex-
change funds not recaptured within 365 days from disburse-
ment.



- 61 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
Import Licensing   (a)  Import  licensing  for EDF-financed  imports will  be
simplified through a working agreement with the
Ministry of Trade;
(b) Approved exporters will be permitted to import their
export-related requirements directly.
Fees and Charges:  The EDF will charge fees and charges sufficient to cover
all its expenditures, including interest expenses.
Additionality:       The  foreign exchange made  available by the EDF to the
manufacturing sector will be in addition to, and not in
lieu of, foreign exchange allocations that would normally
have been made for this sector by the Bank of Guyana.
Channelling of       The EDF component of the loan will be relent by the Gov-
IBRD Funds:       ernment to the EDF in US dollars with a grace period of at
least f..ve years, and at the rate of interest of the Bank
loan (repayable to the Government in local currency). The
repayment period (including grace) for the principal
amount will not be shorter than the repayment period for
the IBRD loan.
Reporting:           The EDF will submit to the Bank quarterly reports on its
operations in a format agreed by the Bank.  Its accounts
will be audited annually by independent auditors satis-
factory to the Bank.



-62 -                             ANNEX VI
FUND RELATIONS WITH GUYANA
(As of November 30, 1980)
Status:                     Article VIII
Quota:                      SDR 25 million; consented to an increase to SDR 37.5
million.
Fund Holdings of                                          Millions       Per Cent
Guyana Dollars:           As of November 30, 1980       of SDRs        of Quota
Total                           95.5            382.1
Under tranche policies       (49.3)         (197.4)
Of which:  EFF             /22.8/          /91.3/
Under CFF                    (23.4)          (93.4)
Under SFF                    (22.8)           (91.3)
Millions      Per Cent of
SDR Department:             As of November 30, 1980       of SDRs       Allocation
Cumulative allocation           11.98           100.00
Holdings                         1.6            33.0
Exiisting                   Period:  July 25, 1980-July 24, 1983.
EFF Arrangement:         Amount:  SDR 100 million.
(Of which under SFF: SDR 66 million).
Used:    SDR 35.63 million.
Exchange Rate:              Pegged to the US dollar since 10/9/75 at G$2.55 per US
dollar.
£        Gold Distribution:           17,117 fine ounces.
Distribution of profits
from gold sales:         US$3.2 million.
Last Article IV             Discussions March 14-April 5, 1979; consultation com-
Consultation:             pleted by the Board on June 25, 1979 (EBM/79/98).



I B R D 11,.83R]
GUYAN A
BA g                                                       HARiaan   gC   ITY  O
PTOWAKAIMA                                  ANNA REGINA
;34             /(\>    2eX   iVE~~~~~~SNAAa   oin W..od
'~~~~~~~toteo t o\ N40, I--
JP                                                                   W    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VRE$EE ST-ElI   -;  - 
1RARAM!TA                   ~~~~~KARTBUos  POIN     IT                               AMIRA
Zz-r~~~~~)                    0A,                                          
>~~~~~N 31                                                  s0to                                   0*'USNWAI     i,LyAI( \ @
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"                                                                                        i
M HDA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~AMTRA
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N~  \ NAS S                                                               etd o 
'  ,:W.;>: .. }~~to-                                   MC l51   )A          \    t        ,
<~~~~~~~~~~) $OR UIK                          (           / k?                   i0f
AlIuviol Coast Areas .1
Forested Areas              <
Saivannah1 
- Main Roads                                        SURA
Secondary Roads                                  A0,-A
-4--   Railroads                                                                                                                                r40
-t     Airfields
----Rivers                                      G
=. -    International Boundaries                 *    .   K  naTbo                                              Gt
ECONOMiC ACTIViTIES
"';Crops / Posture
&iffu   Bauxite
Li vestock           -
Forestry 
o    o 2  0    40   50WCA
rs  i)   20   310  4t0  5Xo    t   ,   <>Q+    ~AWARUWAUNAWA                $r7 
A                        ~~~~~~~~~Mites
o     21    fl;    'IO   80?                                    AISHALTON|                          
F  S   af-!A@r/c                       1e,                                                           H               . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~GNIS TR
X       jEOLifLA8     A                                                                           B   R   A   Z  I L



