LOAN NUMBER 1948 GUA
OFFICIAL       CREDIT NUMBER 1098 GUA
DOCUMENTS
Joint Project Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANK OF GUYANA
Dated                      /7      , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1948 GUA
CREDIT NUMBER 1098 GUA
JOINT PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          171981, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOMNT (hereinafter called the Bank),
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and,BANK OF GUYANA (hereinafter called BOG).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Guyana (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make a loan to the Borrower in an amount
in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million dollars
($14,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that BOG agrees to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BOG, amounts equivalent to eight million
dollars ($8,000,000) or such other amounts as shall be allocated
to Category (1) (a) in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement will, out
of the proceeds of the Loan, be relent to BOG on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
(C) amounts equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000)
or such other amounts as shall be allocated to Category (1) (b)
and (c) in said Schedule 1 will, out of the proceeds to the Loan,
be made available to BOG by the Borrower for the purposes of Part
B of the Project;
(D) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Guyana and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower a development credit in
an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million, three
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,300,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agree-
ment, but only on condition that BOG agrees to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
(E) the proceeds of the Credit will be made available by
the Borrower to BOG to be used in carrying out the Project;
WHEREAS BOG, in consideration of the Bank and the Association
entering into the Loan Agreement and the. Development Credit
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and- the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) BOG shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and banking practices and in accordance with the Trust
Instrument.
(b) BOG shall provide promptly as needed the funds, facili-
ties and resources needed by the Export Development Fund including
all the funds needed by EDF to meet the foreign exchange needs of
exporters applying for EDF's foreign exchange resources.
(c) BOG shall assign to EDF qualified and experienced staff
in adequate numbers including at least four full-time professional
staff.
Section 2.02. In order to assist BOG in carrying out the
Project, BOG shall, as necessary, employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and of the Credit, shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The business of EDF shall be managed by BOG
in accordance with the Trust Instrument, with the Guidelines
set out in Schedule 2 hereto and the statement of policies and
procedures of EDF prepared by BOG in consultation with the Bank,
the said Guidelines being subject to modification by agreement
between the Bank and BOG.


﻿- 3-
Section 2.05. (a) BOG undertakes to cause enterprises
participating in the Project to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of*the Loan or the Credit made available to BOG
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by such enterprises to replace
or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Association may otherwise
agree, BOG shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Voan or the Credit relent or made available to
BOG by "the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) BOG shall furnish to the Bank and the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the reports,
contract documents and procurement schedules for the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank and the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) BOG: (M) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
and the Association's accredited representatives to visit BOG and
any enterprise whose imports have been financed from the-proceeds
of the Loan or the Credit and to examine the goods financed out of
such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank and the Association at regular,intervals
all such information as the Bank and the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from.it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) BOG shall prepare and furnish to the Bank quarterly
reports on transactions and operations of EDF including data on
the export performance of enterprises granted foreign exchange
facilities by EDF.
(d) Promptly after the completion of 'the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between BOG and the


﻿-4-
Bank and the Association, 30G, shall -prepare and furnish to the
Bank and the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank and the Association shall reasonably request,
on the execution.and initial operation of the Project, the cost
and the benefits derived and to be derived therefrom, the
performance of BOG, the Bank and the Association of their
respective obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan and the Credit.
(e) BOG shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. (a) BOG shall, at the request of the Bank, and
the Association exchange views, with the Bank and the Association
with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of
their respective obligations under this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the Credit.
(b) BOG shall promptly inform the Bank and the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan and the Credit, or the performance by BOG of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement.
Section 2.08. BOG shall promptly endorse import licence
applications to be made to the Borrower by enterprises granted
access to EDF's foreign exchange facilities.
Section 2.09. BOG shall no later than December 31, 1981
furnish to the Bank and the Association a scheme satisfactory to
the Bank and the Association under which credit will be extended
to eligible importers granted access to EDF's foreign exchange
facilities.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EDF
Section 3.01. (a) BOG shall cause EDF at all times to manage
its affairs and carry on its operations in an efficient manner
under capable management and with the assistance of qualified and
experienced personnel, all in accordance with sound business,
financial and administrative.practices.
(b) BOG shall cause EDF to take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.


﻿- 5-
Section 3.02. BOG shall cause EDF to take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Bank and the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound business and
financial practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. BOG shall cause EDF to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices EDF's operations and financial
condition.
Section 4.02. BOG shall: (i) cause EDF's accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year to be audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Bank and the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of EDF's financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank and the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank and the Association such other informa-
tion concerning the accounts and financial statements of EDF and
the audit thereof as the Bank and the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the earliest date upon which the Loan Agreement and the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement shall both become effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank,
the Association and BOG thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with their terms or on a date 20
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
earlier, and the Bank and the Association shall promptly so notify
BOG of such termination.


﻿- 6 -
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 7-
For BOG:
Bank of Guyana
P.O. Box 1003
Bank of Guyana Bldg.
Georgetown, Guyana
Cable Address:                       Telex:
CENTRALBANK,                       2267
Guyana
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BOG may be taken or executed by such
other person as BOG shall designate in writing; and BOG shall
furnish to the Bank and the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 11I44 af  6./
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By    /&               h
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 8-
BANK OF GUYANA -
By4        1
Ahorized Representative


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B of this Schedule, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, BOG shall prepare and forward to the Bank
and the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank and the
Association shall reasonably request; the Bank and the Association
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods in question. BOG shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
I.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $125,000 or
more but less than $1,000,000 shall be procured after prior
solicitation of at least three price quotations from suppliers.
2.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $125,000
shall be procured through prudent commercial practices.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank and the
Association
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $500,000 or more, BOG shall furnish to the Bank and the
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the


﻿- 10-
delivery to the Bank and the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account and the Credit in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with evidence of the three price quotations required
under Part B of this Schedule, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Bank and the Association shall reasonably
request. The Bank and the Association shall, if they determine
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform BOG and state the
reasons for such determination.
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of less than $500,000, BOG shall have copies thereof
available in Guyana for inspection by representatives of the
Bank.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Guidelines for the Operation of
the Export Development Fund
I - Administration
1.   EDF shall be a revolving fund providing foreign exchange
to meet the recurrent export production requirements of
domestic non-traditional exporters.
2.   EDF shall have a Governing Board with a senior officer of
BOG as chairman and shall include as members representatives
of BOG, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Economic
Development, the State Planning Commission, the private
manufacturing sector and the commercial banking sector.
II - Operations
A.   Information Required for Qualification
EDF shall require each exporter seeking access to EDF's
foreign exchange facilities to:
(1) fill out and execute an application for allocation
of foreign exchange, which will give information on
the applicant's past record of performance and its
financial, technical and managerial capabilities, to the
extent required to carry out the export in question. In
addition, it will give details on past export sales and
projected exports for the coming year, and will be
designed to elicit information on the applicant's future
plans for export marketing and the imports it will
require to fulfill these plans; and
(2) designate one commercial bank located in Guyana as the
channel for all of its import and export payments and
as a source of credit and other information.
B.   Types of Users
Guyanese manufacturing enterprises which can demonstrate
to the satisfaction of EDF that they are adequately financed,
competently administered and technically qualified, shall be
eligible to utilize EDF's foreign exchange facilities. Both public
and private firms shall be eligible on an equal basis.


﻿- 12 -
C.   Priority of Users
Eligible applications shall be processed on a first-come,
first-served basis. However, in case of resource constraints,
priority in using EDF's funds will be given to those firms that
have the highest local value added in their exports.
D.   Qualification Procedures
EDF shall review all of the information furnished by the
applicant as specified above, together with its own records and
determine to its own satisfaction that:
(1) the applicant has a successful export history or, if
a new exporter, has firm orders in hand, which will
result in foreign exchange earnings;
(2) the applicant has a good record for meeting its com-
mercial and banking obligations;
(3) the applicant has no legal proceedings pending or
threatened which would materially and adversely affect
the ability of the applicant to realize its export
plans;
(4) the applicant is financially capable of carrying out the
complete import-export cycle for which application has
been made;
(5) the applicant is adequately managed and staffed to carry
out the import-export cycle;
(6) the applicant has no long-standing or overdue export
payment receipts uncollected and due EDF for prior
advances; and
(7) the applicant has made adequate provision for insurance
against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery of goods to be paid out of
EDF's foreign exchange facilities.
E.   Approval of Qualification
A qualified applicant shall be notified of approval by
issuance of a commitment letter which will include or append
the following:


﻿-  13
(1) the*maximum U.S. dollar amount which EDF will make
available, anticipating the applicant's normal import
component needs for a period of six months;
(2) a listing of the products which would be authorized
for import;
(3) the termination date of the availability of EDF foreign
exchange facilities, after which funds will no longer
be disbursed to cover the applicant's imports; and
(4) a schedule of EDF's users fees payable by the applicant
in Guyana dollars upon disbursement of EDF funds to
pay for imports.
F.   Commitment Fee
An applicant who has been sent a commitment letter must
sign and return a copy of the commitment letter, together with a
commitment fee in Guyana dollars within the period specified by
EDF. If this is not done within the period so specified, the EDF
commitment shall be cancelled.
.G.  Approval of Import Licenses
An applicant shall apply to the Borrower's Ministry of Trade
for all necessary import licenses at the same time it applies to
EDF for an allocation of foreign exchange, indicating to the
Ministry of Trade the fact that he is applying for EDF funding.
While EDF is processing its application, it shall maintain close
liaison with the Ministry of Trade.  Upon approval of allocation
of foreign exchange, EDF shall send a copy of its commitment
letter to the Ministry of Trade. Based upon the EDF's determina-
tion that these imports meet the export development objectives
of the Project and EDF's comitment of funds to purchase these
imports, the Ministry of Trade, in consultation with BOG, will be
expected to issue promptly the necessary import license(s) to
cover all imports to be financed by EDF during the validity period
of the commitment. A copy of this import license will be furnished
to the importer and to EDF.
III. Disbursement Procedures
A.   Shipment of Imported Goods
The importer, having received a commitment from EDF to
provide foreign exchange and an approved import license, shall


﻿- 14 -
request the foreign supplier to ship -the related goods and shall
request the Guyana commercial bank acting for it to make payment
for the goods on due date.
B.   Requirements for Disbursement
Prior to disbursement, EDF shall ensure that the following
are received from the applicant:
(1) a completed EDF Form (Application to Purchase Foreign
Currency) with supporting documente, i.e., import
license, invoices, customs entry, bill of lading or
airways cargo bill, where applicable;
(2) a statement of the applicant describing efforts made
to obtain the most favorable terms possible from the
foreign supplier and a certification that the material
or product being imported will be used for the pur-
pose(s) described in the application for EDF funds
previously made by the exporter;
(3) evidence that for individual contracts costing $125,000
or more but less than $1,000,000, three price quotations
(either oral or written) have been sought by the
applicant and that the applicant has complied with all
other applicable procurement provisions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement.
C.   Payment for the Import
Upon the due date of the supplier credit or other foreign
financing arranged for the import transaction, the commercial bank
acting for the applicant shall charge the account of its Guyana
client the equivalent Guyana dollar amount of the foreign exchange
required for the import plus the EDF user's fee required. The
commercial bank shall then make payment of the foreign exchange
obligation to the foreign supplier from its foreign currency
account in a bank in the creditor's country.
D.   Request by Commercial Bank to EDF for Reimbursement
When the foreign creditor has been paid, the commercial bank
shall furnish EDF with a completed EDF Form and supporting docu-
ments (where applicable) requesting reimbursement for the amount
of the foreign exchange payment made.


﻿- 15 -
E.   Disbursement by EDF
EDF shall check the commercial bank's disbursement request
and related documents to determine that:
(1) the products and amounts to be imported are consistent
with the related import license(s);
(2) the price to be paid for the imported raw material or
product does not appear excessive;
(3) the unused and available balance stated in the commit-
ment issued to the applicant is sufficient to cover
the amount of foreign ex.hange to be disbursed; and
(4) the supplier is located in a country which is a member
of the Bank or the Association or in Switzerland.
If the above items are satisfactory, EDF shall promptly
reimburse the commercial bank for the foreign exchange it dis-
bursed by selling foreign exchange for an equivalent amount of
Guyana dollars deposited with the EDF.    In addition, EDF shall
receive Guyana dollars paid by the applicant as EDF user's fees.
F.   Bank Disbursement
After disbursement by EDF, described above, a withdrawal
application shall be made to the Bank or to the Association by
EDF. Applications for reimbursement shall be furnished to the
Bank every two weeks or whenever accumulated requests for
reimbursement exceed $500,000, whichever is earlier.
IV. Replenishment Procedures
A.   General
Any foreign exchange earned from any of the beneficiary's
exports after the first EDF disbursement on its account shall be
attributed to the imports financed by EDF and an appropriate
portion of such foreign exchange (to be determined by EDF) shall
be converted into U.S. dollars and remitted to EDF in exchange
for the outstanding local currency deposits with EDF.
B.   Use of Commercial Banks to Collect Export Sales
Proceeds
All receipts of foreign exchange in payment for exports
made by exporters who have utilized EDF funds must be collected
through the facilities of a commercial bank in Guyana.


﻿- 16-
Upon each delivery of an export shipment to an ocean freight
carrier or to an air freight agent by an EDF exporter, the
documents required of the EDF exporter (i.e., export license,
invoices, completed EDF Form, bills of lading or tenor bills)
shall be delivered immediately by the exporter to the commercial
bank acting for it. The commercial bank shall be responsible for
collection of the foreign exchange receivable in accordance with
the terms of sale arranged by the exporter with the foreign buyer.
A copy of the EDF Form should be forwarded to EDF.
C.   Recapture of Foreign Exchange by EDF
1.   General
All hard currency foreign exchange (1) received by
Guyana commercial banks in payment of obligations of foreign
buyers for export shipments made by EDF exporters shall be
converted by the commercial banks into U.S. dollars and
surrendered by the commercial banks to EDF.
EDF shall retain an appropriate portion of the foreign
exchange funds to convert Guyana dollar deposits attributable
to the exporter into foreign exchange funds. EDF shall credit
the equivalent amount of local currency to the account of the
exporter at the commercial bank acting for the exporter. The
remaining portion of foreign exchange collected shall be
remitted by EDF to BOG which shall retain the foreign ex-
change and credit, the equivalent in Guyana dollars to the
account of the exporter in the commercial bank.
The procedure outlined above shall apply only as long
as there is outstanding local currency in EDF attributable to
the exporter, other than commitment fees.
When the exporter's account in EDF has been fully
replenished in foreign exchange, 100 per cent of foreign
exchange collected for the exporter's account shall be
remitted by EDF to BOG.
2.   Treatment of Soft Currency Export Proceeds
All soft currency foreign exchange (1) received by a
Guyana commercial bank in payment of obligations of foreign
buyers for export shipments made by EDF exporters shall be
surrendered to BOG pursuant to that bank's agreement to
(1) All exchange that is not readily convertible by the Guyana
commercial banks into U.S. dollars.


﻿- 17 -
purchase such soft currency exchange. BOG shall promptly
convert an appropriate portion (to be determined by EDF) of
the soft currency foreign exchange into U.S. dollar exchange
and sell such foreign exchange to EDF for Guyana dollars. .BOG
shall remit the equivalent in Guyana dollars to the account
of the exporter at his commercial bank. This arrangement
shall continue until the exporter's foreign exchange account
at EDF is replenished.
D.   Repayment of Advances When Export Cycle Exceeds
One Year
BOG shall purchase from EDF with U.S. dollars all Guyana
dollar deposits which, due to exporter problems, remain wholly or
partly unpaid at the end of one year after the date of payment by
EDF for the related imported goods.
E.   Exchange Risk
EDF shall not bear any foreign exchange risk on its funds.
This risk shall be carried by its clients.     BOG shall carry the
foreign exchange risk on any funds not recaptured within 365 days
from disbursement and on any deposits of soft currencies with
BOG.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198L.
FOR SECRETARY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of         ,198
FOR SECRETARY


