                                                                                                             95254
Results Profile: Uruguay Water                                                                            March 10, 2010




 LONG-TERM PARTNERSHIP

 Modernizing public water services in Uruguay




Overview
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) worked with Uruguay to
modernize its water utility company, Obras Sanitarias del Estado (OSE), helping in its
                                       
transformation from an inefficient monopoly into a more accountable public utility providing
better quality water to more Uruguayans than ever before.

  Full Brief—3 Pages
Modernizing Public Water Services in Uruguay—PDF, April 2010


Challenge
Uruguay’s economy is one of the most prosperous and its
                                                                        More Results
society is one of the most equal in South America. After
decades of relatively slow economic growth, the economy

                                                                        235,000
grew by an average of 6.7 percent over the five years
through 2008, reducing unemployment to 8 percent from 13
percent and poverty to 25 percent from 42 percent.
                                                                        More people have access to
                                                                        water in metropolitan
Given Uruguay’s comparatively small size (its population is             Montevideo.
just over 3 million people), it is not surprising that its public
utilities—water, electricity and until recently
telecommunications—are monopolies in their respective
                                                                        MORE INFORMATION
sectors, which has made it difficult to benchmark and provide
entry points to improve performance. While Uruguay has                   World Bank in Uruguay
made impressive strides to achieve universal access to basic             Water Supply and Sanitation in
infrastructure services over the past two decades, access to             Latin America
piped sewerage at about 53 percent remains relatively low
when compared to Chile, Colombia and Mexico, as well as
several comparable Brazilian states.  In addition, the                  PARTNERS
country’s public water and sanitation utility, OSE, historically
lagged behind other public service providers in terms of                 Government of Japan
operational performance and customer service.


Approach                                                             

Uruguay has long valued a consensus-driven approach to
problem-solving and has managed an impressive level of continuity in sector policies across
governments of different political stripes. The water sector is a case in point. Over the course
of governments from three different political parties over 20 years and with steady engagement
by IBRD, the Uruguayan water sector has been transformed from one in which a monopoly
utility set its own standards and provided poor and inefficient service to a more accountable
and efficient one in which service provision is separated from regulation and policy definition.
The Bank has supported development of Uruguay’s water and sanitation sector for the past two
decades through three infrastructure investment loans and one technical assistance loan:

      Water Supply Rehabilitation project (1988-1999) —$22.3 million.

      OSE Modernization and Systems Rehabilitation project, APL-1 (2000-2007) — $27
      million.

      OSE Modernization and Systems Rehabilitation project, APL-2 (ongoing since 2007) —
      $50 million.

      Public Services Modernization Technical Assistance project (2001-2008) —$6 million.

Parts of several development policy loans have also helped to advance the reform agenda.
Japan also contributed a grant for water sector regulatory reform.

With one (or at times two) investment and technical assistance loans under implementation at
any one time over the past 20 years, IBRD has committed over $2 million  in supervision
resources to Uruguay’s water (and more broadly public utilities) sectors, which has allowed
IBRD’s Latin America region to field multi-sectoral teams including sector and macro
economists, engineers, specialists in pumping technology, low-cost sewerage, financial
specialists, social and environmental specialists and regulatory experts. At critical junctures,
this long-term presence allowed IBRD to produce short policy notes with snapshots of key
sector issues and possible policy options.


Results
With the help of IBRD, Uruguay’s OSE has slowly evolved from a highly inefficient water utility
into a solid one over the course of the last two decades:

      Labor productivity has improved to 4.3 employees/1,000 connections in 2006 from 12.7
      employees/1,000 connections in 1987.

      Water treatment capacity at the Aguas Corrientes treatment plant, which supplies water
      to roughly half of Uruguay’s total population, increased to 630,000 m3/day in 2006 from
      440,000 m3/day in 1988. Water quality has improved significantly through the
      introduction of re-chlorination stations at intermediate points in the transmission system,
      which has allowed OSE to maintain chlorine residuals throughout the distribution
      network. The expansion of water production capacity has allowed OSE to connect over
      235,000 additional people in metropolitan Montevideo alone.

      As a result of an internal benchmarking system established within OSE to compare
      performance across different parts of the country, OSE has introduced quality of service
      indicators and improved its performance on several key fronts: attention to commercial
      and operational claims as well as water quality are consistently rated excellent
      nationwide, while the speed with which water service is restored after a pipe break is
      excellent in almost all parts of the country. OSE’s indicators use a grading system from
      Uruguayan public schools and so are easily understood. These are regularly published
      in the press along with a commitment by OSE management to reach defined
      performance levels by clearly-defined deadlines. This creates expectations for better
      service among the general population and pressure within OSE to meet those
      expectations.

      IBRD has financed 12,300 sewage connections in 12 cities as well as three treatment
      plants in Minas, Treinta y Tres, and Durazno, providing service for 60,000 people.

      IBRD has financed the installation of 125,000 new water meters and the replacement of
      80,000 old or faulty meters, increasing the fairness of water billing.

As a result of IBRD involvement, Uruguay has created a more transparent and accountable
water sector. OSE, which formerly acted as de facto policymaker and regulator in addition to
service provider in the water sector, is now part of a wider system that includes an
autonomous water and electricity regulator, and a separate policy-making agency, created in
2006.


Toward the Future
IBRD support for Uruguay’s water and sanitation sector is continuing under the OSE
Modernization and Systems Rehabilitation project, APL-2, approved in 2007. Given OSE’s
operational improvements over the past two decades and the fact that OSE now charges water
and sanitation tariffs that are more than enough to cover all operation and maintenance
expenditures and some investment costs, the sustainability of OSE’s existing assets is assured.

The main challenge, for both the government and for OSE, is to raise additional resources to
increase sanitation coverage and sewage treatment to reach all Uruguayans. In addition, with
water and sanitation services now the exclusive purview of the public sector—resulting from a
2004 referendum—the government will need to rely on internal benchmarking (within OSE) and
external performance comparisons (through the regulator) to maintain the momentum for
continuous improvement within the company.

 
