E 1235
ECUADOR: EC-Health Insurance Project
Environmental Assessment
The overarching objective of the project is to increase the health insurance coverage of the
population in the first and second quintiles of the economy by the end of 2008. The project would
not finance any health care infrastructure or directly procure medical supplies. Consequently, the
project is not expected to have any significant or direct environmental safeguard impacts. It is
recognized, however, that the increase in coverage could potentially lead to increased generation
of healthcare wastes in health establishments that participate in the insurance scheme that would
be supported by the proposed project.
In this respect, regulations exist for the adequate management of wastes from health
establishments, including infectious and special wastes (Registro Oficial No.106, January 1997).
These regulations cover classification, segregation, storage, collection, transport, treatment and
final disposal of such wastes. In addition, the regulations address monitoring of the
implementation of the regulations and sanctions for non-compliance. Furthermore, according to
information received from the Ministry of Health, implementation of a Program for Management
of Hospital wastes (Programa de Manejo de Desechos Hospitalarios) was initiated by the
Ministry of Health in 1996. The objectives of the program were to: (i) reduce health risks to
healthcare workers from infections such as HIV/AIDS, Hepatitis B and C; and inadequate
management of infectious wastes in health establishments; and (ii) reduce environmental
pollution. An interinstitutional committee comprising representatives of the Ministry of Health,
public and private health institutions, NGOs, among others, was established. Subsequently,
interinstitutional committees were established at the provincial level, which had the responsibility
for training healthcare workers, and monitoring and evaluation of the Program within health
establishments in the provinces. Coverage of the program is equivalent to 7,669 beds in private
and state facilities in the areas of Chimborazo, Santo Domingo, Tungurahua, Cotopaxi,
Esmeraldas, Loja, Pichincha, Azuay and Manabi. Through these programs, more than 6,000
health workers have been trained and 126 workshops have been organized in the period 1998 to
date. The evaluations conducted under the program reveal that compliance with the program
increased from an average of 43 percent in 1998 to 83 percent in 2004. Furthermore, quantities of
hazardous healthcare wastes generated decreased from 23,669 kilograms in 1999 to 5,500
kilograms in 2003.
The above results indicate that there have been improvements in healthcare waste management.
In order to take precautions against any potential environmental impacts of the proposed project,
as part of the contracts between the healthcare providers and the AUS Corporation, the healthcare
providers provide evidence that their existing or planned healthcare waste management, storage,
collection, treatment and disposal systems are adequate and can accommodate any additional
waste quantities that could occur as a result of the expanded coverage. This requirement would
also be reflected in the Loan Agreement and Operational Manual for the project.


