Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1827 
Project Name 
Health Insurance Project 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Health (70%);Other social services (30%) 
Project ID 
P088575 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF ECUADOR 
Implementing Agency 
 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ecuador 
 
SODEM (Secretaria Nacional de los Objetivos de Desarrollo del 
Milenio). Ecuador 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
October 14, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 17, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
January 19, 2006 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Due to the inertia of demographic and epidemiological transition factors, some of Ecuador’s health 
indicators have improved in recent years, in a way that does not match other trends in social indicators. In 
the years 1970-2000, life expectancy rose from 58.8 years to 70 years and infant mortality fell from 30.3 
per 1,000 live births in 1990 to 18.5 per thousand in 2002 according to official statistics.  Maternal 
mortality also showed a downward trend: from 117 deaths per 100,000 births in 1990 to 55 per 100,000 in 
1998. However, confidence in this drop is low, as the reliability of child and maternal mortality data 
based on vital statistics records has been disputed, and estimations based on demographic surveys indicate 
rates that are significantly higher 
1
The aforementioned overall improvement in national health indicators has not, however, narrowed the 
substantial inequities in access to health services or and health status. On the contrary, Ecuador’s 
demographic, cultural, and social heterogeneity continues to constitute fertile ground for economic 
inequality and stark differences in living standards and health conditions. In the Amazon region, for 
example, where there is clearly a higher concentration of indigenous and poor populations, premature 
deaths are frequent and life expectancy in 1995-2000 was 59.6 years and an estimated 21 percent of the 
population would not survive more than 40 years, whereas at the other extreme, in the province of 
Pichincha, life expectancy was almost 15 years longer (74.5 years), and only 6.8 percent were expected to 
die before age 40. Similar inequities can be seen when life expectancies are compared with household 
consumption per capita. Where the populations of "poor" provinces have a lower life expectancy than 
those of provinces with greater resources 
1
For example, 2004 infant mortality rate was estimated at 40 per thousand by the United Nations Population 
Division of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs, more than twice the official figure, while PAHO 
inform for the same year a maternal mortality ratio of 81 per 100,000 births. 
Page  2
Maternal and infant mortality rates also continue to be a serious problem and are indicative of the poor 
coverage and access to the health care system. Nationally, approximately 20 percent of pregnancies run 
their course without prenatal care, but this national average disguises rates as disparate as that for 
Guayaquil, where 7 percent of mothers receive no prenatal care, and the rate for the Amazon provinces, 
where 34 percent go without care. It is estimated that approximately 30 percent of deliveries take place at 
home, but here again specific rates vary between 5 percent in Guayaquil and Quito and 50 percent in 
Amazonía (in Chimborazo, Bolívar, and Cotopaxi, the figure is 60 percent). 
 
Ecuador’s health coverage and insurance system suffers from a number of major shortcomings that affect 
access and quality of services provided.  The share of the population currently covered by contributory 
health insurance is amongst the lowest in LAC and the poorest socio-economic groups have very little 
access to health care.  More than two-thirds of the population has no contributory health insurance, and 
the Ministry of Health and other public institutions face severe constraints to provide healthcare services 
to nearly half of the population. In recent years, there have been several attempts to bring about 
improvements, but in most cases, those attempts have been partial and their results insufficient. 
 
Ecuador still has high rates of premature, infant and maternal mortality from preventable causes.  A lack 
of access to basic health services, particularly amongst the poor, continues to drive health inequalities and 
creates a scenario where life expectancy of those living in the poorest provinces is on average 15 years 
less than those in the richest provinces. 
 
Currently health insurance is supported by four public social insurance or “quasi-insurance” systems, 
covering different segments of its 12.8 million people:  (i) 
Seguro Social Obligatorio
 (SSO) covering 1.3 
million, managed by the Ecuadorian Institute of Social Security (IESS); (ii) the 
Seguro Social Campesino
 
(SSC) covering 0.9 million, also managed by IESS; (iii) the Armed Forces personnel social security 
scheme; and (iv) the National Police social security system that covers 0.4 million.  Private health 
insurance is available but only used by a small proportion of the population (0.3 million).  Recently, the 
government created a health program to finance services to pregnant women and infants (the 
Ley de 
Maternidad Gratuita
 –Free Maternity Law, LMG).  Currently, the GoE is launching 
Aseguramiento 
Universal en Salud
 (AUS – The Universal Health Insurance initiative) that aims to increase coverage 
under the existing social health insurance schemes, as well as introducing a new nominal publicly 
subsidized health insurance – 
Programa de Aseguramiento Universal en Salud
 (PROAUS) targeting 
those in the first and second income quintiles not otherwise covered by existing programs.   
 
PROAUS will finance a set of Guaranteed Services defined in the National Health System Law, for the 
first and second quintile of the population, which cannot be reached by other forms of insurance, paying 
providers expenses for those services. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The main objective of the proposed project is to assist the GoE to extend health coverage to targeted low-
income groups who otherwise have no access to health care with the goal of reducing infant, child and 
maternal mortality, as well as reducing the level of health inequalities between provinces and income 
quintiles.  The Adaptable Program Loan (APL) would finance the implementation of PROAUS, 
extending health insurance coverage individuals in income quintiles 1 and 2 over a period of 7 years.  In 
the first phase of the APL, PROAUS coverage would be initially extended to 860,000 individuals in 
income quintiles 1 and 2 living in the municipalities of Quito and Guayaquil, as well as those living in 
Page  3
Canton Santa Elena and from the provinces of Tunguragua, Cotopaxi, Chimborazo and Bolivar.  By the 
end of the implementation of APL1, 1.4 million people would be covered and served by PROAUS.  
Extending coverage should be accompanied by a reduction in a 8% of IMR, and U5MR and in a 12% of 
MMR in enrolled populations in project provinces and municipalities, as well as 5% reductions in the 
ratios of IMR (Infant Mortality Rate), U5MR and MMR (Maternal Mortality Rate) between 1- 2 and 4-5 
income quin
tiles. The project would contribute substantially to Ecuador’s ability to meet the MDGs for 
health by 2015. 
 
The project should also meet a secondary but similarly important objective of changing the operational 
culture of the health care systems. The implementation of this project should provide a new incentive 
framework through new payment arrangements and a more market-driven approach to the contracting of 
services by the AUS Corporation, promoting operational effectiveness, quality improvements and 
efficiency.  The project should also set the correct incentives for enrollment, monitoring and actual 
delivery of services.  By the end of APL Phase 1, contracts including this new incentive framework will 
be signed with the municipalities of Quito and Guayaquil, and with providers in at least 4 provinces.  
Further, the project should also contribute to the process of decentralization in the health sector by 
transferring responsibility to contract services from the MoH (Ministry of Health)to the AUS Corporation 
and to selected municipalities.   
 
Lastly, the project will contribute to strengthening the monitoring, evaluation and audit network of 
PROAUS.  This will include the strengthening of the Health Management Information Network for both 
the AUS Corporation and its providers, as well as supporting external financial and technical audit. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The World Bank has been highly active in Ecuador in recent years, maintaining a constant dialogue with 
authorities and supporting reform efforts through analytical and lending operations. The Bank’s 
involvement in the health sector dates back a number of years, although the focus has mostly been on 
public provision and management of services, and only marginally on insurance and financing. Over the 
past 10 years, the Bank has financed investment programs in the health sector, promoting the reform of 
health care provision mechanisms through two loans: the Strengthening and Expansion of Basic Health 
Services program (“FASBASE”) and the Health Sector Modernization program (“MODERSA”). In 
addition, since 2003, the Bank has supported a reform program in welfare services, health, education, and 
social security through the Programmatic Human Development Loan (PHDRL), which, among other 
goals, aims to integrate and reorganize coverage in health provided by the Free Maternity Law (LMG), 
Ecuadorian Social Security Institute (IESS) and other institutions. Sector studies and analyses have also 
been prepared, including Policy Notes on Health (presented to the Government when it took office in 
early 2003), a Labor Markets study, a Poverty Assessment, and a Public Expenditure Review. 
MODERSA has supported an analysis and design of health insurance options that established the 
foundation and backbone of the PROAUS.   
 
The discussion presented in the Policy Notes prepared in early 2003 is still relevant, and 
recommendations are applicable and consistent with those included in the World Bank paper “Policy 
Options for the Social Insurance System”. The development of the health insurance program for the poor 
would be a key improvement in the health policy framework, and has received full support of the 
Government that considers it a priority intervention.  In this context, the World Bank would not only be 
involved in the financing of the project, but given its experience in supporting similar efforts in other 
countries, it would also have an important technical role assisting in the design and development of 
PROAUS through knowledge transfer, and contribute to providing stability in the medium-term to an 
incipient project.  
Page  4
The proposed project is highly complementary with other World Bank activities in Ecuador, as well as 
with the World Bank overall strategy for the social sectors in the country. The project, by supporting 
interventions aimed at expanding access to primary health care among poor families, would contribute to 
the successful completion of several actions included under the health component of the policy matrix of 
the Programmatic Human Development Reform Loan II currently under preparation. It would also 
provide a complementary supply-side intervention to demand-side policy actions (within the PHDRL II 
and the Results-Based Transfer Project) that seek to increase use of primary health care facilities among 
mothers and young children through the 
Bono de Desarrollo Humano
,
a
conditional cash transfer 
program. More broadly the project is in line with the World Bank strategy for the social sectors in 
Ecuador, which focuses on improving access to and the quality of social services among poor families. 
 
The current situation in Ecuador provides an excellent window of opportunity for the Bank to support the 
Government in its efforts to consolidate and build on sectoral achievements by addressing health 
insurance reform. The development of PROAUS provides a key opportunity for the Government to 
improve health coverage for the poorest and reduce the huge inequity in crucial health indicators.  
Proposed Bank support would be provided under an APL framework that would support the longer term 
implementation of PROAUS, anticipated to occur in two phases over the next 7 years: phase 1 includes 
the initial launching of the health insurance scheme and enrollment of prioritized populations in quintiles 
1
and 2; phase 2 would involve full scale up to cover a larger number of persons in quintiles 1 and 2 in 
more geographic areas subject to quantitative and qualitative progress and evaluation of the initial phase 
with some changes made in accordance to lessons learned.  The implementation of PROAUS is a key 
strategic development for Poverty Reduction in Ecuador in line with CAS objectives. The Project would 
increase the very low level of health investment, focusing incremental demand and targeting of the more 
vulnerable and the poorest (Indigenous and rural people). The project would also contribute to the 
decentralization of the health system, and contribute in the medium term to the financial and political 
sustainability of PROAUS over Presidential administrations. In the first phase, it is anticipated that 
service providers would be principally the MOH, SSC and the municipalities of Quito and Guayaquil.  
Services may also potentially be delivered by NGOs, IESS and other private institutions. 
 
4. Description 
 
A
two phase APL project is proposed in the amount of US$90 million in the first phase (2006-2008), with 
two components: component 1 would establish and finance the institutional development of PROAUS; 
and component 2 would strengthen its monitoring, evaluation and continuous auditing capacity.   
 
Component 1.  Establish, develop and initial financing for the Extension of Health Coverage 
Program (PROAUS) (Loan US$74 million 
–
GOE US$5 million). 
 
This component would finance, through direct transfers to the AUS Corporation, conditional 
reimbursement of capitation premiums to fund partial expenditures incurred by PROAUS in the 
payment of services to providers. 
 
The design of the PROAUS involves the following core items: 
 
1. Eligible 
population
Persons (any age) in the first and second quintile. The beneficiaries should be registered in 
the first and second quintiles of 
Sistema de Identificación y Selección de Beneficiarios de 
los Programas Sociales
 (SELBEN) with 860,000 to be included in the first year, scaling up 
to 1,357,000 over the subsequent 2 years in the first phase of the project.  In the first phase 
Page  5
the project would include populations in quintiles 1 and 2 from the municipalities of Quito 
and Guayaquil, Canton Santa Elena and from the provinces of Tunguragua, Cotopaxi, 
Chimborazo and Bolivar.   
 
2. Benefit 
Package
The initial package to be covered by PROAUS would cover prevention at individual and 
community levels, and treatment of prioritized health conditions as defined in the 
Conjunto 
Garantizado de Prestaciones
 (CGP) in 2004.  The cost of the benefits guaranteed by the 
government per capita was estimated at US$82 per annum in a consulting study by the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health.  However, the AUS Corporation would 
pay only 20 percent of this cost to the MOH which is the incremental cost of additional care 
per patient above the financing for fixed-costs already received through budget transfers.  
As well, where the private provider is already receiving funding from the government to pay 
for patient services (i.e., 
Sociedad de Lucha Contra el Cancer
 (SOLCA), 
Sociedad de 
Beneficiencia
), the AUS Corporation would negotiate to pay a reduced percentage of the per 
capita rate to reflect the incremental cost of services delivered. 
 
3. 
Payment mechanism from AUS Corporation to providers
The AUS Corporation would use a mixed approach to the payment of providers: 
 
i. 
Community Level Services: capitation plus andincentive bonus. 
ii. 
Individual Level Preventative Services: capitation. 
iii.  Individual Level Primary Care: payment per event following technical and 
financial verification. 
iv.  Individual Level Secondary and Tertiary Care Services: Production-based 
reimbursement following technical and financial verification. 
 
Funds would be reimbursed from the Bank’s loan to the AUS (
Aseguramiento Universal de 
Salud
/Universal Health Insurance)Corporation via a single account of the National Treasury 
on the basis of bi-monthly transfers. Disbursement of loan proceeds would be done on a 
capitation basis (similar to an insurance premium) against the certified enrollment list of 
PROAUS in a scheme similar to projects recently approved by the the World Bank Board 
(Argentina - Provincial Maternal-Child Health Investment Project) for expenditures incurred 
by the Government for extending universal health insurance to the target population.  
Transfers would be subject to reporting documentation on the population covered in 
quintiles 1 and 2, purchase of services and other specific indicators to be included in the 
contract between the Corporation and providers. The transfer to be financed by the loan is 
conceptually equivalent to a contribution to finance the cost of the premium for a traditional 
health insurance scheme. 
 
To set correct incentives, the cash transfer of the capitation payment would be conducted in 
two installments: (i) 60 percent would be disbursed immediately after the provider’s register 
has been certified by the auditing unit of the AUS Corporation; and (ii) 40 percent would be 
disbursed periodically (in principle X months) after verification and certification by the 
same unit of the AUS Corporation that the provider met the production targets according to 
selected tracers
2
.
The more tracers achieved the higher the percentage of the remaining 
2
Examples of tracers could include: Number of deliveries from eligible pregnant women with at least one prenatal 
care service before the 20
th
 week per number of eligible pregnant women; number of eligible children less than 1 
year old with coverage of measles vaccine per number of eligible children less than 1 year old; number of health 
Page  6
capitation payment received.  Hence, disbursements of loan proceeds for the capitation 
payment expenditure category would be made against the certified “quasi-bill” and the 
certified tracer reports submitted by participating providers.  A list of tracers would be 
included in the Operational Manual.  
 
4. 
Evaluation of results
A
monitoring, evaluation and audit system would be developed with the support of 
component 2.  It would be comprised of a register of enrollees, including demographic data 
and the reference provider, indicators of service production, and data on community 
monitoring such as satisfaction surveys and household utilization audits.  These data would 
form the basis of disbursements to providers subject to verification of enrollment and 
service production.  In addition, the system would contribute to the further refinement of the 
resource allocation formulae.  
 
5. 
Impact of the purchasing agent on the provider side
An essential part of the reform is the creation of a new institution (AUS Corporation) that 
would receive resources from the central government for the purchase of essential services 
from providers for the poor.  This design raises potential questions regarding: (i) availability 
of provider capacity to meet the additional demand for services; (ii) increased funding to the 
public sector and its potential fiscal implications; (iii) generating of a non-competitive 
environment for private providers; and (iv) additional fragmentation in an already 
fragmented health system. 
 
The reform is being designed taking into consideration supply-side constraints and attempts 
to avoid potential inflation of health services generated by the purchase of essential services 
for the poor.  During the first APL phase, services would be purchased for the targeted 
population mainly from Ministry of Health facilities and Social Insurance institutions.  
Given that the targeted population would be largely located in marginal urban areas and 
rural areas, a large part of the provision of services would come form the SSC which has an 
estimated excess capacity of about 40 percent.  Investments in additional public sector 
infrastructure are not considered in this proposed Project but the MOH included in its 
budget some resources to continue a basic certification process of primary health care 
facilities.  Thus, the purchase of services for the targeted population constitute an additional 
demand for health services from population groups which are currently not covered by 
social insurance and the additional demand would be met using idle health providing 
capacity.  
 
An additional concern is that the purchase of services from public sector facilities and social 
insurance institutions would imply an increase in supply-side subsidies generating unfair 
competition for the private sector providers.  The purchase scheme has been designed to 
minimize this risk.  As mentioned in item 2, only 20 percent of this cost would be paid to 
the MOH, which is the incremental cost of additional care per patient above the financing 
for fixed-costs already received through budget transfers.  As well, where the private 
provider is already receiving funding from the government to pay for patient services. 
 
facilities delivering services to eligible indigenous population in which there are basic health personnel specially 
trained for treading indigenous population per number of health facilities delivering services to eligible indigenous 
population.   
Page  7
PROAUS is initially contemplated to cover 860,000 people in the lowest two quintiles.  As 
the coverage expands beyond this number (in 3 to 4 years) services would also be purchased 
from the private sector.  The average amount to be paid per capita to the private sector 
would be 100 percent so as to establish an equal playing field between public and private 
providers with the selection of provider left to the beneficiary population. 
 
Finally, PROAUS (Universal Health Insurance Program) would not constitute additional 
fragmentation of the health financing systems in Ecuador.  The beneficiary population of 
PROAUS is currently not covered by insurance and the health services would be paid out of 
general revenues.  Thus there is no additional fragmentation of risk pools.   
 
Component 2. Institutional Strengthening of Management Information Systems for 
Monitoring, Evaluation and Continuous Auditing (US$12 million) 
 
This component would support: (i) the strengthening of the Health Management Information 
Network for both AUS and its providers; (ii) provide technical assistance and personnel training that 
would support the setting of contracts, provider payments and project reimbursement; (iii) this 
component would also support external financial and technical audit (i.e., medical audits, household 
utilization audits).  Component 2 would fund software, hardware, technical assistance and training. 
Disbursement for this project would be based on standard mechanisms for investment projects via a 
special account subject to documentation of eligible expenditures.  AUS Corporation would begin 
by using the existing information system of the ISSFA.  As well, AUS Corporation through its 
technical assistance would learn from best international practice implementing similar information 
systems. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 50 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
90 
 Total 
140 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Institutions:
 
Different actors and institutions would take on various roles across principal functions:  
regulatory standards, inter-institutional coordination, financing, provision, control and monitoring and 
evaluation.  The project would be implemented by the AUS Corporation.  The AUS Corporation is a 
private institution for public purposes that would have the responsibility to purchase services on behalf of 
PROAUS beneficiaries.  The Corporation would be responsible for administering the payment network 
for the reimbursement of services and for the execution of expenses.  Further, it would also be the 
responsibility of the Corporation to execute the policies for AUS defined by CONAUS and to implement 
the norms of internal control also defined by the latter.  The Corporation would also be expected to make 
recommendations to CONAUS to adjust the regulatory framework.  MEF would be required to transfer 
resources to cover the operation of the Corporation (financing guaranteed services, operating costs, 
guarantee fund, investments required for the functioning of AUS), as well as to transfer resources to 
sustain a baseline of financing to PROAUS service providers and to strengthen the service provision 
network of the MOH and other actors.   
 
The PROAUS would be partially built on the existing Free Maternity Law 
“Ley de Maternidad Gratuita”
 
(LMG).  Even though the LMG has no target group and its payment mechanism differs from the 
Page  8
PROAUS, all the benefits included in the LGM would be covered by PROAUS. A PROAUS-LMG 
agreement would avoid financial overlapping during the first stage of the PROAUS implementation. The 
LMG would reimburse the AUS Corporation for health service expenditures on LMG beneficiaries 
covered by the PROAUS.  During the second stage of the PROAUS implementation the LMG should be 
redefined. 
 
Implementation Arrangements: 
CONAUS would be responsible for overseeing the implementation of 
PROAUS and the activities of the Corporation.  CONAUS would be expected to define the specific 
regulatory procedures for AUS.  It would also be responsible for determining standards of internal control 
and for monitoring and evaluation.   
 
Other regulatory responsibility would be undertaken by CONASA (National Health Council), the MOH 
and the IESS.  The responsibility for coordinating between the diverse actors across the system would be 
that of CONASA, who would provide the regulatory criteria with respect to coordination of services.  The 
MOH would be responsible for establishing the policies and technical norms treatment, service provision 
and licensing in accordance with the legal standards currently in force.  The IESS would define the 
technical instrument for the accreditation of providers.     
 
At the provider level a number of actors would be involved in the provision of services: MOH, IESS, 
SSC, municipalities and other private providers.  Providers would be responsible for the administration of 
the global service contract, verification and application of the regulations for internal control and 
administration of the provider information system.     
 
Implementation Capacity: 
The AUS Corporation is a new institution and a Financial Management and 
Procurement Assessments would be performed during the appraisal mission. The loan would finance the 
key Management Information Systems for Monitoring, Evaluation and Auditing, and the GoE would 
finance the staff, equipment and operating costs. The GOE would promote cross support from other 
external financed projects during the first steps of the AUS Corporation implementation.
 
Flow of Funds and Reporting: 
Funds would be reimbursed from the Bank’s loan to the AUS 
Corporation via a single account of the National Treasury on the basis of bi-monthly transfers. 
Disbursement of loan proceeds would be done on a capitation basis (similar to an insurance premium) 
against the certified enrollment list of PROAUS and indicators achieved in a scheme similar to projects 
recently approved by the Board (Argentina - Provincial Maternal-Child Health Investment Project) for 
expenditures incurred by the Government for extending universal health insurance to the target 
population.  Transfers would be subject to reporting documentation on the population covered in quintiles 
1
and 2, purchase of services and other specific indicators to be included in the contract between the 
Corporation and providers. The transfer to be financed by the loan is conceptually equivalent to a 
contribution to finance the cost of the premium for a traditional health insurance scheme. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The focus of the current Government on the development of PROAUS as a priority in its agenda, is a 
window of opportunity to provide health coverage for the poorest and reduce the large inequalities 
Ecuador has in crucial health indicators.  The proposed project is based on an APL instrument to support 
the medium term implementation of PROAUS which is planned in two phases (2006-2009, $90 million), 
2010-2013, estimated in US$105M) over the next 8 years.  An APL is the most appropriate lending 
instrument to enable not only the short term implementation of the first phase of PROAUS, but would 
also contribute to the financial and political sustainability of PROAUS in its longer-term implementation.  
 
Page  9
The Project would increase the very low level of health investment, focusing on increasing demand and 
targeting the most vulnerable and poorest particularly the indigenous and rural populations. The fiscal 
impact should be minimal for the current and next administration as the GoE monies for this project 
represent only 19.8% of the 0.32% of GDP put aside for tackling MDGs.  Further financial sustainability 
would result from the US$55M from the Ministry of Finance being used to finance FONAUS; the latter is 
being created by the GoE to provide assurance to providers that services being provided by PROAUS 
would be covered despite any economic crisis.  The project would also contribute to the decentralization 
of the health system, and contribute to sustaining, in the medium term, PROAUS once a new government 
takes office.  Rapid implementation of this project is vital to ensure grassroots support by beneficiaries 
and communities of PROAUS further strengthening and mitigating risks of longer-term political support.  
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The Bank has drawn three main
 lessons from its past experience in supporting Ecuador’s health sector 
which is reflected in the design for this project.  First, the focus on the supply side in the reform of the 
health sector in past projects has not sufficiently addressed the health needs of the poor.  The system is 
now better able to provide health services, but access to these services is still limited for the poor.  For 
this reason, the proposed project focuses on creating a mechanism by which health care coverage would 
be provided for the uninsured poor. Additionally, the new system provides incentives to more efficiently 
deliver guaranteed health services so as to improve critical public health indicators. 
 
Second, past projects and programs have failed to target the poorest.  Those that already had less access 
to basic health services benefited less from the national strategies and programs introduced. (i.e., LMG).  
This proposed project would support a clearly targeted Government strategy that would implement the 
program by phases, prioritizing the poorest in the poorest communities. 
 
Third, in the past decades, Ecuador has suffered political, economic and social instability that has limited 
the development health policy with a long-term vision. In this political context, projects supported by 
external funds were more likely to survive and maintain medium/long term development objectives. This 
proposed APL would provide the financial and technical short and medium/long term assistance needed 
to establish and implement PROAUS in phases over the next X years assuring a more sustainable health 
insurance policy in general and in particular health coverage for the poor. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  10
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
1. 
Gobierno del Ecuador. 
Ley de Maternidad Gratuita y Atención a la Infancia 
2. 
Gobierno del Ecuador. Ley Orgánica del Sistema Nacional de Salud, September 2002 
3. 
Gobierno del Ecuador. Reglamento de la Ley Orgánica del Sistema Nacional de Salud, January 
2003 
4. 
Gobierno del Ecuador. Lineamientos del Plan de Acción del Ministerio de Salud Pública 2005-
2007 
5. 
Presidencia de la Nación.. Decreto Presidencial n 345, 2003 creando Comisión Nacional de 
aseguramiento en Salud (CONAUS) 
6. 
Presidencia de la Nación.. Decreto Presidencial n 294, 2005 creando Secretaría Nacional de los 
Objetivos de Desarrollo del Milenio (SODEM) 
7. 
Presidencia de la Nación. Asamblea Constitutiva de la Corporación de Aseguramiento Universal 
en Salud. Acta 1 
8. 
Presidencia de la Nación. Asamblea de la Corporación de Aseguramiento Universal en Salud. 
Acta 2 
9. 
Ministerio de Salud Pública. Reglamento de “Manejo de Desechos Sólidos en los 
establecimientos de Salud de la República del Ecuador. Registro Oficial n 106. Enero 1997. 
10. Ministerio de Salud Pública.. Marco General de la Reforma Estructural de la Salud en el Ecuador. 
11. MODERSA, CARE –Bloomberg School of Public Health JHU. Estudio sobre la identificación 
del universo de Población descubierta y Potenciales beneficiarios del AUS. 
12. MODERSA, CARE –Bloomberg School of Public Health JHU. Estudio y evaluación sobre las 
implicaciones económicas financieras de la ampliación de la cobertura de en la implementación 
del proyecto AUS y PRO-AUS 
13. MODERSA, CARE –Bloomberg School of Public Health JHU.  Propuesta de un marco juridico 
regulatorio para el proyecto aseguramiento universal en salud 
14. Gobierno del Ecuador – Ministerio de Gobierno. Objetivos de Desarrollo del Milenio – Informe 
Preliminar. February 2005 
15. Banco Mundial. Ecuador , Una Agenda Económica y Social del Nuevo Milenio, April 2003 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Carlos Marcelo Bortman 
Title: Public Health Spec. 
Tel: (202) 458-9730 
Fax: (202) 614-0202 
Email: mbortman@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
