Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1796 
Project Name 
EC-Health Insurance Project 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Health (70%);Other social services (30%) 
Project ID 
P088575 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF ECUADOR 
Implementing Agency 
 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ecuador 
 
SODEM 
Ecuador 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [X] TBD  
Date PID Prepared 
September 12, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 17, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 15, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Ecuador’s health coverage and insurance system suffers from a number of major shortcomings that affect 
access and quality of services provided.  The share of the population currently covered by contributory 
health insurance is amongst the lowest in LAC and the poorest socio-economic groups have very little 
access to health care.  More than two-thirds of the population has no contributory health insurance, and 
the Ministry of Health and other public institutions face severe constraints to provide healthcare services 
to nearly half of the population. In recent years, there have been several attempts to bring about 
improvements, but in most cases, those attempts have been partial and their results insufficient. 
 
Ecuador still has high rates of premature, infant and maternal mortality from preventable causes.  A lack 
of access to basic health services, particularly amongst the poor, continues to drive health inequalities and 
creates a scenario where life expectancy of those living in the poorest provinces is on average 15 years 
less than those in the richest provinces. 
 
Currently health insurance is supported by four public social insurance or “quasi-insurance” systems, 
covering different segments of its 12.8 million people:  (i) 
Seguro Social Obligatorio
 (SSO) covering 1.3 
million, managed by the Ecuadorian Institute of Social Security (IESS); (ii) the 
Seguro Social Campesino
 
(SSC) covering 0.9 million, also managed by IESS; (iii) the Armed Forces personnel social security 
scheme; and (iv) the National Police social security system that covers 0.4 million.  Private health 
insurance is available but only used by a small proportion of the population (0.3 million).  Recently, the 
government created a health program to finance services to pregnant women and infants (the 
Ley de 
Maternidad Gratuita
 –Free Maternity Law, LMG).  Currently, the GoE is launching 
Aseguramiento 
Universal en Salud
 (AUS – The Universal Health Insurance initiative) that aims to increase coverage 
under the existing social health insurance schemes, as well as introducing a new nominal publicly 
Page  2
subsidized health insurance 
–
Programa de Aseguramiento Universal en Salud
 (PROAUS) targeting 
those in the first and second income quintiles not otherwise covered by existing programs.   
 
The development of a universal health insurance program has become a central issue in the Agenda. The 
GoE has since started discussing and working on the design of “its” Universal Health Insurance Program 
(AUS). Several municipalities (Guayaquil, Quito, Cotacachi, among others) had aimed to develop their 
own, separate, health insurance schemes for their local constituencies, however, none of these have fully 
developed into operational schemes.   
 
The Government strategy for the development of a Universal Health Insurance Coverage aims to expand 
health insurance coverage beyond current limits by strengthening existing insurance schemes, and 
complementing them with other options as well as additional sources of financing so that when they are 
brought together they will constitute an overall framework for health insurance. The Universal Health 
Insurance Commission has played a leading role in orchestrating a strategy to extend basic health services 
coverage, and to provide leadership with an agenda focused on laying the foundations for universal health 
insurance. The strategy has six major thrusts: 
1. 
Extend the benefits of those covered by SSO to direct family members; 
2.  Strengthen the SSC (Rural People's Social Security Insurance) to increase services quality 
and coverage; 
3. 
Strengthen the Armed Forces and Police insurance schemes; 
4.  Develop an insurance system for the families of those that have emigrated supported by 
transfers from the emigrated; 
5.  Foster the competitiveness of private insurance schemes by encouraging the purchase of 
services from public and private providers, and 
6. 
Develop mechanisms to enable the GoE to provide insurance coverage for the most 
vulnerable segments of the population.
 
To address the sixth point of this strategy, the GoE proposes to develop PROAUS, which support for 
implementation is the focus of this proposed project. PROAUS is a publicly subsidized schema for 
delivery of a package of essential health services targeting the poor and contribute to expand the services 
financed by LMG.  PROAUS will provide for a set of Guaranteed Services defined in the National Health 
System Law, for the first and second quintile of the population, which cannot be reached by other forms 
of insurance by paying providers’ expenses for those services.  PROAUS will be executed through a new 
private agency to be established for public purposes called the “AUS Corporation” that will have the role 
of purchasing services for its beneficiaries.  The AUS Corporation will be overseen by CONAUS, a 
public body established to oversee the Corporation and establish its operational regulations, supervise its 
operations and mediate any disputes between the providers and the Corporation.  The management board 
of CONAUS will be constituted by representatives of the MoH and 
Consejo Nacional de Salud 
(CONASA), the Secretariat for the MDGs (SODEM), IESS and other health related institutions.   
 
The World Bank has been highly active in Ecuador in recent years, maintaining a constant dialogue with 
authorities and supporting reform efforts through analytical and lending operations. The Bank’s 
involvement in the health sector dates back a number of years, although the focus has mostly been on 
public provision and management of services, and only marginally on insurance and financing. Over the 
past 10 years, the Bank has financed investment programs in the health sector, promoting the reform of 
health care provision mechanisms through two loans: the Strengthening and Expansion of Basic Health 
Services program (“FASBASE”) and the Health Sector Modernization program (“MODERSA”). In 
addition, since 2003, the Bank has supported a reform program in welfare services, health, education, and 
social security through the Programmatic Human Development Loan, which, among other goals, aims to 
Page  3
integrate and reorganize coverage in health provided by the Free Maternity Law (LMG), Ecuadorian 
Social Security Institute (IESS) and other institutions. Sector studies and analyses have also been 
prepared, including Policy Notes on Health (presented to the Government when it took office in early 
2003), a Labor Markets study, a Poverty Assessment, and a Public Expenditure Review. MODERSA has 
supported an analysis and design of health insurance options that established the foundation and backbone 
of the PROAUS.   
 
The discussion presented in the Policy Notes prepared in early 2003 is still relevant, and 
recommendations are applicable and consistent with those built-in the World Bank paper
 “
Policy Options 
for the Social Insurance System”. The development of the health insurance program for the poor would be 
a
key improvement in the health policy framework, and has received full support of the Government that 
considers it a priority intervention.  In this context, the World Bank financed project would assist the 
design and development of PROAUS and contribute to provide stability and medium term to an incipient 
program.  
 
The current situation in Ecuador provides an excellent window of opportunity for the Bank to support the 
Government in its efforts to consolidate and build on sectoral achievements by addressing health 
insurance reform. The development of PROAUS provides a key opportunity for the Government to 
improve health coverage for the poorest and reduce the huge inequity in crucial health indicators.  
Proposed Bank support would be provide under an APL framework  that would support the longer term 
implementation of PROAUS, anticipated to occur in two phases over the next 6 years: phase 1 includes 
the initial launching of the health insurance scheme and enrollment of prioritized populations in quintiles 
1
and 2; phase 2 will involve full scale up to cover a larger number of persons in quintiles 1 and 2 in more 
geographic areas subject to quantitative and qualitative progress and evaluation of the initial phase with 
some changes made in accordance to lessons learned.  The implementation of PROAUS is a key strategic 
development for Poverty Reduction in Ecuador inline with CAS objectives. The Project would increase 
the very low level of health investment, focusing incremental demand and targeting of the more 
vulnerable and the poorest (Indigenous and rural people). The project would also contribute to the 
decentralization of the health system, and contribute in the medium term to the financial and political 
sustainability of PROAUS over Presidential administrations. In the first phase, it is anticipated that 
service providers will be principally the MoH, SSC and the municipalities of Quito and Guayaquil.  
Services may also potentially be delivered by NGOs, IESS and other private institutions.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The main objective of the proposed project is to assist the GoE to extend health coverage to targeted low-
income groups who otherwise have no access to health care with the goal of reducing infant, child and 
maternal mortality, as well as reducing the level of health inequalities between provinces and income 
quintiles. The PROAUS will introduce incentives to the health providers for increase health services and 
promote health service utilization in the target group.  The APL would finance the implementation of 
PROAUS, extending health insurance coverage individuals in income quintiles 1 and 2 over a period of 7 
years.  In the first phase of the APL, PROAUS coverage would be initially extended to 860,000 
individuals in income quintiles 1 and 2 living in the municipalities of Quito and Guayaquil, as well as 
those living in the regions of Canton Santa Elena and from Province of Tunguragua, Cotopaxi, 
Chimborazo and Bolivar.  By the end of the implementation of APL1, 1.38 million people would be 
covered and served by PROAUS.  Extending coverage should be accompanied by a reduction in a 10% of 
IMR, and U5MR and in a 15% of MMR in enrolled populations in project provinces and municipalities, 
as well as 10% reductions in the rations of IMR, U5MR and MMR between 1- 2 and 4-5 income 
quintiles. The project would contribute substantially to Ecuador’s ability to meet the MDGs for health by 
2015. 
Page  4
The project should also meet a secondary but similarly important objective of changing the operational 
culture of the health care systems. The implementation of this project should provide a new incentive 
framework through new payment arrangements and a more market-driven approach to the contracting of 
services by the AUS Corporation, promoting operational effectiveness, quality improvements and 
efficiency.  The project should also set the correct incentives for enrollment, monitoring and actual 
delivery of services.  By the end of APL Phase 1, contracts including this new incentive framework will 
be signed with the municipalities of Quito and Guayaquil, and with providers in at least 4 provinces.  
Further, the project should also contribute to the process of decentralization in the health sector by 
transferring responsibility to contract services from the MoH to the AUS Corporation and to selected 
municipalities.   
 
Lastly, the project will contribute to strengthening the monitoring, evaluation and audit network of 
PROAUS.  This will include the strengthening of the Health Management Information Network for both 
the AUS Corporation and its providers, as well as supporting external financial and technical audit. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
A
two phase APL project is proposed, in the amount of US$ 90 million in the first phase (2006-2008) 
with two components: component 1 will establish and finance the institutional development of PROAUS; 
and component 2 will strengthen its monitoring, evaluation and continuous auditing capacity.  The costs 
and activities presented below are indicative and will be prioritized and refined in the process of project 
preparation.  The regions and municipalities to be included in this project will be determined over the 
course of the project preparation.    
 
Component 1.  Establish, develop and initial financing for the Extension of Health Coverage 
Program (PROAUS) (US$ 77 million). 
 
This component will finance, through direct transfers to the AUS Corporation, conditional 
reimbursement of capitation premiums to fund partial expenditures incurred by PROAUS in the 
payment of services to providers. 
 
The design of the PROAUS involves the following core items: 
 
1- Eligible population
All population (any age) in the first and second quintile. The beneficiaries should be 
registered in the first and second quintiles of the 
Sistema de Identificacion y Seleccion de 
Beneficiarios de los Programas Sociales
 (SELBEN) with 860,000 to be included in the first 
year, scaling up to 1,357,000 over the next 2 years in the first phase of the project.  The GoE 
has tentatively prioritized populations from across the country with the largest planned 
enrollment in the states of Guayas (city of Guayaquil), Pichincha (city of Quito), Tungurahua 
and Manabi.  The World Bank team will work with the GoE review the prioritization of the 
eligible population during project preparation. Priorities are likely to be based both on 
population needs and capacity to implement by geographic region.   
 
2- Benefit Package
The initial package to be covered by PROAUS will include prevention at individual and 
community levels, and treatment of prioritized health conditions as defined in the 
Conjunto 
Garantizado de Prestaciones
 (CGP) in 2004.  The cost of the benefits guaranteed by the 
government per capita was estimated at US$82 per annum in a consulting study by the Johns 
Page  5
Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health.   However, the AUS Corporation will pay only 
20 percent of this cost to the MoH which is the incremental cost of additional care per patient 
above the financing for fixed-costs already received through budget transfers.  As well, where 
the private provider is already receiving funding from the government to pay for patient 
services (i.e. 
Sociedad de Lucha Contra el Cancer 
(SOLCA), 
Sociedad de Beneficienci
a), the 
AUS Corporation will negotiate to pay a reduced percentage of the per capita rate to reflect 
the incremental cost of services delivered. 
 
3- Payment mechanism from AUS Corporation to providers
The AUS corporation will use a mixed approach to the payment of providers: 
 
(i) 
Community Level Services: capitation plus and incentive bonus. 
(ii)  Individual Level Preventative Services: capitation. 
(iii) Individual Level Primary Care: payment per event following technical and financial 
verification. 
(iv) Individual Level Secondary and Tertiary Care Services: Production based 
reimbursement following technical and financial verification. 
During the preparation of the proposed project, the World Bank team will work with the GoE 
to strengthen the incentive component of the payment arrangements to set correct incentives 
for enrollment, monitoring and actual delivery of services.    
 
 
Funds will be reimbursed from the Bank’s loan to the AUS Corporation via a single account 
of the National Treasury on the basis of bi-monthly transfers. Disbursement of loan proceeds 
will be done on a capitation basis (similar to an insurance premium) against the certified 
enrollment list of PROAUS in a scheme similar to projects recently approved by the Board 
(Argentina - Provincial Maternal-Child Health Investment Project) for expenditures incurred 
by the Government for extending universal health insurance to the target population.  
Transfers will be subject to reporting documentation on the population covered in quintiles 1 
and 2, purchase of services and other specific indicators to be included in the contract 
between the Corporation and providers. The transfer to be financed by the loan is 
conceptually equivalent to a contribution to finance the cost of the premium for a traditional 
health insurance scheme. 
 
4- Evaluation of results
A
monitoring, evaluation and audit system will be developed with the support of component 
2.  It will be comprised of a register of enrollees, including demographic data and the 
reference provider, indicators of service production, and data on community monitoring such 
as satisfaction surveys and household utilization audits.  These data will form the basis of 
disbursements to providers subject to verification of enrollment and service production.  In 
addition, the system will contribute to the further refinement of the resource allocation 
formulae.  
 
Component 2. Institutional Strengthening of Management Information Systems for 
Monitoring, Evaluation and Continuous Auditing (US$ 13 million) 
 
This component will: (i) the strengthen of the Health Management Information Network for both 
AUS and its providers; (ii) provide technical assistance and personnel training that will support the 
setting of contracts, provider payments and project reimbursement; (iii) support external financial 
Page  6
and technical audit (i.e. medical audits, household utilization audits).  Component 2 will fund 
software, hardware, technical assistance and training. Disbursement for this project will be based on 
standard mechanisms for investment projects via a special account subject to documentation of 
eligible expenditures.  Further analysis is required as to whether the Corporation can administer the 
special account; if not, the Government of Ecuador has committed to finding a legally viable and 
technically feasible option to the administration of this component.  
 
During the preparation of the proposed loan, the World Bank team will seek clarification on: 
(a)  Legal status, financial and institutional arrangements of PROAUS 
(b)  Clarification of providers by region and evidence of underutilized capacity 
(c)  Criteria for selection of regions 
(d)  Criteria for the selection of beneficiaries 
(e)  Flow of funds, payment arrangements and payment triggers 
(f)  Fiscal impact and sustainability 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
The project will not finance any health care infrastructure or directly procure medical supplies. 
Consequently, the project is not expected to have any significant or direct environmental safeguard 
impacts. It is recognized, however, that the increase in coverage could potentially lead to increased 
generation of healthcare wastes in health establishments that participate in the insurance scheme that will 
be supported by the proposed project.  
 
In order to take precautions against any potential environmental impacts of the proposed project, as part 
of the contracts between the AUS Corporation and the healthcare providers, the healthcare providers 
provide evidence that their existing or planned healthcare waste management, storage, collection and 
disposal systems are adequate and can accommodate any additional waste quantities that could occur as a 
result of the expanded coverage. This requirement will also be reflected in the Loan Agreement for the 
project.  
 
An Indigenous Peoples Plan is being prepared by the Government. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 5 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
90 
 Total 
95 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Carlos Marcelo Bortman 
Title: Public Health Spec. 
Tel: (202) 458-9730 
Fax: (202) 614-0202 
Email: mbortman@worldbank.org 
 
