                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                         Report No: NCO0000814




                  NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION REPORT
                                   (IBRD-73610)




                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$90.0 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR

                                       FOR A

    HEALTH INSURANCE STRATEGY FOR THE POOR SUPPORT PROJECT

                   IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE

                  UNIVERSAL HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM




                                    July 14, 2008




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          Ecuador Currency Unit = US$ 1.00

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 ­ December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL     Adaptable Program Loan
AUS     Universal Health Insurance (Aseguramiento Universal de Salud)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CCAUS   Health Insurance System Council (Consejo Consultivo del Sistema de Aseguramiento
         Universal en Salud)
CONASA  National Health Council (Consejo Nacional de Salud)
FASBASE Strengthening and Expansion of Basic Health Services Program
GOE      Government of Ecuador
HISP     Health Insurance Strategy for the Poor (Estrategia de Seguridad Social para los pobres)
IESS     Ecuadorian Social Security Institute (Instituto Ecuatoriano de Seguridad Social)
IMR      Infant Mortality Rate
INEC     National Institute of Statistics and Census (Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas y Censos)
IPP      Indigenous Peoples Plan
ISSFA    Armed Forces Social Security Institute (Instituto de Seguridad Social de las Fuerzas
         Armadas)
ISSPOL   National Police Social Security Institute (Instituto de Seguridad Social de la Policía
         Nacional)
LAC      Latin American and the Caribbean
LMG      Free Maternity Law (Ley de Maternidad Gratuita)
MDGs     Millennium Development Goals
MEF      Ministry of Economy and Finance
MMR      Maternal Mortality Rate
MODERSA  Health Sector Modernization Program (Programa de Modernización del Sector Salud)
MOH      Ministry of Health
NGO      Non-Governmental Organizations
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PAHO     Pan American Health Organization
PHDRL    Programmatic Human Development Reform Loan
PROAUS   Universal Health Insurance Program (Programa de Aseguramiento Universal de Salud)
SELBEN   Social Program's Beneficiaries Database System (Sistema de Identificación y Selección de
         Beneficiarios de los Programas Sociales)
SODEM    Secretaría Nacional de los Objetivos de Desarrollo del Milenio (National Secretariat for the
         Milenium Development Goals)
SSC      Rural People's Social Security Insurance (Seguro Social Campesino)
SSO      General Obligatory Insurance (Seguro Social Obligatorio)
U5MR     Under 5 Mortality Rate

     Vice President: Pamela Cox
   Country Director: Carlos Felipe Jaramillo
     Sector Director: Evangeline Javier
    Sector Manager: Keith Hansen
Project Team Leader: Marcelo Bortman
NCO Team Leader : Marcelo Bortman

                                                  ECUADOR
 HEALTH INSURANCE STRATEGY FOR THE POOR SUPPORT PROJECT




                                                 CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs




 2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation....................................................... 6
 3. Assessment of Bank Performance........................................................................................... 7
 4. Assessment of Borrower Performance.................................................................................... 7
 5. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................................... 8
 Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes........................... 9
 Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents.................................................................................. 10
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                   Health Insurance
Country:              Ecuador                Project Name:         Strategy for the Poor
                                                                   Support Project
Project ID:           P088575                L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-73610
NCO Date:             07/25/2008
                                                                   GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:   APL                    Borrower:
                                                                   ECUADOR
Original Total
                      USD 90.0M              Disbursed Amount:     USD 0.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
SODEM
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process            Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                             Date(s)
Concept Review:      09/06/2005     Effectiveness:        09/08/2006       09/08/2006
Appraisal:           10/17/2005     Closing:              06/30/2010       06/30/2010
Approval:            02/16/2006


C. Ratings Summary
Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                    Not Applicable
Risk to Development Outcome:                 Not Applicable
Bank Performance:                            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                        Unsatisfactory



D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Compulsory health finance                                    55
Health                                                       45


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Child health                                               Secondary
Decentralization                                           Secondary



                                             i

Health system performance                                   Primary
Other social protection and risk management                 Primary
Population and reproductive health                         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At NCO                     At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                     Pamela Cox
Country Director:         Carlos Felipe Jaramillo        Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager:           Keith E. Hansen                Keith E. Hansen
Project Team Leader:      Carlos Marcelo Bortman         Carlos Marcelo Bortman
NCO Team Leader:          Carlos Marcelo Bortman
NCO Primary Author:       Carlos Marcelo Bortman



F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
No.     Date ISR
        Archived                 DO                    IP               Disbursements
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1     06/16/2006            Satisfactory         Satisfactory                   0.00
  2     10/10/2006            Satisfactory         Satisfactory                   0.00
  3     04/17/2007            Satisfactory         Satisfactory                   1.00
  4     05/23/2007          Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                 1.00
  5     12/13/2007          Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                 1.00




                                               ii

1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design

Country Background. Ecuador's health care market suffers from a number of distortions, in
particular the fact that it is highly fragmented, which has led to an inefficient, inequitable, poor
quality and largely inaccessible system with over 70 percent of the population uninsured. Since as
in most of the LAC region, access to health insurance is tied to formal employment the share of
the population currently covered by contributory health insurance is amongst the lowest in LAC
and the poorest socio-economic groups have very little access to health care. More than two-
thirds of the population has no contributory health insurance, and the Ministry of Health (MOH)
and other public institutions face severe constraints to provide healthcare services to nearly half
of the population. In recent years, there have been several attempts to bring about improvements,
but in most cases, those attempts have been partial and their results insufficient. This Project was
designed to serve as an important step in tackling some of these distortions by targeting health
insurance to the poorest and most vulnerable and by setting down the foundations for an
envisioned Universal Health Insurance System.

Due to demographic trends and epidemiological transition factors, some of Ecuador's health
indicators have improved in recent years unlike trends in other social indicators. Between 1970-
2000, life expectancy increased from 58.8 to 70 years. Infant mortality fell from 30.3 per 1,000
live births in 1990 to 23.3 per 1,000 in 2004 according to official statistics (INEC and MOH).
Maternal mortality also showed a downward trend falling from 117 deaths per 100,000 births in
1990 to 76.4 per 100,000 in 2004 (INEC and MOH). However, the reliability of infant and
maternal mortality data based on vital statistics records has been disputed and estimates based on
demographic surveys indicate rates that are significantly higher.1

Sector Background:               Despite these overall improvements in national health indicators,
underlying inequalities in access to health services and health status remained mainly as a
consequence of the high rates of uninsured and the heterogeneity of the health care system.
Ecuador's demographic, cultural, and social heterogeneity continued to constitute fertile ground
for economic inequality and stark differences in living standards and health conditions. In the
Amazon region, for example, where there is a higher concentration of indigenous and poor
populations, premature deaths are frequent and life expectancy from 1995-2000 was unchanged at
59.6 years. An estimated 21 percent of the population in the Amazon was not expected to survive
more than 40 years, whereas at the other extreme, in the province of Pichincha, life expectancy
was almost 15 years longer (74.5 years), and only 6.8 percent of the population was expected to
die before age 40. Similar inequalities can be seen in life expectancies by level of incomes,
where the populations of "poor" provinces have a lower life expectancy than those of provinces
with greater resources.

Despite the efforts of the Government of Ecuador (GOE) to improve maternal and child health
through the program of the Free Maternity Law (Ley de Maternidad Gratuita), maternal and
infant mortality rates also continued to be a serious problem and were indicative of the continuing
poor coverage and access to health care. Nationally, approximately 20 percent of pregnancies run
their course without prenatal care; this national average disguised rates as disparate as those



1 For example, in 2004, the infant mortality rate was estimated at 40 per 1,000 by the United Nations Population
Division of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs, almost twice the official figure, while PAHO estimated a
maternal mortality ratio of 81 per 100,000 births in the same year.




                                                           1

between Guayaquil, where 7 percent of mothers received no prenatal care, and the Amazon
provinces, where 34 percent went without care. It was estimated that approximately 30 percent of
deliveries took place at home, but here again specific rates vary between 5 percent in Guayaquil
and Quito, and 50 percent in the Amazonía region (in the provinces of Chimborazo, Bolívar, and
Cotopaxi the figure is 60 percent).

Health insurance was provided through four public social insurance or "quasi-insurance" systems,
covering different segments of its 12.8 million people: (i) Seguro Social Obligatorio (SSO)
covering 1.3 million, managed by the Ecuadorian Institute of Social Security (IESS); (ii) the
Seguro Social Campesino (SSC) covering 0.9 million, also managed by IESS; (iii) the Armed
Forces personnel social security scheme; and (iv) the National Police social security system that
covered 0.4 million. Private health insurance was available but only used by a small proportion
of the population (0.3 million). Recently, the government created a health program to finance
services to pregnant women and infants (the Ley de Maternidad Gratuita ­Free Maternity Law,
LMG). The GOE launched on October 3, 2006 Aseguramiento Universal en Salud (AUS ­ The
Universal Health Insurance initiative) that aimed to increase coverage by coordinating existing
social health insurance schemes, as well as by introducing a new nominal publicly subsidized
health insurance--Programa de Aseguramiento Universal en Salud (PROAUS)--that was
expected to extend coverage to those in the first and second income quintiles not otherwise
covered by existing insurance. PROAUS was to finance a set of Guaranteed Services included in
the National Health System Law, for the first and second quintile of the population, which could
not be reached by other forms of insurance, paying providers expenses for those services. In this
way, PROAUS was expected to be an important first step towards a universal health insurance
system that could address key problems of efficiency and equality in the system.

Rationale for Bank Assistance. At the time the Project was approved, the World Bank had
been highly active in Ecuador, maintaining a constant dialogue with authorities and supporting
reform efforts through analytical and lending operations. The Bank's involvement in the health
sector dated back a number of years, although the focus had mostly been on public provision and
management of services, and only marginally on insurance and financing. Over the past 10 years,
the Bank had financed investment programs in the health sector, promoting the reform of health
care provision mechanisms through two loans: the Strengthening and Expansion of Basic Health
Services program ("FASBASE") and the Health Sector Modernization program ("MODERSA").
In addition, since 2003, the Bank had supported a reform program in welfare services, health,
education, and social security through the Programmatic Human Development Loan, which,
among other goals, aimed to integrate and reorganize coverage in health provided by the Free
Maternity Law (LMG), Ecuadorian Social Security Institute (IESS) and other institutions. Sector
studies and analyses had also been prepared, including Policy Notes on Health (presented to the
Government when it took office in early 2003), a Labor Markets study, a Poverty Assessment,
and a Public Expenditure Review. MODERSA had supported an analysis and design of health
insurance options that established the foundation and backbone of the PROAUS.

The development of the health insurance program for the poor was to be a key improvement in
the health policy framework, and received full support of the Government that considered it a
priority intervention. In this context, the World Bank was to be involved in supporting the
implementation of the program and given its experience in supporting similar efforts in other
countries, it was also expected to have an important technical role assisting in the design and
development of PROAUS through knowledge transfer, and contributed to providing stability in
the medium-term to the program.




                                                2

The Project was highly complementary with other World Bank activities in Ecuador, as well as
with the Bank's overall strategy for the social sectors in the country. The Project, by supporting
interventions aimed at expanding access to primary health care among poor families, contributed
to the successful completion of several actions included under the health component of the policy
matrix of the Programmatic Human Development Reform Loan II. It also provided a
complementary supply-side intervention to demand-side policy actions (within the PHDRL II and
the Results-Based Transfer Project) that seek to increase use of primary health care facilities
among mothers and young children through the Bono de Desarrollo Humano, a conditional cash
transfer program. More broadly the Project was in line with the World Bank strategy for the
social sectors in Ecuador, which focused on improving access to and the quality of social services
among poor families.

The implementation of PROAUS was also a key strategic development for poverty reduction in
Ecuador in line with CAS objectives. The Project was expected to increase the very low levels of
health investments, targeting incremental demand to the more vulnerable and the poorest
(Indigenous and rural people). The Project was also expected to contribute to the decentralization
of the health system, and in the medium term to the financial and political sustainability of
PROAUS. In the first phase, it was anticipated that service providers were to be principally the
MOH, SSC and the municipalities of Quito and Guayaquil. Services were also expected to be
delivered by NGOs, IESS and other private institutions.

Development Objective and Key Indicators of the Ecuador Health Insurance
Strategy for the Poor Support Project

A two phase APL project was approved in the amount of US$90 million in the first phase (2006-
2009). The second phase was expected to be implemented from 2010-2013. The main objective
of the APL was to assist the GOE to implement health insurance coverage to targeted low-income
groups who otherwise had no access to health care with the goal of reducing infant, child and
maternal mortality, as well as reducing the level of health inequalities between provinces and
income quintiles. The APL was expected to support and ensure the implementation of PROAUS,
extending health insurance coverage to individuals in income quintiles 1 and 2 over a period of 8
years or less. In the first phase of the APL (2006-2009), PROAUS coverage was initially to be
extended to 400,000 individuals in income quintiles 1 and 2 living in the municipalities of Quito
and Guayaquil and from the provinces of Tunguragua, Cotopaxi, Chimborazo, Bolivar and
Manabi. It was also expected that by the end of the implementation of the first phase, 1.4 million
people were to be covered and served by PROAUS. Because the APL was not implemented none
of the above targeted objectives were achieved.

The extended coverage was expected to lead to changes in Project outcome indicators. During
the first phase the Project was expected to decrease the IMR and U5MR in the enrolled
population by 5 percent from the baseline; the MMR in the enrolled populations by 10 percent
decrease from the baseline; a 5 percent reduction in the ratios of IMR, U5MR and MMR
between income quintiles 1-2 and 4-5 in enrolled areas; and a 5 percent reduction in out-of-
pocket health care expenditures of the enrolled population.        The Project was expected to
contribute substantially to Ecuador's ability to meet the MDGs for health by 2015.

The Project was also expected to meet a secondary but similarly important objective of changing
the operational culture of the health care systems. The implementation of this Project was
expected to provide a new incentive framework through new payment arrangements and a
regulated market approach to the contracting of services by the SODEM, promoting operational
effectiveness, quality improvements and efficiency. The Project was also expected to set the


                                                 3

correct incentives for enrollment, monitoring and actual delivery of services. By the end of the
first phase of the APL, contracts including this new incentive framework were expected to be
signed with the municipalities of Quito and Guayaquil, and with providers in at least 5 provinces.
Further, the Project was to contribute to the process of deconcentration in the health sector by
transferring responsibility to contract services from the MOH to the SODEM and to selected
municipalities.

Lastly, the Project was designed to contribute to strengthening the monitoring, evaluation and
audit network of PROAUS. This was expected to include the strengthening of the Health
Management Information Network for both SODEM and its providers, as well as supporting
external financial and technical audits.

Components

The first phase of the APL had two components: Component 1 was expected to strengthen
monitoring, evaluation and continuous auditing capacity of PROAUS; and Component 2 was
expected to support the implementation of HISP of which PROAUS is a part. Project design had
contemplated that if the Project were to have been implemented more rapidly than anticipated, it
could have moved into the second phase ahead of schedule.

     Component 1. Institutional Strengthening of Management Information Systems for
     Monitoring, Evaluation and Continuous Auditing (US$13 million)

      This component was expected to support: (i) strengthening the Health Management
      Information Network for both AUS and its providers and coordinating with other health care
      sub-systems; (ii) provision of technical assistance and personnel training that supported the
      setting of contracts, provider payments and Project transfers; (iii) carrying out of external
      financial and technical audits (i.e., medical audits, household utilization audits); and (iv) the
      implementation of a communications strategy to strengthen awareness, utilization and
      support for PROAUS at the grassroots level.          This component was to fund software,
      hardware, technical assistance and training. Disbursements under this component were to be
      based on standard mechanisms for investment projects via a Special Account subject to
      documentation of eligible expenditures. SODEM was expected to begin by using the
      existing information system of the ISSFA. In addition, SODEM, through its technical
      assistance, was expected to learn from best international practice in the implementation of
      similar information systems.

     Component 2. Provision of Support for the Implementation and Development of the
     Health Insurance Strategy for the Poor (US$77 million)

      This component was to support the implementation of the HISP through performance-based
      disbursements to the GOE where the amounts to be disbursed were to be conditioned on the
      achievement of the performance matrix (Matriz de Desempeño, which was based on defined
      capitation premiums and performance indicators). These transfers were to contribute to
      guaranteeing human capital protection by the GOE.

      The conditional transfers were to be based on the negotiated capitation premium, the
      achievement of the full implementation of service arrangements and on PROAUS
      performance goals defined in the Performance Matrix. Each of the quarterly disbursements
      were to be based on the population covered by the PROAUS and the number of



                                                  4

      performance indicators achieved by each health provider, as defined in the performance
      matrix.

Implementation Arrangements

The Consejo Consultivo del Sistema de Aseguramiento Universal en Salud (CCAUS) would have
been responsible for overseeing the implementation of PROAUS. CCAUS would have been
expected to define the specific regulatory procedures for AUS.             It would have also been
responsible for determining standards of internal control and for monitoring and evaluation.

If the Project had been implemented, other regulatory responsibilities would have been
undertaken by the MOH with the support of CONASA and the IESS. The responsibility for
coordinating between the diverse actors across the National Health System would have been that
of CONASA, who would have provided the regulatory criteria with respect to coordination of
services. The MOH would have been responsible for establishing the policies and technical
norms treatment, service provision and licensing in accordance with the legal standards currently
in force. The IESS would have defined the technical instrument for the accreditation of providers.

At the provider level a number of actors would have been involved in the provision of services:
MOH, IESS, SSC, municipalities and other private providers.             Providers would have been
responsible for the administration of the global service contracts, verification and application of
the regulations for internal control and administration of the provider information system.

Critical risks and possible controversial aspects of the Project

Risk                                         Mitigation

The macroeconomic risk facing Ecuador at     Preliminary estimations suggested that the implementation of this
the time of project preparation and fiscal   Project would have had a modest fiscal impact because 85 percent of
capacity could have affected implementation  its resources would have been transfers to finance the recurrent cost of
of the investment Project                    PROAUS.

Level of Risk: Moderate

The Project execution would have taken place Clear     definition    of     mission,    function     and    internal
via a new institution which was dependent on operational/regulation structure of the SODEM and the mechanism of
strong inter-agency coordination.            inter-agency coordination would have been stated in legal document

Level of Risk: Moderate                      for negotiation.


The Project implementation in the first year A complete Project Implementation Plan and a Procurement Plan were
was expected to be slow.                     completed and the Project design included technical assistance for the

Level of Risk: High                          SODEM. The Operational Manual had been prepared as well as drafts
                                             of the Institutional Cooperation Agreements.

The full implementation of PROAUS would      The 2-phase APL lending instrument was to contribute to mitigating
have required approximately a 10-year period this risk and provide a tool for new governments to support the full
and long-term government support despite the implementation of PROAUS. The APL would have also provided the
expected changes in government.              opportunity to redesign PROAUS in the second phase of

Level of Risk: High                          implementation.


The development of a comprehensive Health    SODEM was to begin by using the existing information system of the
Management Information System would have     ISSFA. As well, SODEM through its technical assistance was to learn



                                                 5

Risk                                          Mitigation

required a long period of design and           from best international practice of similar information systems.
implementation.

Level of Risk: Moderate

Transfers from MEF to SODEM would not          The incentives of the performance matrix were to ensure timely
occur in a timely manner.                      transfers.

Level of Risk: Moderate

Risk that indigenous populations are excluded  The GOE had undertaken an IPP to identify any potential problems
enrollment from PROAUS.                        and to mitigate these in the preparation and implementation of the

Level of Risk: Low                             project. Conditions for disbursement included the condition that 40
                                               percent of enrolled parroquias had a concentration of at least 50
                                               percent Indigenous population.

Risk that there may have been union actions if MOH had met with the unions in the preparation of the Project to
they saw PROAUS as a threat.                   inform them of the Project and involve them in its implementation

Level of Risk: Moderate                        process.


Fiduciary    risk caused   by    errors   and  To reduce the risks of manipulation of the lists (non-existent persons,
manipulation of the lists of registered        duplicates, persons not in quintiles 1 or 2 etc.) a monitoring, evaluation
beneficiaries:                                 and continuous auditing system was to be developed to create a

Level of Risk: High                            register of enrollees, including demographic data, the reference
                                               provider, indicators of service production. Project design provided for
                                               institutional strengthening and capacity for continuous auditing.


Quality at Entry:

The quality of the sector diagnosis, objectives, indicators, feasibility studies, design, and
implementation arrangements are considered satisfactory.

The design of the Project included the participation of both the Ministry of Health (MOH) and
SODEM (Secretaría de Objetivos de Desarrollo para el Milenio), and the initial support of the
Vice Presidency and Presidency of the Administration at that time. The Consortium Care-
Hopkins was hired through the financing of MODERSA to carry out a series of studies that
permitted establishing the baseline/foundation for the design of the health services packages and
costing (primary care level and secondary care level) of the Project.

2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation.

The US$90 million loan for the Project was approved on February 16, 2006, signed on June 5,
2006 and declared effective on June 6, 2006. There was some delay during the first weeks of
Project implementation, as a result of the lack of operational experience of the implementing
agency and the imminent change of Government.

The Borrower requested the first loan disbursement in the amount of US$1 million on December
24, 2006, just 20 days before the change of Government administration. Initial funds were
allocated to finance some of the initial operational activities, mainly hiring of personnel.
However, three weeks later, the new Administration decided not to start implementation of




                                                   6

projects financed by the World Bank. On the sectoral side, one of the new Administration's first
actions was to dissolve the SODEM, which contributed to weakening the sectoral dialogue.

A World Bank mission visited Ecuador in the beginning of March, 2007 to work with officials in
the Ministry of Health, explore alternative options to implement the Project, introducing changes
in its design, if necessary. The team organized a visit to Argentina with the new MOH insurance
team to supervise the findings of a similar operation that was implemented in Argentina.
However, the new Administration cancelled the trip and requested the cancellation of the Bank's
loan.

Due to the political context during that time, which led to the cancellation of loans for other
Bank-financed projects, the Bank decided strategically to postpone its official response to gain
time to find a solution to this matter and to re-establish dialogue with the new Government. The
Government, however, maintained its position with respect to the projects financed by the Bank.
A letter cancelling the US$1 million loan balance was sent to the Government on August 27,
2007.

The GOE fully reimbursed the disbursed amount of US$1.0 million on January 9, 2008.

3. Assessment of Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

Since the project's implementation did not proceed, this assessment only refers to the quality of
Bank performance during the preparation phase of the project. The team considers that the Bank
performance in project preparation was satisfactory because the preparation process was very
participatory and there was an open dialogue with the Government. This collaborative work
contributed to develop a very innovative design and within the estimated completion times. The
Bank responded quickly to the Government's requests and the US$90 million loan for the Project
was approved in a very fast track mode on February 16, 2006, in response to the Government's
request.
The inability to continue financing the implementation of this Project was due to the
Government's position of cancelling all financing from the Bank.              In retrospect during
preparation, the Bank should have flagged the imminent change in Administration explicitly as a
risk to implementation of the Project.

4. Assessment of Borrower Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory.

The former Government, through the SODEM, the MOH and the Presidency, was deeply
committed during the Project design and preparation. The national teams worked expeditiously
and productively to prepare the Project's technical support documents, and to reach a detailed
Project design. This contributed to a quick preparation of the loan, supported by high quality
information. The Project design also included a very challenging and innovative performance-
based design. This design introduced conditional cash transfers based on the negotiated capitation
premium, and the achievement of performance goals defined in the Performance Matrix. The
former government counterparts were committed to addressing the challenges and risks for
implementation of the innovative project design.




                                                  7

After the change in Administration on July 15, 2007, the Government first stopped Project
activities, and later requested cancellation of this loan together with other then recently approved
Bank loans. As a result, the outcome of the Borrower's performance is considered unsatisfactory.


5. Lessons Learned

The main lesson learned from the preparation of this project is that the risk of a change in
administration was underestimated.        The Bank's preparation team assumed that the new
Administration would seek continuity of universal health policies as a national policy. Although
the Bank team attempted to engage technical staff from the new administration and the Bank
team planned to organize a workshop with new authorities to introduce the Project, these actions
were not sufficient to initiate the implementation of the Project. The political context at that time
did not facilitate the World Bank's role as a financier of the Health Insurance program. The new
administration defined a new strategy and opted for alternative sources of financing.




                                                  8

Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


            Names                            Title                 Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Yewande Aramide Awe                 Sr Environmental Engr.        LCSEN      Envirnoment
Patricia M. Bernedo                Senior Program Assistant       LCSHH          ACS
Carlos Marcelo Bortman               Sr Public Health Spec.       LCSHH          TTL
Que P. Bui                             Procurement Asst.          LCSHH          ACS

Nelson Gutierrez                          Consultant              LCSHH      HD Operations
                                                                                Officer

Ana Lucia Jimenez Nieto         Financial Management Analyst      LCSFM        Financial
                                                                             Management

Patricia Mc Kenzie              Sr Financial Management Specia    OPCFM        Financial
                                                                             Management
Isabella Micali Drossos                   Sr Counsel              LEGLA          Legal
Monique Francine Mrazek               Investment Officer         CGMGT        Investments
Marcelo Amador Osorio                     Consultant              LCSPT       Procurement
Ximena B. Traa-Valarezo                   Consultant              LCSHE         Social
Morag N. Van Praag                   Senior Finance Officer      LOADM       Disbursement
Supervision/NCO

Nelson Gutierrez                          Consultant              LCSHH      HD Operations
                                                                                Officer

Ana Lucia Jimenez Nieto         Financial Management Analyst      LCSFM        Financial
                                                                             Management
Monique Francine Mrazek               Investment Officer         CGMGT        Investments




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
       Stage of Project Cycle
                                         No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                                                      139.58
  FY07                                                                        0.00
  FY08                                                                        0.00
                             Total:                                         139.58
Supervision/NCO
  FY06                                                                       34.02
  FY07                                                                       84.81
  FY08                                                                       27.03
                             Total:                                         145.86




                                               9

Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents

  1. World Bank ­ Project Appraisal Document, Report Nr. 34488-EC. January 3, 2006.

  2. Ayudas Memorias, World Bank.

  3. Implementation Status Reports (ISRs).




                                          10

