Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7361-EC 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Health Insurance Strategy for the Poor Support Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 5, 2006
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7361-EC 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 5, 2006 between REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (
“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II
—LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to 
in this Agreement, the amount of ninety million dollars, as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.08 of this Agreement
 (“Loan”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to:  (i) eighty five one-
hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which the Commitment 
Charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 of the 
General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy 
five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter; subject in either case to 
any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) of the Loan 
amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be determined by the Bank 
from time to time.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60 days after the 
Effective Date. 
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any waiver of a portion of 
such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time to time; provided, that upon a 
Page  3
2
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by 
the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the terms 
of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:  (i) a change of the Loan 
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis 
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable 
Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate 
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted 
by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the General 
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in 
accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III
—PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project, the Policies for the 
National System of Universal Health Insurance and the Program.  To this end, the Borrower 
shall cause the Project to be carried out by SODEM in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Operational Manual and Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the 
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that 
the Project is 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) SODEM
’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived 
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of SODEM to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement or under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
Page  4
3
(b) The 
Borr
ower’s Policies for the National System of Universal Health Insurance have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially 
and adversely the ability of the Borrower or of SODEM to perform any of their 
obligations under this Agreement or under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower’s Organic Law on the National Health System has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of the Borrower or of SODEM to perform any of their obligations under this 
Agreement or under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely that any event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after 
notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V
—EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the 
Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and SODEM. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Subsidiary Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SODEM and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and SODEM in accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety days after the date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance  
 
Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington 
 Quito, 
Ecuador 
 
Facsimile: 
(5932) 2503-111 
 
2558-232 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
Page  5
4
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR 
 
By /s/ Diego Borja Cornejo 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Marcelo M. Giugale 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to implement its strategy for health 
insurance coverage for targeted low-income groups that otherwise have no access to health care, with 
the goal of reducing infant, child and maternal mortality, as well as reducing the level of health 
inequalities among
 the Borrower’s provinces and the Borrower’s population income quintiles. 
 
The Project constitutes the first phase of the Program, and consists of the following parts: 
 
Component 1. 
Institutional Strengthening of Management Information Systems for 
Monitoring, Evaluation and Continuous Auditing 
 
a. 
Strengthening the health management information network and related coordination for AUS, 
including PROAUS, and its providers. 
 
b. 
Providing technical assistance and training to SODEM staff as well as selected Participating 
Health Care Providers’ staff, on health care contracting, payments and information systems as well as 
insurance premia financing under the Project. 
 
c. 
Carrying out continuous financial and technical audits and surveys, such as medical audits, 
household surveys and health care utilization audits. 
 
Component 2. 
Provision of Support for the 
Borrower’s Health Insurance Strategy for 
the Poor 
 
Support the 
Borrower’s health insurance strategy for the poor to promote protection of its human 
capital by increasing the enrollment of beneficiaries under the Borrower’s PROAUS and guaranteeing 
the financing of the insurance premia (Capitation Premia) therefor by the Borrower. 
 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Subsidiary Financing; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A.
 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1.
 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by SODEM, the Borrower shall execute with 
SODEM, and thereafter implement, a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement), under terms 
and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include the following:  
 
(a) 
the obligation of the Borrower to make the proceeds of the Loan for Component 1 of the 
Project available to SODEM; 
(b) 
the obligation of SODEM to:  (i) carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, health, social and environmental 
standards and in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operational Manual; (ii) 
maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices defined 
in the Project Operational Manual, the operations, the resources and expenditures in respect 
of the Project; and (iii) maintain adequate reporting in accordance with the standards 
specified in the Project Operational Manual; 
(c) 
the requirement that: (i) the goods and services needed for Component 1 of the Project and to 
be financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Section III of this Schedule; and (ii) the Capitation Premia shall be 
used exclusively to provide health care insurance coverage under PROAUS; 
(d) 
the right of the Borrower to inspect, by itself or jointly with the Bank, if the Bank shall so 
request, the goods and services financed by the Project under Component 1 of the Project as 
well as the results achieved under Component 2 of the Project, the operations thereof and any 
relevant records and documents; 
(e) 
the right of the Borrower to obtain all information as the Borrower or the Bank shall 
reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and financial conditions of the 
activities and results financed by the Project; and 
(f) 
(i) the right of the Borrower to suspend and terminate the right of SODEM to use the 
proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the obligation of SODEM to refund any portion of the Loan 
proceeds to the Borrower, whenever the Borrower or the Bank determines that such portion 
was used for items improperly procured in violation of Section III to this Schedule, was not 
used for Eligible Expenditures or, in the case of Capitation Premia, was not supported by 
evidence of an increase in Enrolled Population or other criteria set forth in this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to 
protect its own interests and the interests of Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except 
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, arrogate
 
or
waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement of any or its provisions. 
 
B. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements 
 
1.
 
The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by SODEM in accordance with the 
Project Operational Manual, including the Environmental Safeguards and the Indigeno
us Peoples’ 
Plan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision of these 
Page  8
7
documents without the Bank’s prior written approval.  In case of any conflict between the terms of 
said documents and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, until the completion of the execution of the Project, SODEM 
shall have competent staff in adequate numbers with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Bank, including the following key staff:  a national secretary, a manager for health care contracting, a 
public health care specialist, a manager of the administrative unit, a legal adviser, a social specialist, a 
procurement specialist, a financial management specialist and an audit and contract specialist. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall maintain until the completion of the Project, the AUS Advisory Council 
with at least semi-annual meetings and shall submit reports on said meetings to the Bank. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall cause SODEM to enter into, no later than twelve months after the 
Effective Date, and thereafter implement: (a) at least four institutional cooperation agreements (the 
Institutional Cooperation Agreements) with any of the following: the Borrower’s Ministry of Public 
Health, the Borrower’s Ministry of Social Welfare, IESS, ISSFA, ISSPOL, STFS and the 
Municipality of Quito; and (b) at least five Health Care Agreements; all in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not permit any 
amendment or waiver of any substantive provision of said agreements without the Bank’s prior 
written approval. These agreements will not be amended or waived if, in the opinion of the Bank, 
such amendments or waivers may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or 
the achievement of the objective thereof.  In case of any conflict between the terms of said 
agreements and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall cause SODEM to:  (a) enter into Health Care Agreements with public 
sector Participating Health Care Providers and Health Care Contracts with private sector Participating 
Health Care Providers on a yearly basis, all in terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; (b) agree 
with each Participating Health Care Provider in such agreements on annual targets for the Production 
Tracers, work programs and resource requirements for the delivery of health care services under 
PROAUS supported by Component 2 of the Project; (c) ensure that payments to Participating Health 
Care Providers are based solely on Production Tracers under said Health Care Agreements or Health 
Care Contracts; and (d) ensure that in case a Participating Health Care Provider fails to achieve its 
obligations under the respective Health Care Agreement or Health Care Contract, SODEM may take 
any appropriate corrective measure. 
6. 
The Borrower shall cause SODEM to:  (a) exercise its rights and carry out its obligations 
under each Institutional Cooperation Agreement and under each Health Care Agreement and Health 
Care Contract in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and of the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Project; (b) cause each Participating Health Care Provider to carry out 
its obligations under each Health Care Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and of the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project; and (c) except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any 
Institutional Cooperation Agreement, Health Care Agreement or Health Care Contract or any 
provision thereof. 
7. 
Each Loan withdrawal application under Category 2 of the table in Section IV A.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement shall be presented to the Bank by the Borrower on a quarterly basis and 
the Borrower shall cause SODEM, prior to the submission of each such Loan withdrawal application, 
to furnish to the Bank a report in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operational Manual 
confirming, validating and certifying that transfers for Capitation Premia to Participating Health Care 
Providers under a Health Care Agreement or Health Care Contract have been done.  Disbursements 
Page  9
8
under said Category 2 of the table in Section IV A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement shall be done on 
a
quarterly basis immediately after the presentation of said report by multiplying the Enrolled 
Population by the Enrolled Population/Production Tracers Formulae of the Performance Matrix of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
8. 
For the purposes of the confirmation, validation and certification procedure referred to in 
paragraph 7 above, the Borrower shall cause SODEM to:  (a) have the report referred to in said 
paragraph internally audited on a quarterly basis in accordance with standards specified in the Project 
Operational Manual and on the basis of the Performance Matrix, the Production Tracers and the 
registry of Enrolled Population by the audit and contract specialist referred to in Section I B.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this agreement; and (b) use as support documentation said internally audited reports 
provided by said audit and contract specialist, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
9. 
The Borrower shall have the reports referred to in paragraph 7 above as internally audited in 
accordance with paragraph 8 above, independently audited by an independent auditor (the Technical 
Auditor), in accordance with the provisions of Project Operation Manual and under terms of reference 
to be approved by the Bank.  Each such technical audit shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the 
Borrower and shall be furnished to the Bank for each such period not later than six months after the 
end of such period.
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on 
the basis of the indicators set forth in sub-paragraph (b).  Each Project Report shall cover the period 
of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of 
the period covered by such report.  
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) consist of the 
following: 
 
Target Dates 
Performance Indicators 
 
Dec. 31, 2007 
End of Project 
1. Enrolled Population. 
800,000 
1,400,000 
2. Reduction in infant mortality rate 
(IMR), under five years old mortality rate 
(U5MR) and maternal mortality rated 
(MMR) in the Enrolled Population. 
 
IMR 
 
5%
U5MR 
 
5% 
MMR 
 
10% 
3. Reduction in IMR, U5MR, MMR ratios 
between the Enrolled Population and 
income quintiles 4 and 5 of the Borrower’s 
population in PROAUS areas. 
 
 
2.5%
 
 
5% 
4. Participating Health Care Providers 
achieving at least 5 Production Tracers. 
 
80% 
 
80% 
5. Reduction of out-of-pocket health care 
expenses incurred by the Enrolled 
Population. 
 
 
5
%
 
5% 
Page  10
9
6. Percentage of Health Care Agreements 
and Health Care Contracts audited where 
at least 80% of those audited demonstrate 
data integrity. 
 
60% 
 
90% 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the final report on the execution 
of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than June 30, 2009. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank not later than one month after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Non-Consult
ants’ Services.  
 All goods 
and non consultants’ services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the 
corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case 
may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-
Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
goods and non-
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding procedures.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-
Consultants’ Services
.
The following 
table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may 
be used for goods and non-
consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Page  11
10
 
Procurement Method
(a) LIB 
(b) NCB 
(c) Shopping 
(d) Direct Contracting 
The procurement of good and non-
consultants’ services following the above procurement methods 
will be made using standard bidding documents and procedures agreed with the Bank and subject to 
the provisions of paragraph E below. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1
.
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-
based Selection. 
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which may be used for 
consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) FBS 
(b) QCS 
(c) LCS 
(d) SSS 
The procurement of consultants’ services following the above procurement methods will be made 
subject to the provisions of paragraph E below. 
 
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
E. Special 
Provisions 
 
1. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this 
Section or the Procurement Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern the procurement of 
goods and non-consultants’ services under this Section. 
 
(a) 
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the responsive bidder 
who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of capability and whose bid has been 
determined to be the lowest evaluated bid in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.  Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions and 
evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional to the amount 
or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such factor or factors and the 
quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes of determining the lowest 
evaluated bid, shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding documents.  For purposes of bid 
Page  12
11
evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a factor shall be the 
bid amount or amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic 
errors. 
 
(b) 
There will be no prescribed minimum number of bids submitted for a contract to be 
subsequently awarded. 
 
(c) 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to authenticate (
legalizar
)
their bidding documents or 
any documentation related to such bidding documents with Ecuadorian authorities as a 
prerequisite of bidding. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower shall use standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this 
Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all employment of 
consultants: 
 
(a) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition of 
participation in the selection process. 
 
(b) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly or indirectly, to give any 
participation in or share of any consulting contracts to any local firm or person. 
 
(c) 
Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition to provide services, to be 
registered in Ecuador with a minimum capital different from that required for Ecuadorian 
firms. 
 
(d) 
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to pay fees to the 
Ecuadorian Consultants’ Association that are different from those required for Ecuadorian 
consultants. 
 
(e) 
No consultant financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall, at the time he or she is carrying 
out his or her contractual obligations as consultant, hold civil service office or any other 
position in any agency of the Borrower, nor shall such consultant have any right to re-entry 
into any such office or position upon the conclusion of his or her consulting services. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General 
 
1.
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of 
this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, 
and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Page  13
12
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be financed 
(1) Goods,
 consultants’ services, 
training and non-consultants’ 
services. 
 
13,000,000 
 
100% 
(2) Capitation Premia. 
 
(a) prior to completion of 
Performance Goals I. 
 
(b) after completion of 
Performance Goals I. 
 
(c) after completion of Performance 
Goals II. 
 
15,400,000  
 
30,800,000  
 
30,800,000 
 
100% of amounts calculated 
pursuant to Section I.B.7 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(3) Premia for Interest Rate Caps 
and Interest Rate Collars. 
 
0
Amount due under Section 2.08 
(c) of this Agreement. 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
90,000,000 
 
For the purposes of this table, the term “training” means the reasonable cost of:  (i) training materials 
and rental of training facilities and equipment; (ii) tuition fees, travel and per-diem of trainers and 
trainees; and (iii) any other expenses related to training (including study tours and workshops) to be 
carried out under the Project. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be made from 
the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2010. 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
The Borrower shall cause SODEM to:  (i) no later that one month after the Effective Date, adopt 
through a resolution, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, the Project Operational Manual; 
and (ii) no later than six months after the Effective Date, hire the independent auditors for the 
financial and technical audits as respectively referred to in Sections II B.3 and I B.9 above. 
Page  14
13
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of 
the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (
“Installment 
Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
Beginning June 15, 2011  
 
through June 15, 2022 
 
4.17% 
On December 15, 2022 
 
4.09% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment 
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment 
Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of 
such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on each 
Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred 
to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on 
the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be 
repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal 
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any time 
the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after 
Page  15
14
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no 
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency, 
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal 
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion 
by either:  (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved 
Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, 
the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
Page  16
15
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Performance Matrix 
 
Enrolled Population/Production Tracers Formulae 
Enrolled Population under Health Care Agreements or Health Care Contracts whose Participating 
Health Care Providers fulfill at least 2 of the Production Tracers multiplied by $3.86 per quarter.
 
Enrolled Population under Health Care Agreements or Health Care Contracts whose Participating 
Health Care Providers fulfill at least 5 of the Production Tracers multiplied by $4.34 per quarter. 
Enrolled Population under Health Care Agreements or Health Care Contracts whose Participating 
Health Care Providers fulfill at least 8 of the Production Tracers multiplied by $4.82 per quarter. 
Performance Goals I 
1. Enrolled Population equals at least 400,000 persons. 
2. At least 60% of Participating Health Care Providers fulfill at least 5 Production Tracers. 
3. Health Care Agreements or Health Care Contracts executed and implemented in at least 4 target 
provinces in the Borrower’s territory. 
4. At least 60 percent of Health Care Agreements or Health Care Contracts have been audited, 
where at least 80 percent of those audited demonstrate data integrity. 
5. At least 80 percent of transfers from the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance to 
SODEM to finance PROAUS occurred within one month after said transfer request. 
Performance Goals II 
1. Enrolled Population equals at least 800,000 persons. 
2. At least 80% of Participating Health Care Providers fulfill at least 5 Production Tracers. 
3. Health Care Agreements or Health Care Contracts executed and implemented in at least 6 target 
provinces in the Borrower’s territory. 
4. Fraud reporting system under Component 1 of the Project validated by external audit. 
5. At least 60 percent of PROAUS enrolled pregnant women received at least one prenatal care 
service before the 20th week. 
6. At least 40 percent of enrolled PROAUS 
Parroquias
 have concentrations of indigenous 
populations >50%. 
7. At least 80 percent of transfers from the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance to 
SODEM to finance PROAUS occurred within one month after said transfer request. 
Page  17
16
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“AUS” means 
Aseguramiento Universal en Salud
,
the Borrower’s universal health insurance 
system, created and operating under the Borrower’s Policies for the National System of 
Universal Health Insurance. 
2. 
“AUS Advisory Council” means an advisory and supervision body for the Project, 
comprising representatives from SODEM, the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Health, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Social Welfare, the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance, 
IESS, ISSFA, ISSPOL, as created and operating under SODEM’s Resolution No. 016-SN-
SODEM-2005, dated December 20, 2005. 
 
3. 
 “Capitation Premia” means payments made by SODEM for eligible health insurance 
coverage for targeted low income groups to Participating Health Care Providers under Health 
Care Agreements or Health Care Contracts. 
 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
6. 
“Enrolled Population” means the number of persons in the Borrower’s population in income 
quintiles 1 and 2 that has voluntarily enrolled in PROAUS with each Participating Health 
Care Provider. 
 
7. 
“Enrolled Population/Performance Tracers Formulae” means the formulae as set forth in the 
Performance Matrix appearing in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, used to calculate 
disbursements under Category 2 of the table in Section IV A.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
8. 
“Environmental Safeguards” means the safeguards (published and available to the public on 
the website 
www.sodem.gov.ec
)
outlining mitigation measures and monitoring procedures 
for hospital waste management disposal for the Project to be included in each Health Care 
Agreement or Health Care Contract; as said safeguards may be amended from time to time 
with the Bank’s prior approval. 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
10. 
“Health Care Agreements” means agreements executed between SODEM and public sector 
Participating Health Care Providers. 
11. 
“Health Care Contracts” means contracts executed between SODEM and private sector 
Participating Health Care Providers. 
12. “IESS” 
means 
Instituto Ecuatoriano de Seguridad Social
,
the Borrower’s agency responsible 
for social security, as created and operating under the Borrower’s Law No. 2001-55 published 
on November 30, 2001. 
Page  18
17
13. 
“Indigenous Peoples’ Plan” means the document (published and available to the public on the 
website 
www.sodem.gov.ec
), dated October 21, 2005 and outlining implementation 
procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for indigenous peoples under the 
Project to be included in each Institutional Cooperation Agreement, in each Health Care 
Agreement and in each Health Care Contract; as said plan may be amended from time to time 
with the Bank’s prior approval. 
 
14. 
“Institutional Cooperation Agreements” means agreements to be executed between SODEM 
and respectively each of the following:  the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Health, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Social Welfare, IESS, ISSFA, ISSPOL, STFS and the Municipality of 
Quito, in order to implement PROAUS. 
 
15. “ISSFA” 
means 
Instituto de Seguridad Social de las Fuerzas Armadas
,
the Borrower’s social 
security agency for military personnel and their families, as created and operating under the 
Borrower’s Law No. 169 published on August 7, 1992. 
16. “ISSPOL” 
means 
Instituto de Seguridad 
Social de la Policía Nacional
 the Borrower’s social 
security agency for police personnel and their families, as created and operating under the 
Borrower’s Special Law No. 90 published on June 1, 1991. 
17. 
“Organic Law on the National Health System” means the Borrower’s organic law on the 
national health system (Law No. 80, published on September 25, 2002). 
 
18. “
Parroquias
”
means the Borrower’s parishes, an administrative territorial jurisdiction created 
under the Borrower’s Constitution of 1998. 
 
19. 
“Participating Health Care Providers” means health care providers from the public sector and 
the private sector who have met the eligibility criteria set forth in the Project Operational 
Manual and have executed Health Care Agreements or Health Care Contracts (as the case 
may be) with SODEM for the delivery of health care services covered by PROAUS. 
 
20. 
“Performance Goals” means collectively Performance Goals I and Performance Goals II, 
both being a set of indicators appearing in the Performance Matrix. 
 
21. 
“Performance Matrix” means the matrix set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
22. 
“Policies for the National System of Universal Health Insurance” means the Borrower’s 
strategic policies for its national system of universal health insurance as defined in SODEM 
Resolution No. 016-SN-SODEM-2005, dated December 20, 2005. 
 
23. “PROAUS” 
means 
Programa de Aseguramiento Universal en Salud
,
the Borrower’s program 
on universal health insurance, a sub-element of AUS for the two poorest income quintiles of 
the Borrower’s population, as created and operating under the Borrower’s Policies for the 
National System of Universal Health Insurance. 
 
24. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
25. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated December 
22, 2005 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 
Page  19
18
of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance 
with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
26. 
“Production Tracers” means a set of ten (10) service production goals included in each Health 
Care Agreements or Health Care Contracts. 
 
27. 
“Program” means the program designed to support the Borrower’s insurance strategy for the 
poor and set forth or referred to in the letter dated December 22, 2005 from the Borrower to 
the Bank. 
 
28. 
“Project Operational Manual” means an operational manual for the Project, satisfactory to the 
Bank and to be adopted through a resolution by SODEM with prior approval by the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance, which shall contain, 
inter alia
:
(i) the terms 
of reference, functions and responsibilities for the personnel of SODEM responsible for 
Project coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (ii) the criteria, detailed rules 
and procedures for the Capitation Premium; (iii) the criteria, detailed rules and procedures for 
the execution of Health Care Agreements and Health Care Contracts; (iv) procedures for 
procurement of goods and services, as well as for financial management and audits of the 
Project; (v) the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (vi) draft 
models for the Health Care Agreements and Health Care Contracts; (vii) detailed criteria for 
the determination of the Enrolled Population, including procedures, activities and monitoring 
indicators for the enrollment of said population, which shall, inter alia, also ensure adequate 
and culturally appropriate access by indigenous peoples to AUS and PROAUS; (viii) flow 
and disbursement arrangements of Project funds; and (ix) the Environmental Safeguards as 
well as the Indigenous Peoples’ Plan. 
 
29. “SODEM” 
means 
Secretaría Nacional de los Objetivos de Desarrollo del Milenio
,
the 
Borrower’s national secretariat for the millennium development goals. 
 
30. 
“SODEM’s Legislation” means the Borrower’s Executive Decree No. 294 dated July 1, 2005 
and published on July 13, 2005; as amended through the Borrower’s Executive Decree No. 
962, dated December 16, 2005. 
 
31. “STFS” 
means 
Secretaria Técnica de Frente Social
,
the Borrower’s technical secretariat 
under its Ministry of Social Welfare, in charge, 
inter alia
,
of the maintenance and 
management of SELBEN (
Sistema
 de Identificación y Selección de Beneficiarios de los 
Programas Sociales
), the Borrower’s national system for identifying and selecting 
beneficiaries of social programs, as created and operating under the Borrower’s Executive 
Decree No. 614, published on August 3, 2000. 
 
32. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to 
SODEM. 
 
33. 
“Technical Auditor” means an independent auditor referred to in Section I.B.9 of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, in charge of carrying yearly technical audits of the Project, as selected in 
accordance with Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, terms of reference included in 
the Project Operational Manual and the Procurement Plan. 
 
Page  20
19
 
