RETURN   TO                                                  RESTRICTED
REPORTFS  DESK                                                    Report No.  TO-556b
WITHIN    FILE C0PY
ONE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
AN EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
MALAWI
April 17, 1967
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 U. S. $           =  Malawi J60. 357
1 Malawi Pound (6) = U. S. $2. 80
1 Million Malawi
Pounds (b)         =  U.S. $2, 800, 000



APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT IN MALAWI
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paragraphs
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY                                                           i
I.    INTRODUCTION                                                1.01
II.   THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
Organization and Administration                           2.01
Primary Education                                         2.04
Secondary Education                                       2.07
Technical and Vocational Education                        2.12
University Education                                      2.17
Financing Education                                       2.19
III. THE NEED FOR THE PROJECT
Manpower Requirements                                     3.01
National Primary Teacher Training College                 3.06
Technical Curriculum in Secondary Schools                 3.08
IV.   THE PROJECT
General                                                   4.01
A. Technical Features:
National Primary Teacher Training College          4.03
Technical Curriculum in Secondary Schools          4.o8
B. Costs                                                  4.16
C. Construction:
Land                                               4.23
Accommodation                                      4.24
Architectural Services                             4.29
Execution of the Project                           4.30
V.    CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                             5.01
This report is based on the findings of a mission to Malawi
composed of Messrs. J.J. Stewart and J.H. Pichler of the Bank,
Mr. J.E. Kulski, (consultant to the Bank) and Mr. L.H.S. Emerson
(of Unesco) which visited Malawi in March, 1966.



-2-
ANNE.XES:
ANNEX 1 - Outline of School System
"'   2 - Ministry of Education Administrative Structure
"    3 - Distribution of Enrolment by Grade in Primary Schools
4 - Primary Enrolment:  Standards and Progression Rates
5 - Education Structure and Enrolment, 1964.
tl   6 - Secondary School Enrolment, 1958 - 1965, and Distribution
of 1965 Enrolment by Type of School.
"    7 - Secondary School Staff:  Possible Sources
"    8 - Technical and Vocational Institutions Supervised by the
Ministry of Education
9 - Training Programs of Various Ministries
"  10 - Students Studying Abroad
11 - Central Government Development Expenditure on Education
by Main Sectors, 1964 - 1969
12 - Collection of Fees
" 13 - Central Government Recurrent Expenditure on Education
by Main Sectors, 1961 - 1970
14 - Central Government Recurrent Budget and Share of Educational
Expenditure, 1964 - 1969
15 - Central Government Average Recurrent Cost of Education Per
Pupil, 1961 - 1970
" 16 - First Level Manpower Requirements, 1965 - 1970
" 17 - Second Level Manpower Requirements, 1965 - 1970
" 18 - Enrolment in Project Secondary Schools
" 19 - Summary of Costs
t  20 - Construction Schedule
"   21 - Tentative Schedule of Disbursements
MAP OF MALAWI



MALAWI
BASIC DATA - 1965
Total size of country:                45,747 square miles.
Population (latest estimate):         4.0 million
Average density (land area
of 36,043 sq.miles only):        110 per square mile
Growth (estimate):               3% p.a.
% of      Non-     % of
Gross Domestic Product ($Will.):   Total   Monetary   Total   Monetary   Total
1965 current value(estimate)  158.8      87.1        55      71.7        45
Per capita ($ rounded)          40.00    22.00               18.00
Pro.jected average economic growth 1966-1969: 5.7% p.a.!/
1/ SOURCE: }ienistry of Finance, Government of Aalawi,
based on 1965 constant prices.



APPRAISAL OF AN EUCATION PROJEICT IN YALkII
SUMMRY
i.        The International Development Association (IDA) has been
asked to assist in financing the construction and equipment of a primary
teacher training college and the addition of technical education
facilities to twelve secondary schools. A mission visited Malawi during
March, 1966, to appraise the project.
ii.       The proposed project consists of the construction and equipment
of school buildings, workshops, student hostels, staff housing, and
cormunal facilities; renovation of existing buildings; and related site
development.
iii.      The proposed primary teacher training college for 540 pupils
would increase the capacity of existing primary teacher training colleges
in Malawi by about 41%. The expanded secondary school facilities would
make technical studies available to 3,280 academic students and 1,760
technical students.
iv.       The Mjinistry of Education is concentrating upon urgently needed
improvements in the quality of the system. The proposed primary teacher
training college would be essential to this program and would be the
prototype of the larger, modern institutions necessary to effect an
up-grading of teacher training standards. The school would have higher
admission requirements, produce better qualified primary teachers, and
would be staffed approximately equally by Malawians who had been trained
abroad and experienced expatriate teachers.  The school would be located
in Lilongwe, a populous area in the central region of Malawi.
v.        The capacity of the secondary school system in Malawi should
be expanded to a more reasonable size relative to the primary school
system and provide sufficient numbers of qualified applicants for admission
to the newly created post-secondary institutions within the country. The
proposed introduction of a technical curriculum into twelve selected
secondary schools, all located in centers of population throughout Malawi,
would provide much of the needed increase in secondary school places,
provide at least one year of instruction in technical subjects for students
in academic courses and, through the four-year technical curriculum,
produce secondary school certificate holders who will be more suited to
employment in technical fields and who can proceed with greater ease to
higher technical education.
vi.       The ratio of applicants for admission to the schools in this
project to the number of available seats would be high. No difficulties
are foreseen in regard to employment opportunities.



- ii -
vii.      During the initial years of the project, expatriate technical
teachers would be employed by the MEnistry of Education or provided on
a grant basis by bilateral agencies but substantial numbers of qualified
Malawians would be available by 1971.
viii.     The project would be executed under the supervision of a
Project Office within the Ministry of Works and Supplies. Buildings would
be designed by firms of consulting architects and constructed by private
contractors. Contracts for civil works and equipment procurement would
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding.
ix.       The schedules of accommodations for both project items are
adequate and conform to austere standards. The estimates of cost are
realistic. Lists of instructional equipment are adequate and reasonably
priced.
x.        The total project cost is estimated to be M£2.5 million,
equivalent to US$7.0 million. The foreign exchange component is
estimated to be US$4.5 million. The proposed credit, equivalent to
US$6.3 million, amounting to 90% of the total project cost, would be made
to the Government of Malawi. The annual recurrent costs of the project,
approximately US$0.6 million, would be met by the Malawian Government.
Construction is expected to be completed by the end of 1970.
xi.       With agreement reached on the conditions described in paragraphs
5.o7 and s.o8 below, the project is a suitable basis for a proposed
development credit equivalent to $6.3 million.



APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT IN MALAWI
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01.     In January, 1966, the Government of Malawi made formal
application to the International Development Association for assistance
in financing the construction and equipment of (i) three primary teacher
training colleges, (ii) an academic secondary boarding school, (iii) a
technical secondary boarding school, and (iv) additions to 14 secondary
schools which would provide instruction in technical subjects and permit
an expansion of enrolment. The project had been prepared under the
guidance of a Unesco project preparation mission in September - October,
1965. Estimated cost was US$12.5 million equivalent.
1.02.     Because of the limited Malawian funds available, the proposals
were amended by the IDA appraisal mission in consultation with the
Ministry of Education and now consist of (i) one primary teacher training
college; and (ii) additions to 12 secondary schools which would allow
ten schools to accommodate 1,860 additional pupils and all 12 schools to
provide instruction in technical subjects. The proposed items, their
cost in equivalent U.S. dollars, and as a percentage of the total project
cost are as follows:-
Cost          % of
US$ Million       Total
Equivalent      ProJect
(a) Primary Teacher Training College         1.61             23
(b) Secondary School Expansion               i-22             77
ESTIVATED TOTAL COST. . . . . . . . .        7.00           100
1.03.     The proposed project comprises the construction of teaching and
general service accommodation and staff housing, and the purchase and
installation of instructional equipment and furniture. The proposed credit
would be the equivalent of US$6.3 million, equal to 90% of the total
project cost.  The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$4.5
million. Construction should be completed by the end of 1970.
1.04.     This report is based upon the findings of an appraisal mission
comprising Messrs. J. J. Stewart, J. H. Pichler, L.H.S. Emerson (Unesco),
and J. Kulski (consultant) which was in Malawi during March, 1966.
Discussions were held in London with the British Council and the Ministry
of Overseas Development, in Paris with Unesco, and in Malawi with
employers' groups, bilateral assistance agencies, administrative and
technical staffs of the Ministry of Education and representatives of the
Ministries of Labor, Finance, and Development and Planning. A number of
schools and colleges in Malawi were visited and discussions held with
the staffs of these institutions.



- 2-
Social and Economic Bac!¢round
1.Q5.    Malawi, formerly Nyasaland, is located in southeastern Africa
between Portuguese East Africa (Mozambique), Tanzania, and Zambia. The
country is approximately 520 miles in length in a north-south direction
and 50 to 130 miles wide. Because of the six large lakes within the
country, including the greater part of Lake Malawi, which is the third
largest lake in Africa, approximately one-fourth of the country's
45,700 square miles is under water. The Great Rift Valley constitutes
the most prominent physical feature of Malawi and has caused marked
variations in the terrain, resulting in great differences in the climate,
soils, and vegetation types within the country. The country is completely
land-locked, 130 miles from the Indian Ocean at its nearest point. All
of Malawits exports and imports outside Africa depend upon the Mozambique
port of Beira, to which Malawi's single railroad runs from Blantyre-Limbe,
Malawifs financial center.
1.06.     The peoples of Malawi are chiefly of Bantu origin and speak
several vernacular languages. Accurate demographic data are not available
because the last survey was made in 1945. Census estimates have since
been based upon an assumed 2.2% annual increase in population, which many
consider to be unrealistically low. A census was begun in early 1966
and was due for completion by the end of that year. The present population
is estimated at four million persons, distributed unevenly among the three
principal regions of the country. The Southern Region has about half the
total, with an average density of 165 persons per square mile. The two
most populous centers, Blantyre-Limbe and Zomba, the capital, are located
in the Southern Region. To reduce the difficulties in administration and
communications occasioned by the rugged terrain, the government is
considering moving the capital to Lilongwe in the Central Region.
1.07.     Agriculture is the predominant sector of Malawi's economy.  The
largest subsistence crops are maize and paddy rice. The production of
groundnuts has increased in transition from a subsistence to a marketable
crop. Tea, tobacco, groundnuts and cotton account for 80% of the annual
agricultural exports, which earn approximately M£12 million. At present,
only minerals for usein construction in Malawi are being processed. Several
mineral deposits of some promise exist but their development will depend
upon reductions in transportation costs and the availability of electric
power.
1.08.     Malawi, formerly a British Protectorate, was granted self
government in 1963 as part of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland
and independence in July, 1964. Close ties with Great Britain have been
maintained and cooperative agreements with the British government
provided £6 million in grants last year to Malawi. The senior administra-
tive officers in the government, most of whom still are British, display
an awareness of the country's limited financial resources and a commendable
interest in operating economies. The government appears prepared to
continue to employ expatriates in senior administrative posts for the
foreseeable future but a greater measure of Africanization is now probable.



- 3 -
II. THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
Organization and Administration
2.01.     The Malawi educational system (ANNEX 1) is patterned after
the British in organizational structure and course content. The Ministry
of Education supports directly the few schools operated by the government
and by grants-in-aid most of the larger number operated by voluntary
agencies. The curricula, syllabuses, and academic standards of all schools,
including those not receiving any financial assistance from the government,
are the responsibility of the Ministry. The responsibility for primary
education is shared to some extent with local authorities.
2.02.     The Minister of Education is assisted by two chief administrative
officers on the operations level (ANNEX 2) - a Parliamentary Secretary,
who is a Member of Parliament responsible for the relations of the
Ministry of Education with the Parliament, and a Permanent Secretary,
who is responsible for the administration, staffing, inspection, and
examination system of all schools in Malawi and the financing of government
and assisted schools. A Development and Planning Section has been created
recently and is functioning efficiently. Nearly all of the administrative
personnel in the Ministry of Education are British expatriates. A few
supernumerary posts for Malawians have been created within each Ministry
within recent months but the substantial replacement of expatriates in
responsible positions has not yet begun.
2.03.     The inspection of the entire secondary school system of 39
schools is performed by the Chief Inspector, four members of his staff,
and two members of the Chief Education Officer's staff. The staff is
too few in number and too involved in administrative duties to discharge
effectively all the tasks for which it is responsible. This condition
has been partially corrected since appraisal by the addition of six
qualified educators.
Primary Education
2.04.     Three types of primary schools operate in Malawi: (i) government
financed and operated, referred to as "government schools"; (ii) government
financed but operated by Voluntary Agencies, usually religious missions,
known as "assisted schools"; and (iii) privately financed and operated
by Voluntary Agencies, known as "unassisted" schools. The caliber and
numbers of the teaching staff, the quality of the academic program, and
the adequacy of physical facilities vary considerably within each category
and more markedly from category to category, with the "unassisted" schools
consistently at the lower end of the spectrum. Many of the unassisted
schools offer only two or three grades and, as the marked decrease in
enrolment in unassisted schools after grade 5 (ANNEX 3) indicates, very
few offer more than five grades.



- 4 -
2.05.     The length of the primary school course was restored in
1966 to eight years, after a two-year experiment in which the course
consisted of seven years. Students who fail the Primary School Leaving
Certificate Examination are permitted to repeat the last grade; the
larger enrolments in this grade (ANMEXES 4 and 5) are due to this
practice. The syllabus and timetable for primary education have recently
been revised and modernized. The new curriculum is designed to achieve
literacy in Nyanja or Tumbuka in Grades I and 2, introduce English as
a medium of instruction from the fourth year, broaden the science
courses, and include more handicraft instruction.
2.06.     In 1965, 20 government, 1,141 assisted, and 1,180 unassisted
primary schools were in operation with enrolments of 7,680, 248,500, and
79,650, respectively; their combined enrolments represented 49% of the
primary school-age population. Because the capacity of the primary
schools is disproportionate to the size of the secondary school system
(ANNEX 5), the Ministry of Education plans only to maintain the present
percentage of the primary school-age group and to concentrate
upon improving the quality of the system. As part of this program, the
government intends to provide financial assistance to unassisted schools,
reducing their number to 670 by 1970. In that year, the combined
enrolment in assisted and government schools is expected to be 400,900
students, a 56% increase over existing enrolments, while the enrolment
in unassisted schools is expected to be 40,000 students, a 50% decrease.
Primary school enrolment in 1970 (eight grades) will increase by 20%
over the 1963 figure, but will still represent 49% of the relevant age
group.
Secondary Education
2.07.     Secondary education now is provided in Forms 1 through 4
(grades 9 through 12); Forms 5 and 6 were discontinued at the end of 1966.
Applicants for admission are selected impartially by the Ministry of
Education on the basis of marks in the Primary School Leaving Certificate
Examination, except where some adjustment in favor of girls is made to
keep their numbers at about one-third of the total enrolment. The
Ministry assigns pupils to specific schools, including unassisted schools.
Approximately 40,000 primary school leavers applied in 1966 for 3,000
secondary school places.
2.08.     Secondary school enrolment in 1965 in the 21 government schools,
15 assisted schools, and two unassisted schools totalled 8,019 pupils,
including 2,481 students in grade 8 and 106 in Forms 5 and 6 (ANNEX 6).
The 5,432 students in Forms 1 through 4 represented only 1.4% of the
eligible age group.



- 5 -
2.09.     In 1965, promotion within the secondary schools ceased to be
automatic and became dependent upon grades achieved in an internally set
end-of-year examination.  As a result of these examinations, 150 pupils,
or approximately 3% of the total enrolment, repeated a grade in 1966.
Drop-outs are few (ANNEX 6) and the result of social pressures rather
than failure to meet academic standards. Of those who enroll in Form 1,
approximately 95% reach Form 4.
2.10.     The curriculum prepares pupils for the Cambridge School
Certificate or the London General Certificate examinations at the
completion of Form 4. In 1965, 36% of the 1,009 candidates received
certificates. Although the curriculum is not framed to prepare pupils for
employment upon completing secondary school, their performance in the
above examinations determines their employment prospects. This has
resulted in an interest in academic subjects which is inconsistent with
the present stage of development of Malawi.
2.11.     Secondary school enrolment has been planned to increase to
13,580 by 1970, an increase of 4,080 over the present capacity, and which
still would accommodate only 3% of the relevant age group and 10% of
the primary school leavers. The controlling factor in the expansion
program will be the supply of qualified teachers. Because secondary
teacher training facilities have been extremely limited and appreciable
numbers of graduates from recently created programs will not become
available for several years, the system is and will continue to be
heavily dependent upon expatriate teachers (ANNEX 7).  In 1965, the total
secondary school teaching staff consisted of 74 Malawians, 148 expatriates
under contract, 16 members of the British Volunteer Service Organization,
and 127 Peace Corps Volunteers.
Technical and Vocational Education
2.12.     The numbers enrolled in technical courses are few; in 1965,
of the 8,019 enrolled in secondary schools, 335 were enrolled in clerical
courses and 339 in trade training. In addition to seven schools under
the Ministry of Education (ANNEX 8) that offer vocational training,
some ministries (ANNEX 9) offer employee training programs varying from
short in-service courses to a three-year program. Commercial studies
and diploma level technician training are offered at the Malawi Polytechnic
Institute.
2.13.     Students for all of the above schools are carefully screened
from a large number of applicants for admission. For example, 100
pupils were selected for a four weeks' trial period of instruction at
Soche Technical School from over 1,000 applicants; at the end of the
trial period, 40 were selected for the three years' program. As a result
of such selection procedures, the drop-out rates in all the vocational
training schools are negligible.



- 6 -
2.114.    The caliber of vocational training under the Ministry of
Education is impressive, especially in the building trades, and pupils
who complete the courses quickly obtain suitable employment. Enrolment
in the various trade courses is controlled by the Technical Education
Officer of the Ministry of Education, who maintains close liaison with
employerst organizations. No diploma technicians will graduate from the
Malawi Polytechnic until 1968 but the curriculum, training facilities,
and teaching staff are excellent. The training programs conducted by
other Ministries were not examined in detail but appear to satisfactorily
meet the requirements of their respective Ministries.
2.15.     Of the 86 teachers in technical and vocational schools in
1966,69 were expatriates. Most of the Malawians teaching technical courses
have served an apprenticeship in the trade, have passed the final City
and Guilds examination in their craft, and have had some previous teaching
experience. Although no timetable has been established yet, the government
intends to replace eventually all the expatriate teachers with Malawians
who have received advanced training overseas or have completed the
diploma technician course and a one-year teacher training course at the
Malawi Polytechnic.
2.16.     Apprenticeship training, a responsibility of the Ministry of
Labor, is administered by an Apprenticeship Board consisting of representa-
tives of employer organizations, ministries of the government, and
technical education officers. A few employers have agreed to commence
the conventional type of apprentice training in which the apprentices are
under contract but most employers are unwilling to participate. Legisla-
tion making participation compulsory will be necessary if the program is
to be effective. Apprentices are selected by the Apprentice Board on the
basis of aptitude tests and academic records from applicants with a
Junior Certificate. The program is a four-year sandwich course consisting
of two years at the Polytechnic and two years in industry. The first
group of 75 apprentices began their formal training in April, 1966.
University Education
2.17.     The University of Malawi, started in 1965 as an autonomous
institution supported completely by government funds, is responsible
for all post-secondary education in Malawi.  Post-secondary institutions
such as the Soche Hill Secondary Teachers Training College, the Institute
of Public Administration, the diploma section of the Malawi Polytechnic,
and the Bunda Agricultural College which opened in September, 1966, have
been incorporated into the university. These institutions are located
in the general vicinity of Blantyre, where the university headquarters
are temporarily housed in the buildings formerly used by a secondary
school. Government buildings in Zomba which will be vacated when the
capital transfers to Lilongwe will eventually constitute the main campus
of the university.



- 7 -
2.18.     The university offers four-year degree courses in arts and
sciences and three-year diploma courses. Degree courses are available
in science, geography, history, English, and French, and will be offered
in agriculture, economics, psychology, philosophy, and sociology.
Diploma courses at the institutions mentioned above are in education,
public administration, business and social studies, public health, and
engineering; diploma courses in agriculture are offered at the Bunda
Agricultural College. For subjects which the university will not offer,
such as medicine and professional engineering, students will continue to
be sent abroad to study.  In 1965, 570 students were overseas, (ANNEX 10).
Financing Education
Capital Expenditure
2.19.     In the current Five-Year Development Plan (1965 - 1969) as
revised by the Ministry of Finance, £6.8 million have been allocated for
capital expenditure on education. This is about 17% of the Plan's total
development expenditure of £40 million. If the execution of the proposed
project is phased as described later in this report, about £410,000 of
the capital expenditure on education allocated for the Plan period will
carry over into 1970.
2.20.     The major part of the projected capital expenditure is for
secondary and higher education, with secondary education (including the
proposed technical streams) accounting for about 39% of the total,
teacher training 13%, and higher education approximately 30%.
2.21.     Of the £4.8 million required to finance educational
development projects which have been included in the Development Plan
but not yet implemented (ANNEX 11), approximately £4.2 million are expected
to be financed by external aid (excluding the 1970 phase of the proposed
project). The Malawi Government will provide about £500,000 from local
sources leaving a balance of about £100,000 to be met by additional
sources still to be found or through appropriate cuts in the planned
investment program.
2.22.     Contributions to educational capital expenditure by Local
Authorities are relatively insignificant (£8,500 in 1964) and practically
limited to primary schools in rural areas. Capital expenditure by
Voluntary Agencies amounted to about £100,000 in 1964, a decline of about
30% compared to the previous year and equal to 17% of the Central
Government's total capital expenditure on education.
Recurrent Expenditure
2.23.     Although the Central Government bears the main responsibility
for financing education, the Local Authorities and Voluntary Agencies
finance a significant portion of the recurrent costs of the education
system, especially at the primary level. In 1963 and 19614, their combined
recurrent expenditures on education amounted to 33% and 23%, respectively,
of the Central Government's recurrent expenditure on education.



- 8 -
2.24.     Since 1963, the Local Authorities have become responsible
for the collection of fees for primary schools but the Central Government
has retained responsibility for the collection of secondary school fees
(ANNEX 12). These provide about 5% of its total recurrent expenditure
on education. The standard annual fee per pupil at Government and
assisted primary schools is 15 shillings up to grade five and 35 shillings
above that; the standard rate at all secondary schools is £17.5 for a
boarder and £7.5 for a day pupil. School authorities stated that
approximately 80% of the fees are collected with little difficulty,
although the fees undoubtedly constitute a heavy financial burden upon
the average student's parents and relatives. School officials also
maintained, however, that students who are unable to pay these fees
usually are not forced to leave school.
2.25.     Since 1962, the amount of fees collected and the recurrent
expenditures by Voluntary Agencies have decreased significantly as the
Government has gradually extended financial assistance to more church-
operated schools, with the result that increased control of academic
standards and collection of fees have been transferred to the Government
and Local Authorities. This process, which is expected to continue,
has been the principal cause, rather than an expansion of the educational
system, of the increase in the Government's recurrent expenditure on
primary education in the past four years (ANNEX 13).
2.26.     The Central Government's recurrent expenditure on education
amounted to 14% of the total expenditure in the recurrent budget and 3.5%
of the G.D.P. in 1965 and is expected to increase to about 19% of the
recurrent budget, as shown in Table 1, and 4.4% of the projected G.D.P.
by 1969. A considerable proportion of this expenditure is financed by
the British government in the form of "Grants-in-Aid" support of Malawi's
budget, amounting to over £5 million in 1964, which represented about one-
third of the Government's total recurrent expenditure. Further support
of up to £5.3 million in annual budgetary aid has been assured by the
British Ministry of Overseas Development up to and including 1968, thus
closing the gap between Malawi's Government revenue and expenditure on
recurrent account (ANNEX 14) for this period.
Table 1
CENTRAL GOVERNMNT RECURRENT EXPENDITURE*
(£ thousands)
Education
Total     Amount    % of total
1964    13,978      1,778        13
1965    14,515      2,011        14
1966    15,037      2,320        15
1967    15,396      2,645        17
1968    16,069      3,030        19
1969    16,800      3,100        19
* Excluding amounts reimbursable under the
British Overseas Service Aid Scheme.



- 9 -
2.27. - Considering this support and provided that it will not be
cut too drastically after 1968, the Government should be able to meet the
increasing recurrent requirements in educational expenditure. Due to
the planned imposition of additional taxation, as well as the expected
general increase in economic activity, the Ministry of Finance's forecast
envisaged annual increments in revenue of about £500,000 from 1966
through 1968, and about £750,000 to £1,000,000 thereafter, parts of which
will be allocated to education as well as for decreasing the budgetary
"Grants-in-Aid".
2.28.     The projected overall increase of the Central Government's
recurrent expenditure on education is mainly due to the expansion on
secondary and post-secondary level, as shown in Table 2, with secondary
education (including the proposed technical streams and the purely
technical and vocational sector) accounting for about 30% by 1970, teacher
training (primary and secondary) 11%, and higher education over 12%. At
the same time the relative share of primary education shows a decline
from about 50% in 1965 to slightly over 40% by 1970.
Table 2
TOTAL CENTRAL GOVERNMENT RECURRENT EXPENDITURE i
ON E-UCATION BY SECTORS
( £ thousands)
1965                 1970
(Actual)            (Projected)
Amount  % of Total  Amount  % of Total
Primary                        1,026      49.9      1,320      41.2
Secondary (including
technical streams)             395     19.3         600      18.8
Technical and Vocational         128       6.2        330      10.3
Teacher Training (Primary
and Secondary)                 194       9.4        350      10.9
Post-Secondary and
University                     185       9.0        400      12.5
Administrative                   128       6.2        200       6.3
TOTAL                          2,056    100.0       3,200    100.0
* - Including amounts reimbursable under the British Overseas
Service Aid Scheme.
2.29.     This general development of educational oxpenditures is also
reflected in the projected trend of the Central Govornment's average
rLcurrent expenditure per pupil,1965 to 1970,for various types of
education (ANNEX 15). The costs remain practically stable over the given
period for primary education, while they increase by about 6% on secondary
level,indicating the intended qualitative improvement of the educational
system. The comparatively steep increase of about 60% for primary teacher
training is due to the government taking over more of the financial
responsibility from mission colleges in order to up-grade their standards.



- 10 -
2.30.     Under the existing British Overseas Service Aid Scheme the
salaries of expatriate teachers are supplemented by an "overseas addition"
on top of the established Malawian salary scale. Consequently, the
gradual phasing out of expatriates would not affect the amount paid by
the Central Government for teacher salaries. Since these salary
additions represent recurrent expenditure not provided by the Malawi
budget, they have been included in the total recurrent expenditure on
education (ANNEX 13) but not in the Central Government's recurrent budget
(ANNEX 14).



- 11 -
III.   THE NEED FOR THE PROJECT
Manpower Requirements
3.01.     Although a systematic manpower survey for Malawi has never
been undertaken, some sector studies and preliminary projections have
been completed which give an indication of the manpower available and
required. A forecast of first and second level manpower requirements
up to 1970 has been made recently by the Commissioner for Training.
3.02.     The need for first level manpower (professionals and administra-
tive staff - university graduates or equivalent) has been estimated to
be slightly over 1,200 by 1970, excluding positions now held by Malawians
(ANNEX 16). In 1965, the number of high level staff in public service
(including graduate teachers) was 650, of which about 600, or more than
90% were expatriates. Assuming replacement of the entire expatriate
staff and considering the estimated additional need of about 200 (a 30%
increase), the number of Malawians required to fill the projected first
level public service positions would be 800 by 1970. Wastage has been
neglected because of the comparatively young ages of the Malawians
employed at present. In addition, the estimated private sector requirements
for first level personnel amount to about 400 over the same period. With
approximately 400 currently under training for first level positions,
an additional group of more than 800 will be required to meet the estimated
need of 1970. The new university will provide personnel at this level
but not in significant numbers before 1970. And since no training programs
have been formulated to eliminate this shortage, Malawi in 1970 will
remain dependent on expatriates to meet its first level manpower
requirements.
3.03.     The second level manpower requirement (sub-professionals,
diploma level technicians, School Certificate holders plus training or
equivalent), excluding posts now held by Malawians, is 2,040 by 1970.
This implies a piojected increase in public service positions from about
1,480 in 1965 to 1,760 in 1970 (a 19% increase), replacement of 956
expatriates, plus private sector estimates of approximately 800, including
diploma level teachers (ANNEX 17). With 450 students now being trained
for second level posts, there is need for almost 1,600 persons requiring
additional training to qualify for second level positions. The newly
established apprenticeship scheme and the training programs at the
recently created Malawi Polytechnic are inadequate in their present size
to meet this demand for second level personnel.
3.04.     The only study on Malawi's third level manpower requirements
(skilled workers, School Certificate holders and Junior Certificate
holders plus training or equivalent) has been based on 1963 data and
empirical samples and indicates that the additional need of third level
manpower for all sectors of the econony will grow from 1,450 per year in
1965 to 1,900 per year in 1969, a total of about 8,400 over the five-year
period. Although this forecast is likely to be on the high side, the
- "Report of a Survey of the Vocational and Technical Education Needs
of Malawi", by E.R. Plowden, April, 1964.



- 12 -
accumulated estimated output by 1969 of 900 from the existing
vocational schools would fall short of even a substantially lower forecast.
3.05.     Pupils for admission to the training programs designed to
produce the various levels of manpower described above will be prepared
by the primary and secondary school systems of Malawi. If properly
qualified candidates for admission to these programs are to be available
in sufficient numbers, the primary and secondary school systems will have
to be improved and expanded.
National Primary Teacher Training College
3.o6.     Although in many primary schools the classrooms, furniture,
and instructional equipment are woefully inadequate, the quality of the
primary teaching is the feature most urgently in need of improvement.
The low quality of teaching is due to the inadequacies of the training
colleges. There are ten assisted and one government Primary Teacher
Training Colleges with a combined enrolment in 1965 of only 1,297. Nine
assisted colleges enroll primary school leavers in a three years' course
and the other two teacher colleges offer a two years' course for holders
of the Junior Certificate. They all lack the number of qualified teacher
trainers required for their present enrolments and are inadequately
equipped. In addition, their limited size (the maximum enrolment in any
year is 60) precludes the employment of specialists and makes their
operation uneconomical. Students are recruited principally from primary
school leavers who were not accepted for admission to secondary schools
and who consider the teacher training colleges as the second best choice.
The combination of the low entrance requirements and the sub-standard
academic program of the teacher training colleges produces primary
teachers who are not able, even when sufficiently motivated, to properly
perform their teaching duties and who therefore have an adverse effect
upon the entire educational system.
3.07.     To correct this, a new type of primary teacher training college
is needed in Malawi. It should be large enough to permit the employment
of highly qualified teacher trainers who will specialize in one subject
or a closely related group of subjects, and should be provided with
modern teaching equipment. Admission requirements should be raised to
the General Certificate or, initially, at least the Junior Certificate.
The curriculum of the new school should prepare students for the highest
primary teacher rating and perhaps, initially, the next highest teacher
rating. This school should be the prototype for the other teacher
training colleges that will be required to produce the numbers of teachers
necessary to keep pace with the planned increases in primary school
enrolment. About 1,000 additional primary teachers will be required by
1970 and 800 per year after 1970 to staff an annual increase of 20,000
pupils per year, to compensate for normal attrition of existing staff,
and to replace gradually the lower-rated level of teachers.



- 13 -
Technical Curriculum in Secondary Schools
3.08.     The present capacity of the secondary school system is
insufficient in relation to the size of the primary school system
(ANNEX 5) and to the demand of the country for secondary school graduates.
In 1965, less than 8% of primary school leavers were able to enter
secondary schools. The 1965 secondary school enrolment, considering
only Forms 1 through 4, was 5,432, only 1.4% of the relevant age group,
and the number awarded General Certificates or Cambridge Overseas
Certificates was only 363. The total intake capacity of the degree
and diploma programs in the Soche Hill Secondary Teachers Training College,
Malawi Polytechnic, and the newly created colleges of the University of
Malawi was 240 in 1965, 400 in 1966, and can be expected to increase
further, but at a slower rate, as funds are made available to the university.
Those who were awarded General Certificates before the university and the
Bunda Agricultural College were started and other post-secondary schools
were expanded, and who now want to enroll in these schools, represent
the short-term solution to the problem of maintaining academic standards
at these institutions. The long-term answer must be an increase in the
numbers of General Certificates earned annually.
3.09.     The proposed addition of one stream to ten selected schools
would not only provide much of the needed secondary school expansion
but would also permit a more effective use of teaching staff and
instructional equipment in secondary schools which at present, with one
exception, consist of only two streams.
3.10.     The introduction of workshop instruction into the secondary
schools would broaden the curriculum and thereby reduce the prevalent
academic bias. It also would provide the opportunity for pupils to develop
practical skills and a technical interest which could serve as a basis
for further technical studies and lead secondary school leavers into
occupations most needed by the economy of Malawi.



- 14 -
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01.     The project consists of (i) the construction and equipment of
one national primary teacher training college and (ii) the provision of
woodworking and metalworking shops, drafting rooms, domestic science
rooms, and supporting facilities to 12 secondary schools to make possible
instruction in technical subjects and an increase in enrolment of one
stream in ten of the schools. The estimated cost of each project item
and the increase in enrolment are summarized below:-
Increased    (U.S. $ millions)              % of
Enrolment Estimated Cost F.E.Component Project
National Primary
Teacher Training
College                        5h0        1.61             1.01         23%
Secondary Schools:
Addition of Technical
Curriculum                   1,86Q        5.39             3.51         77%
TOTAL                         2,400       7.00             4.52        100%
4.02.     The total cost of the proposed project and the foreign exchange
comiponent are estimated at $7.00 million and $4.52 million, respectively.
Approximately 42% of the cost is for construction of academic buildings
and workshops, 12% for student hostels, 12% for staff housing, 13% for site
development, 6% for professional fees, and 15% for furniture and equipment.
The land required, valued at approximately $20,000, and the annual
recurrent costs, estimated at approximately $600,000, will be provided
by the Government.
A. Technical Features
National Primary Teacher Training College
4.03.     The project item consists of the construction and equipment of
a new primary teacher; training college at Lilongwe with an ultimate
enrolment of 540 students, amounting to an increase of 41% in primary
teacher training enrolment in Malawi. The college, under the direct
administrative control of the Ministry of Education, will prepare qualified
teachers of all the subjects in the primary school curriculum and will
establish higher standards of primary teacher training.



- 15 -
Student Body
4.04.     Admission to the first semester of the first year class, which
commences in January, will be restricted to primary teachers for up-
grading. Because the secondary school examination results are not known
until April or May, the first year class of regular teacher trainees
will not begin the two and one-half year course until the second semester
of the school year, which commences in July. Admission to this group
will be competitive, based upon performance in the General Certificate
Examination for those enrolling ir courses leading to the highest primary
toacher grade, and upon performance in the Junior Certificate Examination
for those enrolling in courses leading to the next highest teacher grade.
Eventually, enrolment will be restricted to candidates for the highest
teacher grade. One-third of the onrolment will be girls. The pressure
for admission is expected to be high, probably about nine applicants per
place. Since students will be enrolled on a nation-wide basis without
regard to regional origins, boarding facilities must be provided. As
in the other teacher training colleges in Nalawi, no fees for tuition or
boarding will be charged. Since 800 additional primary teachers per year
will be required after 1970 and the combined output of the teacher training
colleges in 1966 was only 495 lower-rated teachers, the approximately
160 annual output of the school will not meet the country's requirements
for qualified primary school teachers. The proposed school will concentrate,
instead, upon improving the quality of primary teacher training and should
become a prototype of the primary teacher training colleges required in
Malawi. The magnitude of the staff development program described below,
required because of the dearth of qualified teacher trainers, limited
the size and number of primary teacher training colleges that could be
recommended for financing.
Curriculum
4.05.     The curriculum of the proposed primary teacher training college
is well conceived. The two and one-half year course will be divided
among major fields of study as follows:- English, 15%; specialization in
two of the subjects uf the primary school curriculum, 25%; general
subject matter and pedagogy, 60%. An adjoining eight-grade primary school
will provide demonstration and practice teaching. In addition, all
students will spend six weeks per year in full-time teaching practice.
A Certificate of Education will be awarded to those who pass an examination
prepared by the Ministry of Education.
Eouipment
4.06.     A detailed list of instructional equipment has been reviewed
and revised by the appraisal mission and now is adequate to the needs
of the curricula.
Teaching Staff
4.07.     If the proposed college is to produce the required improvement
in the primary teacher training system of Malawi, the quality of its
teaching staff should be far superior to any now in Malawi. In view of the



- 16 -
shortage   of qualified teacher trainers in the country, the tasl cl
forming a high-level teaching staff will require a considerable effort
by the government and initially will require the cooperation of external
assistance agencies to supply substantial numbers of expatriate teachers.
The student/teacher ratio of 15:1, which has been the basis of the
Ministry of Education's estimate of the numbers of teachers that will be
required, is reasonable. The required number of teachers has been
estimated to be 20 in 1970, the first year of operation of the college,
and an additional 16 in 1971. The government expects half of the teachers
required in 1970 and 1971 to be expatriates and the other half to be
Malawians who either have transferred from existing teacher training
colleges or have returned from training overseas. The numbers of expatriate
teachers expected is optimistic but the government has affirmed its
intention of providing from external assistance agencies or from its own
finances, if necessary, at least eight qualified expatriate teachers for
at least four years, commencing about six months before the opening of the
college in 1970. Since the number of Malawians returning from teacher
training overseas will be small, 20 fellowships of one year's duration
are necessary to ensure that adequate numbers will be trained abroad in
time to join the staff of the new college by 1970 and 1971. Ten fellow-
ships at a unit cost of $3,000 to cover the costs of transportation,
subsistence, books, tuition, and other fees for one year have been included
within the project; the remaining fellowships will be provided by the
government or assistance programs. If additional fellowships subsequently
are provided by the government or assistance programs, the number of
fellowships to be financed from the proposed Credit will be reduced
correspondingly. Some of the graduates of the College of Education of
the University of Malawi, who will begin to be available in 1970, could
supplement this number and thereby accelerate the eventual phasing out of
the expatriate teachers.
Technical Curriculum in Secondary Schools
4.08.     This project item consists of the provision of workshops,
drafting rooms, and domestic science rooms for instruction in technical
subjects for all first-year students in twelve secondary schools and
other facilities in ten of the schools to accommodate an additional stream
of pupils who will follow technical courses in all four years. The
existing teaching and residential accommodations vary considerably among
the project schools but the total requirements for this project item
comprise the construction and equipment of 48 classrooms, 12 laboratories,
23 workshops, 7 libraries, 33 staff houses, 22 hostels, 9 assembly halls,
extensive site improvements, additions of administrative and service
facilities, as well as the renovation of some existing buildings. The
total capital cost of the program has been estimated to be the equivalent
of US$5.39 million with a foreign exchange component of $3.51 million.
4.09.     This project item would provide a badly needed increase in the
capacity of the secondary school system (ANNEX 18), broaden the curriculum
of all academic stream pupils by providing at least one year of workshop
practice in woodwork, metalwork, and technical drawing, or domestic
science for girls and, through the four-year technical program, produce



- 17-
s2ccndary school certificate holders who will be more suited to technica.
employment or to higher technical education. The new facilities would
benefit 5,040 pupils, of whom 1,760 l/would be in the new technical
streams. The new pupils would represent 46% of the planned expansion
of secondary school enrolment by 1970.
4.10.   The twelve project schools include nine government and three
assisted secondary schools. Girls constitute one-third of the enrolment
of all the schools except for one boarding school which is restricted to
boys. The schools are located in centers of rural population scattered
throughout Malawi.
4.11.    All students, including those eventually to be placed in the
technical streams, would be admitted to the secondary schools on the basis
of marks attained in the Primary School Certificate Examination. The
number of qualified applicants for admission to the expanded project schools
is adequate, with the ratio of primary school leavers in the regions
in which the schools are located to the seats available ranging from eight
to one to twenty-eight to one. A limited number of scholarships financed
by a few business firms and administered by the Ministry of Education is
available to assist needy pupils in defraying the standard secondary school
fees of I7.5 for tuition and 210 for boarding.
4.12     Pupils will not be selected for the technical streams. until the
completion of Form 1 so that all may acquire at least one year's instruc-
tion in technical subjects and thereby have an opportunity to assess
their aptitude for technical studies before choosing between academic or
technical curricula. The student's choice, together with the judgment
of the technical instructors, will determine who will be selected for the
technical streams.
4.13.    The duration of the technical education program, academic
standards, and examination procedures will be the same as for the academic
program and will lead, after the completion of the four-year course, to
the Cambridge Overseas School Certificate. Students enrolled in technical
streams will receive the same amount of instruction in English, mathemat-
ics, and science as the students in the academic streams. Instead of
studying Nyanga or Tumbuka and two courses from among history, geography,
and French, as the academic stream pupils do, the boys in the technical
streams will take woodwork, metalwork, and technical drawing;  the girls
will have domestic science. The technical subjects will be taught, not
to provide skills, but as a basis for further training in higher technical
education or in industry. The curriculum is consistent with and should
achieve this objective.
1/ The increased enrolment of 1,860 pupils would include 100
academic stream pupils (ANNEX 18).



- 18 -
Equipment
4.14.    Lists of equipment for the workshops, laboratories, drafting,
and domestic science rooms have been prepared by the Ministry of Education.
These lists have been revised by the appraisal mission and are considered
to be adequate.
Teachers
4.15.     The number of technical and domestic science teachers required
by the introduction of technical studies into the proposed schools will
increase from 19 in 1969 to the maximum number of 72 in 1971. By 1971,
the cumulative output of technical teachers from the l4alawi Polytechnic
should equal the number of technical teachers required by the secondary
schools. The problem of providing qllalified M4alawians for the proposed
domestic science courses (varying from nine in 1969 to 28 in 1971) is
more difficult because of the complete absence of any program to train
domestic science teachers. Until sufficient numbers of qualified Malawian
technical teachers and domestic science teachers are available, the
government has promised to provide qualified expatriate teachers either
from its own finances or from assistance programs. The government also
has guaranteed adequate financing for a program, which has been accepted
by the Association, for training Malawian domestic science teachers to
phase out the expatriates.
B. Costs
4.16.     The estimated capital costs of the various parts of the
proposed project and the foreign exchange component are shown below
in U.S. dollar equivalents:
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
by
MAJOR CATEGORIES OF EXPENDITURE
Total            Foreign
$ Million          Exchange           % of
Construction            Equivalent          $ Million        Project
School Buildings            2.52              1.51              2
Student Hostels            0.75               o.45              12
Staff Housing               0.75              o.45              12
Site Development           0.77               o.46             13
Professional Fees          0.38               0.29               6
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION COST    5.17               3.16              85
Equipment
Furniture                   0.33              0.19               5
Instructional Equipment    0.61                                 1058  lo
TOTAL EQUIPMENT COST       0.94               0.77              15
FELLOWSHIPS                0.03               0.03              _
TOTAL           6.14               3.96            100
Contingencies   0.86               O.°- 6           14
TOTAL PROJECT COST         7.00



- 19 -
4.17.     Unit costs per square foot of $7.00 for academic buildings
and student hostels, $8.50 for assembly-dining facilities, $7. 50 for
staff housing and $12.00 for bath, toilet, and kitchen facilities are
considered reasonable for the Blantyre/Limbe area. In other parts of
Malawi construction costs vary with the accessibility and distance from
the Blantyre/Limbe areas and range from a 5% increase in the Southern
Region to 20% in the Central Region and 50% in the Northern Region. The
individual percentage increases are considered reasonable in view of the
haulage rates and availability of labor.
4.18.     The construction cost estimates for the proposed project
(ANNEX 19) have been derived from recent building experience, are based
upon gross building cost per square foot and are realistic. Costs of
renovating existing buildings were based upon a field inspection and are
considered adequate to upgrade buildings in poor condition. Minor repairs
were not included and buildings judged obsolete were recommended for
clearance. Site development costs were based upon standards above the
normal practice in Malawi and include construction of paths, covered walks,
and utilities but still in accordance with austere standards.
4.19.     In addition, a contingency allowance of 14% of the estimated
project cost was included, which is reasonable. The unstable political
situation in Rhodesia has curtailed construction activities and sharply
increased building costs in Malawi. The Ministry of Works and Supplies
and private quantity surveyors estimate that following the declaration
of independence by Rhodesia the building costs in Malawi increased by 12%
to 18%. Future price increases are not likely to rise that sharply and,
together with the cost of unforeseen construction problems, should be
absorbed by the contingency allowance.
4.20.     Capital costs per student benefiting from these facilities
are about $1,950 for the secondary schools. Capital costs per student
for the National Primary Teacher Training College amount to $2,592, which
is reasonable for an institution of this type. The capital costs include
academic buildings, communal facilities, student hostels, staff housing,
professional fees, equipment, and furniture but not the contingency
allowance.
4.21.     The foreign exchange component (ANNEX 19) is high and ranges
from 60% for construction to 95% for equipment, nearly all of which will
be imported. A shortage of locally produced building materials in
Malawi will necessitate the importation of most of the construction
materials. The curtailment of the supply of building materials from Rhodesia
since its unilateral declaration of independence has sharply increased
the costs of imported materials in Malawi and, consequently, the foreign
exchange component of construction projects. Although school furniture
can be locally manufactured, all fittings, which represent 60% of the
cost of school furniture, must be imported. The foreign exchange component
of the architects' fees is estimated at 75%, because the shortage of local
architects necessitates the employment of foreign consultants. The
foreign exchange costs of the project are estimated to total $4.52 niillion.



- 20 -
4.22.     Although high priority has been assigned to education within
the current Five-Year Development Plan (1965-1969), the Malawi Government,
because of its limited financial resources, would not be able to contribute
more than £250,000 to the total cost of the project of £2.5 million,
i.e., 10%. Assurances have been given both by the iMinistry of Finance
and the Ministry of Education that the necessary provisions have been
made in the budget forecast up to 1970 to meet the increasing recurrent
costs of education, including the impact of this proposed project. The
estimated total recurrent costs of this project, £220,000, would amount
to 7% of the Central Government's projected total recurrent expenditure
on education by 1970.
C. Construction
Land
4.23.     The Board of Governors and the owners of the three assisted
secondary schools (Blantyre, Malosa, and H.Henderson Institute) have
agreed to make available promptly to the government the land required for
the expansion of these schools and to use the new buildings and equipment
for the purposes of the project. Seventy acres of government-owned land
will be provided for the primary teacher training college at Lilongwe and
ten acres required by each of four government-owned schools will be provided
by the government.within'twelve-months of the date of the proposed credit
agreement. The other schools in the project have ample land for expansion.
Accommodation
4.24.     Classroom sizes are based on 15 square feet per student,
including storage spaces, and are reasonable. Laboratories have 1,200
square feet for classes of 40 students and include preparation and storage
space. Technical drawing rooms are based on 22.5 square feet per student,
including storage space. Domestic science rooms are based on 50 square
feet per student including storage spaces. Workshops have been calculated
on the basis of 50 square feet per student. All of these areas are
considered reasonable. The areas of communal facilities are based upon a
double sitting in the dining room while accommodating the entire school
population for assembly purposes. Austere kitchen facilities have been added.
4.25.     The small amount of urbanization, with only three towns having
more than 10,000 persons, and the almost non-existent public transportation
system makes mandatory the provision of boarding facilities in some
secondary schools in Malawi. Eight of the twelve project schools will
require hostels for students from extensive catchment areas.  Student hostels
with double bunks are proposed for 80% of the school population in rural
areas and for 20% of the school population for schools located in Blantyre/
Limbe, Zomba, and Lilongwe. All student hostels will be designed to be
convertible to teaching spaces. The proposed boarding facilities represent
the minimum requirements for the proposed enrolments and account for 12%
of the estimated total project cost.



- 21 -
4.26.     In the proposed primary teacher training college, the percentage
of the teaching staff to be provided with houses was increased to
approximately 80% in order to accommodate the expatriate teachers described
earlier and house some of the Malawian staff. The British Ministry of
Overseas Development has stated that the lack of suitable housing has
limited the number of British teachers which the Ministry could supply to
Malawi. The staff of qualified teachers, which has been described earlier
as essential to achieve the required up-grading of primary teacher
training standards, is not likely to be realized without this amount of
housing.
4.27.     In the project secondary schools, houses will be provided where
necessary to accommodate 50% of the teaching staff. The number of houses
to be added per school varies from three to ten; no houses will be added
to six of the schools. Due to the scarcity of adequate housing, this
amount is recommended to recruit and retain qualified secondary school
teachers.
4.28.     The costs of the staff houses in the primary teacher training
college and the project secondary schools have been estimated on the basis
of austere standards and account for 12% of the total cost of the project.
Architectural Services
4.29.     Because of the shortage of government architects in Malawi,
proper execution of the project would impose too heavy a workload on the
Chief Architectts Office in the Ministry of Works and Supplies.  Consequentl3,
two firms of consulting architects experienced in school design will be
employed to prepare site plans, designs, working drawings and specifications,
supervise tendering, contract awards, construction work, and to authorize
payment. Draft contracts between the government and the two firms of
architects have been approved by the Association.
Execution of the Project
4.30.     A full-time Project Director, acceptable to the Association,
has been appointed to supervise the activities of a newly established
administrative unit in the Ministry of Works and Supplies. The Project
Director's office will be responsible for the over-all supervision of
the project and will consist of the following sections:- architectural/
engineering; equipment procurement; and accounting.
4.31.     The construction industry in Malawi has the capacity to handle
efficiently the volume of construction in the project. The tendering
system presently used in Malawi is satisfactory. The construction schedule
(ANNEX 20) proposed by the Ministry of Works and Supplies contained
inadequate time for construction and no allowance for time required for
design and international competitive bidding procedures. Consequently,
initiation of construction in the recommended schedule lags behind the
proposed dates.



- 22 -
4.32.     All construction and equipment procurement contracts will be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding, although the
small size of some construction contracts may inhibit wide international
participation.
4.33.     Withdrawals from the Credit Account would reimburse 90% of
the amounts expended in executing the project subsequent to the date of
the Credit Agreement. Withdrawals would not exceed U.S.$6.3 million
equivalent or 90% of the actual project cost, whichever may be the
smaller; undisbursed amounts would be available for cancellation. In
the event that expenditures should exceed the present estimated project
cost of $7.0 million, such excess would be met by the Malawi government.
Disbursements (ANNEX 21), based upon the recommended schedule of
construction, are expected to vary from 4% of the Credit in 1967 to a
maximum of 53% in 1969.



- 23 -
V. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOIMENDATIONS
5.01.     The low quality of teaching in primary schools is having an
adverse effect upon the entire educational system of Malawi and constitutes
the most urgent need for improvement in education. The proposed primary
teacher training college will contribute directly towards a solution by
improving primary teacher training standards (paras. 3.06, 4.03, 4.04).
5.02.     An expansion of the secondary school system is needed to correct
the present unbalanced educational pyramid and also to supply better
qualified candidates for admission to post-secondary institutions and the
newly created colleges of the University of Malawi. The proposed addition
of technical studies to the secondary school system will make possible
46% of the planned expansion of enrollment while providing a broader
secondary school curriculum designed to assist students to become better
prepared either to pursue post-secondary technical studies or to gain
employment in technical fields (paras. 3.08 - 3.10, 4.09).
5.03.     The curricula of the primary teacher training college and the
secondary schools are well conceived to achieve their respective objectives.
An ample supply of qualified candidates for admission and a strong demand
for the output of the schools in the project exists at present and will
continue (paras. 3.01 - 3.05, 3.07, 4.04, 4.05).
5.04.     The proposed schedules of accommodation are reasonable and the
estimates of cost are realistic. Equipment lists for the secondary schools
and the primary teacher training college have been reviewed and are
acceptable (paras. 4.06, 4.14, 4.24).
5.05.     The project has been assigned a high priority in the national
Development Plan (1965-1969) and appropriate provision has been made in
the investment programs (paras. 2.19, 4.22).
5.o6.     The project will be executed under the administrative control
of a Projects Office to be created within the Ministry of Works and
Supplies.  Two firms of architects will design the buildings and private
contractors will perform all construction under contract. International
competitive bidding procedures will be followed in awarding civil works
contracts and procuring equipment and furniture (paras. 4.29, 4.30, 4.32).
5.07.     Assurances have been obtained from the Malawi Government on
the following:-
a)  Sufficient headquarters personnel will be employed within the
Inspectorate of the Ministry of Education to maintain an
adequate schedule of inspection (para.2.03).
b)  All required land will be provided by the government and the
owners of the assisted schools within twelve months of the
date of the credit agreement (para. 4.23).



- 24 -
c)  At least eight qualified expatriate teachers will be
recruited for the proposed primary teacher training college,
commencing about six months before the college opens, and
20 fellowships of one year's duration each will be provided
for the overseas training of experienced teachers (para.h.07).
d)  The government has guaranteed the finances necessary to
employ the numbers of experienced expatriate technical and
domestic science teachers required by the addition of a
technical curriculum to the secondary school system. A
training program to qualify Malawians to replace the expatriate
domestic science teachers, acceptable to the Association,
has been formulated with adequate financial support (para4.15).
e) A Project Office consisting of the following sections will
be established within the Ministry of Works and Supplies
to administer this project: architecture/engineering;
procurement; and accounting and reporting (para.4.30).
5.08.     In addition, the following conditions for signing the credit
agreement have been fulfilled:-
a)  A full-time Project Director acceptable to the Association
has been appointed to supervise the activities of the Project
Office (para.h.30).
b)  Draft contracts between the government and two selected firms
of architects have been approved by the Association (para.4.29).
5.09.     With the assurances given by the Government of MSalawi on
the above issues and with the conditions for signing the credit agreement
already met, the project provides a suitable basis for the proposed IDA
credit of $6.3 million to the Government of Malawi.
April 17, 1967



MALAWI: OUTLINE OF SCHOOL SYSTEM
UNIVERSITY
SECONDARY SCHOOLS
SECONDARY TEACHER
TRAINING COLLEGES
AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE
PRIMARY
PROPOSED PRIMARY TEACHER
TRAINING COLLEGE
'--L  I jF-221i
TECHNICAL INSTITUTE
PRIMARY TEACHER
TRAINING COLLEGES
PRIMARY TEACHER
TRAINING COLLEGES
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8                 9    10             1l   12            13    14   15   16   17  YEAR
(R) IBRD - 3054 | 



VOCATIONAL
GUIDANCE
TECHNICAL AND
VOCATIONAL
SECONDARY
SCHOOLS                                   I
REGIONAL EDUCATION*                                                  _n
OFFICERS             _'1
PRIMARY                                n, P1
_SCHOoLs*__    _                                       
DISTRICT EDUCATION*         C                                      11OD*                                     C
OFFICERS                                                              -          t
TEACHER              _                    O
TRAINING*                                 z           3                         * -
>~~
m                         P
MALAWI BOOK                                           Z
SERVICE              _1
m
STAFFING AND                                          0
|ESTABLISHMENTS       r                               
m~~~~
DEVELOPMENT          _      D-                                                  0
AND PLANNING         Z       ZD - 
o                                                   m
| STATISTICS*                                                          ZC
s            | CENTER              l l                 \~~~~~~~n  n |               ZZ
I                                                                                                  m ' I  I    I   r    I O
0          _
z                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-n
0
-n~~~~~~-
FRENCH LANGUAGEK
CENTER                                  2nz 
ENGLISH LANGUG
CENTER                                                I-
PUBLICATIONS                                          m                         -
z~~
DISTRICT INSPECTORS*       REGIONAL INSPECTOR*                                                             Z
OF PRIMARY SCHOOLS   r   OF PRIMARY METHODS             n        |n0
0                  ~~~0Cl
Z >U)
|INSPECTOR OF                          0 Z
To              0 ~Z        1W
SECONDARY SCHOOLS                      0  0 O I
10                                       C
|   )I        |r c |W                               C)
EXAMINATIONS         L     I1o
OFFICER                    0* |i
IREGIONAL INSPECTOR
OF GIRLS' EDUCATION   n
SCHOOL
BROADCASTING
CORRESPONDENCE
0 ,                           | COLLEGE
0
Z X3NNV



MAIAWI REPUBLIC
Distribution of Enrolment by Grade in Primary Schools - 1965
Government Schools                   Assisted Schools                      Unassisted Schools                   Total for all Schools
T o-f                                 %.of                                 %of-                                    7 o
Grade 1                               Grade 1                              Grade 1                                 Grade 1
Enrol-                                Enrol-                               Enrol-                                  Enrol-
Boys  Girls   Total    ment       BOys    Girls      Total    ment       Boys    Girls   Total    ment       Boys      Girls      Total    ment
Grade 1    783    694   1,477   100.0    29,645   23,277    52,922   100.0    15,889   12,822  28,711   100.0    46,317    36,793    83,110   100.0
Grade 2    739    598   1,337    90.5    23,673   15,496    39,169    71h.0   10,517    7,531  18,048    63.0    34,929    23,625    58,554    70.5
Grade 3    703    552   1,255    85.0    22,838   13,969    36,807    69.5   11,430    5,209  16,639    58.0    314,971    19,730    54,701    65.8
Grade 4    612    406   1,018    69.0    21,365   11,718    33,083    62.5        5,748    3,294   9,042    31.4    27,725    15,1418    43,143    52.0
Grade 5    480    309      789    53.4    20,111    9,711    29,822    56.14      4,604    2,026   6,630    23.1    25,195    12,046    37,241    44.8
Grade 6    454    276      730    49.5    17,292    7,869    25,161    47.5         198        96     294     1.0    17,944       8,241    26,185    31.5
Grade 7    698    379   1,077    72.9    24,158    7,414    31,572    59.6          200        87     287     1.0    25.056      7,880    32,936    39.7
TOTAL   14,169  3,214   7,683            159,082   89,454   248,536              48,586   31,065  79,651             212,137   123,733   335,870



PRIMARY ENROLMENT
(All schools)
Grades and Progression Rates
0    ~ ~ ~                    000                                                   0
e                C                 C                 0~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~) 0)        0
0)0)  0~~0)           0)0)             0)~0) 40)0                          0)4                  (0
o  4'               Pe              -P4             to                 0)-to            0).o                                       co
it                0                 0                0                 0                  0                0                   0 
0)  ~ ~ ~ ..    ~     ~    -.               $~k$                                                  $-.                 k0
,-     p-.      Cmi      0',-             l         _:      0-.       VI-f.             '0      0-.                 O-.                    E-.
1958    106,820            61,800            35,860     7     24,840- 9          21,010             8,160o..8          6,300 -.    4      4,910    269,690
1959    112,270.-       69,360    60    40,310 7              27,300 -           23,360 -           8,870_.            6,640.     92 '%.5,270    293,480
1960    lol,69o _          62,980         -41,700             29,610.    -       25,760         -  9,80O               7,520              6,ogo    285,16o
196058-'69_                       -78              - 98             -    42                83                          6,9 9
1961      81,h20....9.~    58,600....92 - 43,160              32,290    -        28,950         -  10,730         -   8,130           -  7,090      270,380
79         ~92..          - 91            -'113                - 59             '-100                 121
1962     95,930...         64,410__          54,100       - 39,380          __36,510               17, 000        --'10,740            - 9,860    327,920
75               90..              86....      -- -93              *_-77 _~.        -    94             -  119
1963      96,720          -72,330            58,130           46,510          -  36,540    -       28,280    0-i16,030                   12,810    367,350
1964      89,220- 67,270                     58,890           44,940             38,7100                           ',loo30,720             -        359,840
'--65            --~ 81.           -- 73 --              83-               67             - 10
1965      83,110        -          -58,55o  - 54,700          43,140             37,240            26,180             32,940               _        335,870
1/   Percentage of students proceeding to next higher grade.  Percentages above 100 are due to repeaters and returning drop-outs.



MALAWI: EDUCATION STRUCTURE AND ENROLMENT (1965)
YEAR OF
SCHOOL
SCHOOL                                                                  UNIVERSITY OF MALAWI (310)
17                                                                              
SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGES
16                                                                 K           | (BOYS AND GIRLS 160)
15
14
13
12
BOYS                                                  GIRLS
10   SECONDARY (8,019)                                                     PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGES
(BOYS AND GIRLS 1,320)
9
8
7
6
5
lPRIMARY (35,870)
3
2                                                       :X-
50,000     40,000      30,000       20,000      10,000                  10,000      20,000      30,000      40,000
BOYS                                                  GIRLS
2
(R) IBRD -3055



ANIEX 6
SECON]DAIRY SCHOOL i,ZTROLLMENIT
A. ALL SCHOOLS, 1961 - 1965
Year     Grade 8*    Form 1  Form 2    Form 3    Form h    Forms 5 & 6  TOTAL
1961         -          593      532       216          84          26      14h9
1962         -          949     575        369         253         h4       2190
1963         _          970      952       612         372        -15       3041
1964       169         1498      9 7       914         603        -117       089
1965       2L81        1693    1680       1123         936          06      8019
- Included in secondary school system for 196U'. and 1965 only.
B. D1STRTBiJTI1';fI F 1965 SECOHPwIRY ENTROLTLE TT By F[Pi  OF SCTiOOL
Unassisted          Assisted          G-overnment
Grade 8           125                791                1565
Form 1             81                772                 840
Form 2             86                772                 822
Form 3             56                720                 347
Form 4             32                698                 206
Forms 5 i 6        -                  45                  61
TO2AL                      380               3798                3841



ANNEX 7
PROBABLE SOURCES OF SECONDARY SCHOOL STAFF
A.  MALAWIA-S                      1966    1967    1968    1969        1970
(2)  University of Malewi      -        -       -        -          20
(b)  Soche Hill                 34    63(294  93(30)  143(5o)   193(5o)
(c) Returned from st'idies
abroad                      7    15(8)   17(2)    17          18(1)
(d)  Polytechnic (technical)    -       -       -        15        45(30)
(e)  Now in service             15   145       45         5
SUB-TOTAL A                      86   123     155       220        321
B. EXPATRIATEs
(a)  Civil Service              40    40       40        30         4
(b)  Missionary Staff          100   100      100       100       100
(c)  Technical Assistance       15    15       15        15        15
SUB-TOTAL B                    155   155      1`5       145       119
C. VOLJNTAR?  S-RVICES
(a) British Volunteer Service  20    20        20        20        20
Organization
(b) U.S. Peace Corps           149    35       -
SUB-TOTAL C                    169    55       20        20         20
TOTAL A, B A1'D C              410   333      330       385       46o
Numbers Mieeded/               315   345      375       385       415
Shortfall                        -    12       45        -         -
JY Figures in brackets show arnrLu. a*dditions. -
27   Based on average student-teacher ratio of 33:1.



MALAWI
TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS SUTPEBVISED BY THE MINISPRY OF EDUCATION
Annual
Admission    Completion           Intake       Present        1966
Institution                          Type         Courses           Duration       Level         Award            Capacity    Enrolment       Output
Soche Technical Training Center      Government  Building trades  3 years        Form 1        City & Guilds
Craft Certificate    40            110            28
Lilongwe Technical Training Center  Government  Building trades  3 years         Form 1 in    City and Guilds        4o            95            36
1965, Form 2 Craft Certificate
in 1966
Mzuzu Trade School                   Assisted    Building trades  3 years        Form 1        Trade Test 2          30            90            40
Nam. tete Trade School               Assisted    Building trades  2 years        Form 1        Trade Test 2          65           130            17
Montandani Trade School               Assisted    Building and      1-4 years   Form 1         Trade Tests           20            20            14
mechanical                                  3 to 1
trades
Stella Maris Secondary School        Assisted    Domestic Science 1 year         Form 1          --                  40            40             0
-Malawi Polytechnic                   Government  Building &                                   Trade
mechanical                                  Certificates           75            75             0
trades            4 years     Form 3        and City
Laboratory                                  and Guilds
Technicians       3 years     Form 3        Craft Certificate    25,             25             0
Commercial                    Forms
Studies           1-3 years   1 & 3         Diploma               130           202            61
Malawi Polytechnic                    Government  Diploma Techni-  3 years       GCE           Diploma              100             65             0
cians in engin-
eering, motor
mech., and public
health
Technical teacher 1 year      Diploma       Technical Teacher    30              15             0
training                                    Certificate
co



MALl :,I
TPAINIMG PQOGRAM¶S OF VARIOUS MITNISTRIES
Adrnission
Acti:itv                        School                         Type of Course                    Intake      Requirement
Ministry of Natural Resources  Bunda College of Agriculture  Three years diploma course             60       Form
Farm Institutes in each  of   Short courses for farmers and                  2
three regions                   inservice training field staff
to
Chongoni Forest School         Two years - Technical Assistanit
level                              25        Form
Mikolonslwe Veterinary School  One year _ Veterinary Assist-ant    25        4
Department of Posts and         Post Office Training School   Two -years telecommunications                  Form
Telecommunications                                             engineering - Technical assistant             2
level                            varies
Ministry of Works              Correspondence courses and      2 yrs., 9 mos. Technical assistants
inservice training              in Civil Engineering, Architecture,           Ferm
Quantity Surveying, Mechanical                2
Engineering, Materials, Work
Study, and Hydrology                 60 max.
varies
Zomba Training Center          2 weeks to 1 year for foremen
and supervisors of building
and highway construction.



ANNEX 10
STUDENT3 STUDYING ABROAD
i. 'Jniversities
Subject                                          Total
Agriculture                                        20
Architecture                                        8
Arts                                               36
Business and Commerce                               9
Economics                                          38
Civil Engineering                                   6
Civil Engineering Dip.                              5
Electrical Engineering                              6
Ilechanical Engineering                             8
Miscellaneous Engineering                           3
Economics Agricultural                              1
Education                                          10
Forestry                                            5
Geology                                             1
Journalism                                          2
Law                                                35
Medicine                                           32
Pre-Medicine                                       12
Pharmacy                                            4
Quantity Survey                                     1
Science                                            21
Sociology                                           4
Survey                                              1
Veterinary Science                                  8
Towin Planning                                      1
Sub-total           27
2.  Nursing                                              103
3.  Other non-degree courses                             190
Total               570



TOTAL VOLUME OF PROJECTED
MALAWI: CENTRAL GOVERNMENT CAPITAL                                                                              CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION BY MAIN SECTORS,                                                                       DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE
EXPENDITURE   ON   EDUCATION   BY   MAIN   SECTORS,                                                             ON  EDUCATION  BY FINANCIAL
2.0 1964. 1969                                                                                5.6                 5SOURCES, 1967-1969   14.0
MISCELLANEOUS POST-SECONDARY,
SCHOLARSHIPS, ADMINISTRATIVE
UNIVERSITY (Including Institute of                                           REMAINING PART
TO BE FINANCED BY
Public Administration)                                                     MALAWI GOVERNMENT                        SCHOLARSHIPS
TRADE AND TECHNICAL (Including Polytechnic)                                 OR OTHER SOURCES                        EXTERNALLY
1IPE{ .~  . TEACHER TRAINING (Primary and Secondary)                        4.2
.5 IDA PROJECT   *<
IDA PROJEC T{  t -}SECONDARY (Including technical streams)
IDACTA PROJECTED
PROPOSED IDA CR4EDIT
PRIMARY                                                                                         (Excluding phase 1970)
n                                               I-
a..                                                z
1.028                                                                                                                                                       -
(I)
z                                                                                                                  )
0                                                                               -        /r                       Q.:.:::::::.;0
2                      ~~~~5.6   >
U,
.5                                                                                           14LASADGAT
..............  ..   ..........                                     I                               2 .8
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
1964          1965           1966           1967           1968           1969
.4E             ~~~ACTUAL   PROJECTED
z
* Partly revised according to size and phasing of IDA project (excluding phase 1970).                                                                    I'1
(3R)IBRD-3013 X



ANNEX  12
COLLCTIO,I OF FJL S
(Pounas)
Central              Local               Voluntary Agencies
Year               Government            Authorities              (estimates)
1963                     --                146,8oo               120,000
1964                h8,000                 202,1h0                70,000
1965               110,370                   _-
1966               122,500')
1967               125,0O0**)
1968               130,000  )
3) Not available
-**) Forecast estimates by Ministry of Finance.



ANNEX 13
MALAWI: CENTRAL GOVERNMENT RECURRENT
EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION BY MAIN
SECTORS, 1961-1970*
3.5s- -  I                                                              -,                     9.8
ADMINISTRATIVE
3.0                                                                                            8.4
2.5 0                                                                                          7.0
o  RECURRENT EXPENDITURE E         /
z 
o                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
a.                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
0   2.0                            ....IMAF                                                     5. .   .S
z0
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-J                                                                                .......... . . . .
1.0                                                                                            2.8
.5                                                                                           1.4
0                                                                                         0
1961     1962      1963     1964       1965     1966       1967     1968      1969      1970
<                           ~~~~~~ACTUAL   PROJECTED
* Expenditures including reimbursable funds under British Overseas Service Aid Scheme and Government grants to Local
Authorities and Voluntary Agencies; fees not deducted. 1969 and 1970 preliminary forecast estimates only.
Figures partly adjusted according to proposed size nd phasing of IDA project.        ( 3R)tRD -s3014



ANNEX 14
MALAWI: CENTRAL GOVERNMENT RECURRENT
BUDGET AND SHARE OF EDUCATIONAL
EXPENDITURE, 1964-1969*
17                                                                         47.6
16    _~Z44.8
1 5                                                                        42.0
\ 14                 __.r                                                  39.2
13                              .  ......236.4
2~~~~~~~____ 7____ ____-~     33.6
I                                                                          130.8
TOTAL REVENUE    EPDU                                 -8 E
Cl)  10F__                                                          
z0
2                                           -,22.48                              o
0                                                                                      r
_j                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
7                                                                          1I9.6
6                                                    - 1                   16.8
96         -                 19                                            14.0
4'-                                                                         11.0
oTOTAL RECURRENT EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION
3                                              __-8.4
?L                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5.6
1964          1965          1966           1967          1968          1969
-IC                  ACTUAL  PROJECTED                                -
* Expenditures excluding reimbursable funds under the British Overseas Service Aid Scheme.
1969 preliminary forecast only.
**Financed by British budgetary Grant-in-aid.                          (2R)IBRD -3011



ANNEX 15
MALAWI: CENTRAL GOVERNMENT AVERAGE
RECURRENT COST OF EDUCATION PER
PUPIL, 1961-1970*
450            l         l         l                                                         1,260
400                                                                                           1,120
SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING
COLLEGE REACHING FULL CAPACITY AND
UTILIZATION ACCORDING TO PROPOSED
NEW COLLEGE STARTED                  EXPANSION PROGRAM98
350                                                                                          980
200                                      X                                    - _ _  560
PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ao 150                                                                                           420 
100                                                                                         280
SECONDARY
(ICUDN  TECNICAL  STREAMS)   >
50                                                                                          140
DRO DU TOHIGERENROLLMENT BECAUSE OF
TEMPORARY CHANGE IN SCHOOL SYSTEM
PRIMARY
0I                                                          0
1961     1962    1963    1964        1965      1966      1967     1968      1969     1970
ACTUAL    PROJECTED                         :ON
* Actual ond projected enrollments, excluding unassisted schools.
1969 and 1970 based on preiiminary projections of recurrent expenditures.          (2R)IBRD -3012



ANlEX 16
MALAWI
FIRST LEVEL MANPOT,ER REQUTREIfEMTS 1965-1970
(Professional and administrative staff, degree - level or equivalent)
ToT,al iequire-                 Additional
mentl! by'      Expected        training
Type of Post                      1970            Output from    requirement
1970       ~~Current
Training
Programs 2/
Administrative, Educational, 31
Journalism                    564                105               459
Botany, Chemistry, Biology,
Pharmacy                      134                 35                99
Agriculture and Livestock           61                25                36
Forestry                            20                11                 9
Civil Engineering                   54                11                43
Quantity Survey                      5                 1                 4
Law                                 49                38                11
Mathematics and Physics Ui,
IPleteorology                   92                --                92
Electrical and Miscellaneous
Engineering                    13                  9                 4
Mechanical Engineering               9                 9                --
Community and Social Development
Survey                         25                 23                 2
Labor                              14                  5                 9
Medical, Surgical, Dental           68                41                27
Architecture and Town Planning      17                15                 2
Commerce, Economics, Business
Statistics                      54                5                 --
Veterinary                          12                12                --
Geology                             14                 2                12
Totals                 1205                396              809
1/  Including estimated private sector requirement and assuming Malawianization
by 1970 (excluding 59 posts already held by Nalawians).
2/ Including those students abroad expected to return by 1970.
3/ Among this total: 486 degree level teachers including 102 science teachers
*   (excluding Physics).
4/ Basically teachers (90).



ANNEX 17
MAIAWI
SECOND LEVEL MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS 1965-1970
(Sub-professionals, diploma level, technicians, S. C.
holders plus training or equivalent)
Total Require-  Expec t&d          Additional
Type of Post                    ment 1/ by       output from         training
1970             Current Training  requirement
Programs 2/
Accounting, Auditing, Taxation    208                  3                 205
Executive, Administrative,
Secretarial                     242               138                 104
Education 3/                       532                20                 512
Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries 142                 31                 111
Forestry, Game Control              24                 5                  19
Geology                              4                 2                   2
Civil Aviation (Operations and
Control)                        11                 7                   4
Customs                             36                 7                  29
Cooperative                         17                --                  17
Prisons                             13                 9                   4
Nursery 4/                         141                80                  61
Health Inspection, Hospital
Administration                   6                 1                   5
Radiography, Physiotherapy,
Dental Mechanic                 14                 2                  12
Police and Immigration             134                28                 106
Stores Supervisors                  21                10                  11
Non-mechanical technology          189                33                 156
Mechanical technology               91                14                  77
Electronics                        120                36                  84
Laboratory Technology              15                  5                  10
Miscellaneous Technology            35                 7                  28
Survey, Drafting                    23                 8                  15
Postal                              22                 5                  17
Totals            2040                451               1589
1/  Including estimated private sector requirement and assuminrg I4alawianization
by 1970 (excluding 524 posts already held by Malawians).
2/  Including students abroad expected to return during period given.
3/ Education officers and Assistant Education officers, i.e., mainly teachers
(diploma level or comparable); 68 posts filled by Malawians in 1965.
4/  Of about 100 female nurses currently being trained abroad approximately
4 is expected to be lost through marriage, etc.., and is taken into
consideration in the figures given.



ENROIPHEINTS IN PROJE'IT SECONDARY SCHOOLS
School         Type of School                Present         Proposed Changes
Capacity       in enrolment                 Ultimate Capacity
Academic   Academic        Technical     Total               Total
Students   Students        Students      Students            Streams
Soche          Government, mixed                2L[0      + 80             +160          480                   3
Malosa         Assisted,  mixed                 300       - 60             +120           360                  3
Blantyre       Assisted, mixed                  360       -120             +120          360                   3
H. Henderson   Assisted, day, mixed             320          0             +160          480                   3
Institute
Dedza          Government, boys                 360       -120             +120          360                   3
Chichiri       Government, day, mixed           480          0             +160           640                  4
Zomba          Government, mixed                240          0             +160          400                   34-
/1                                                           /
LiloL-lgwe     Government,  mixed               2140-        0             +160          400                   3L-
Mzuzu          Government,  mixed               240          0             +120           360                  3
Mzimba         Government,  mixed                80        +160            +160           400                  3/2
Cholo          Government,  mixed               160        + 80            +160           400                  3/2
Mlanje         Government,  mixed               160        + 80            +160           400                  3/
Totals                   3180        +100           +1760          5040
/1  NOW i.rder construction.                                                                                           x
72  Two t-reams in last two forms.                                                                                     HI



ANNEXO 19
GOVERM4UNT OF MALWI
OUI9AOOOF 0CT5
0J. S. $ miUlio)_______                                                                                                                               _______
H. Om06r-o      1                                                                                                                                                                         Nationa
5000         ...oa            BloayH            Inat tut  Oa.,          Ded.a              ChOhlolo              ZoaOlo0                                   No                  Faimb.               0h.l.               ElOle           rta   T_acte           000
PROaOCT SCHOLS00.3'                             ...day, Toodary.    Ooodo,               Seotndar7           S .... d-y,        Oq Toc-d a7                                  ...oao  SodOO7    Seo0ar                S--.7odo            0600a0y             S00OfldOy        T,.aloln  Colleg.       000CH00E
Blattyre            malOe               Bal-y,.              Sety..                D.d..            Blaatyrn/11,.           FeeLi I-g-                               M-.a                 HoolailOnbOni                                              Lilono Cp00N
Total  2.0.  Total   9>1.    Fo~~Ttal    ?.E.      Total      F.O.      Total      0..      T-ta        F.0.     FTal       F.0.     Pa            S      oa          ..       Ttl        ..        FNi        06         o          ..    T.tal       7.0.
CONSTROCTION
A. del B6ildiog.         0.079      0.017     0.093     0.056     0.006     0.033     0.053      0.032     0.103      o.o6h    0.96       0.010     0.096     0.006     0.11,6    0.066      0.156     0.091     0.187    U0112        0.131     0.079     0.131    0.079      0.198     0.119            60
C-2n.a Faoliti-o         0.073      0.001     0.060     0.036       -         -       0.0.4      0.006     0.026      0.016     0.103     0.062     0.011     0.031     o.06o     0.01      0.062      0.037     0.020     0.073       0.060     0.001     0.000    0.061      0.096     0.019            60
Stadet Hoet6lo           0.031      0.019    01002      0.031       -                  -           -        -          -                    -       0.707     0.016     0.030     0.710     0.073      O.014     o.15o      0.091      0.079     0.017     0.106    0.063      0.201     0.122            60
Stall Honoalo            1.031      0.019       -                   -                                                      --                       0.032     0.019     0.072     0.01i3      -          -       0.119     o.B         0.063     0.038     0.003    0.032      0.353     0.212            60
Sbatl    0.01lb     0.129    0.0         .2      00*003                .3         0$                                         2oooo  .9  .0  0.706  1.124  0.328    0.197     0.991     0.175     0.600      0.365      0.356     0.215      0.375    0.225    0.95i      017
016  eelp.,             0.010      0.029    0.01,0    0.021      0.012      0.067    0.030       0.008     0.011      O.oo      0.032     0.019     0.010     0.035     0.063     0.038     0.070      0.04.2    0.060     ]1           .1        .3        .06     115       020       010               60
P-f ...flh i OncF..      0.021      0.016    0.020     0.010     0.001      0.001    0.010       0.000     0.012      0.009     0.019     0.0014    0.021     0.016     0.031     0.023      2.029     0.022     0.0005      o         0.033     0.025    0.031    0.0,6    0.M6         o.o69            7
SuO-Total        .11.6       0.,0; .   C.060     0.039   .9017.    0.00        0.040     0.026   0.0-26        0.017      0.015     0.033    0.079      0.001    0.091      0.061      0.099     0.61      0.135     3~i         0.091     0.o60     0.092    0.061      0.292    0.099
EQUIPMENT
Oorolt.o                 0.020      0.017    0.026      0.016   0.001       0.002    0.017       0.010     0.010      D."0      0.012     0.067     0.021     0.013     0.030     01.010    0.011,    0.000      0.030     3.019       0.021     0.013     0.021   0.013    0.070       0.011            60
000p.t 90000                               ~ 0"         008       '~           3     O-7        005         -3         .3       0.017     000 0^   .717       0.015     0.010     0.01,5    0.039      0.03      001 .. I     ,-      0.017      0.015     0.017    0.045      00       0.070            91
lob-Total         0.075      0.067     0.066      0.011    0.014      0.010    0.061      0.010     0.010      0.039      0.069     0.012     0.018     0.000     0.077     0.01,3    -0.03      0.01      o.o7      s.o63       0.6        .056     0.6      0.010     0.0151    0.122
OONTOOGENCOS - 10%  .011     0.03      0.000      0.033    0.010      0.102i   0.00       0.021     0.031      0.021      0.016     0.031     0.053     0.035    0.075      0.01,     0.017      0.0173    003       o.lm-       0.07      0.010     0.000    0.052    0.210      0.132
_________                                                                                                                                                I                                                  -0-0----                 0.690    0.30,      0.610    0.3~96    1.0
TOTALS     0.112     ~~~~0.272    0.381  .61       0135        0.097 - 5231   -  .060    G 0223    -   .170                           - 16(6ll .i  Oa2OO J,  0.5014    0.369    0.5100  -  .327    0.91,3    ____-___  -.-



MALAWI: SECONDARY TECHNICAL SCHOOLS AND NATIONAL PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1966               1967                1968                1969                1970
J F MAMJJA S ON D JFMAM J J ASION D_J FMAIMIJ|JJA|S|O|ND JF|M|A|M|J|J     ASON DJ FM|A   J J|A|SOIND
PR EPARATIO N
SELECTION OF ARCHITECTS                                             L
ACQUISITION OF LAND
DESIGN
PRELIMINARY                                 S Bll 121 _ _                            I
FINAL
TENDER
CONSTRUCTION
SOCHE SECONDARY SCHOOL, BLANTYRE
MALOSA SECONDARY SCHOOL, MALOSA
BLANTYRE SECONDARY SCHOOL, BLANTYRE
H. HENDERSON INSTITUTE DAY SECONDARY SCHOOL, BLANTYRE
DEDZA SECONDARY SCHOOL, DEDZA
CHiCHIRI DAY SECONDARY SCHOOL, BLANTYRE/ LIMBE
ZOMBA SECONDARY SCHOOL, ZOMBA
LILONGWE SECONDARY SCHOOL, LILONGWE
MZUZU SECONDARY SCHOOL, MZUZU
MZIMBA SECONDARY SCHOOL, MZIMBA                                                                                                                      ll |
CHOLO SECONDARY SCHOOL., CHOLO
MLANJE SECONDARY SCHOOL, MLANJE                                                                   |
X
NATIONAL PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE, LILONGWE                                                                                                               Z
PROPOSED BY MINISTRY OF WORKS AND SUPPLIES                     RECOMMENDED BY APPRAISAL MISSION                       (R)IBRD-3248  N
0



GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
TENTATIVE SCHEDULE OF DISBURSENEENTS
F.E.
Component          Anticirated Lisbursements
Year                          Total Cost             $                  $_       % cf Credit1
1967   Professional fees         290,000           218,000             260,000          4
Yearly Total
1968   Construction            1,500,000           9COJCOO           1,400,000         22
Professional fees          50,000            38,000
Yearly Total       1,550,000          938,000
1969   Construction            3,000,000         1,800,000           3,340,000         53
Professional fees          50,000            38,000
Equipment & furniture     660,000           552,000
Yearly Total       3,710,000        2,390,000
1970   Construction            1,000,000           600,000           1,300,000         21
Professional fees          50,000            38,000
Equipment & furniture     4oo,ooo           335,000
1,450,000          973,000
GRAND TOTAL           6,300,000        100



-'           -       -i -.s                                        
Port 1\
EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                           {uns-
Main Roads                                                     &           <½               rH
-Other Roads                                               tpot B
RaiUways                                        I                       ,                      D
i,/    -                                      1yI }X h
AFRICA                                4
K                                                                   I,.        t                
/>                                           F..-   Jrr1    W.                                        (                         I
d                                 1%~~~~~~~N
A 5                                                                          oj EKrsungys  ]  > to KoI t   >
~-' MALAWI                       >             '2,                    ,''  '   i
>~~ ~  ~ _V                                                   - ;  f S II  
ILC
oDAK' vj              8Z A' =S,1- \
LOCATION OF PROJECT SCHOOLS
I  SOCHE SECONDARY SCHOOL, BLANTYRE
2  MALOSA SECONDARY SCHOOL, MALOSA
BLANTYRE SECONDARY SCHOOL, BLANTYRE
H. HENDERSONI INSTITUTE DAY SECONDARY SCHOOL, BLANTYRE
V DEDZA SECONDARY SCHOOL, DEOZA                                                                          OB.Op_
G  CHICHIRI DAY SECONDARY SCHOOL, BLANTYRE/LIMBE
I  ZOMBA SECONCARY SCHOOL, ZM0A;
8  LILONGWE SECONDARY SCHOOL, LILONSWE                                                           ,                      , IMBE
9  MZUZU SECONDARY SCHOOL, MZUZU                                                                     Ch0k         C
10  MZIMBA SECONDARY SCHOOL, MZIMBA                                                               ,       5
11  CHOLO SECONDARY SCHOOL, CHOLO
12  MLANJE SECONDARY SCHOOL, MLANUE                                             20        *0       S0                      h
32  NATIONAL PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING COLLE6E, LILONGWE
O020   50   6o   80   '00                            I
OCTOBER 1966                                                                                                                                          ]BRD 1740R2



