RESTRICTED
Report No. P-537
FILE COPY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
April 19, 1967



TNTRNATIONAL DEVELOPRENT ASSOC-TATIN
RqEPORT AND RECOKHEYDATION OF THE PRESIDEMT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit herewith the following report and recommendation on a
proposed development credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to $6.3 million to the Republic of Malawi to help finance construction and
equipment for education.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Malawi Government first requested financial assistance from
the International Development Association for the development of education
in early 1965. This was followed by a UNESCO project preparation mission
in October 1965 under the Bank-UNESCO Cooperative Agreement. A formal
application was received by the Association in January 1966 and an appraisal
mission went to Malawi in March 1966. During the course of this appraisal,
the initial proposals were modified in view of financial constraints and
the shortage of teachers.
3.        Formal negotiations took place in Malawi in early December 1966.
The Malawi delegation was led by 11r. R.JeC. Wait, Secretary to the Treasury,
and included the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, the Solicitor
General, the Commissioner for Works and Supplies and other representatives
from the Milinistries of Education, Works and Supplies, Development and
Planning, and Finance.
4.        There has been only one previous Bank or IDA lending operation
in Malawi. This was an IDA project preparation credit (No. S-2-MAI)
made to the Republic of Malawi in October 1966 for $490,000 to finance
a highway engineering project. At March 31, 1967, $413,000 of this credit
remained undisbursed. Nalawi, formerly Nyasaland and a territory of the
Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland (1953-63), did not benefit from any
of the Bank loans to the Federation.
5.        The Association is considering two further projects in Malawi.
One proposed credit of about $10 million would be for the construction
of the highways now being engineered under project preparation credit
No. S-2-MAI. Funds have been earmarked from existing IDA resources to
cover this credit.  The other proposed credit, which is at an earlier stage
of consideration, would finance part of a project for agricultural
reorganization and development.
6.        There have been no IFC investments in Malawi.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
7.        The main characteristics of the proposed credit are as follows:



Borrower:                  The Republic of Malawi
Amount:                   $6.3 million in various currencies.
Purpose:                  To assist in financing the construction.
and equipment of (i) a primary teacher
training college; (ii) additions to twelve
secondary schools which would allow ten of
the schools to accommodate 1,860 additional
pupils and twelve schools to provide
in.struction. in technical subjects.
Amortization:              50 years including 10 years period of
grace, in, semi-annual installments
beginning April 1, 1977 and ending
October 1, 2016.
Service Charge:            3/4 of 1 percent per an.num.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of an Education Project
in Malawi" (TO-556b, dated April 17, 1967) on the proposed project is
attached.
9.        The Malawi educational system is similar to that of Britain in.
organizational structure and in the content of its courses, except that
the great majority of schools is operated by voluntary agencies. In 1965,
340,O00, or nearly half the corresponding age group, were enrolled in
primary schools. Present policy is not to in.crease this proportion. On
the other hand there were only 8,020 pupils enrolled in. secondary schools
in the same year. Enrollment in Forms 1 to 4 (secondary) is less than
1-1/2 percent of the eligible age group. The present emphasis on success
in academic subjects is to be charnged through the introduction. of technical
subjects in selected secondary schools, making the system more appropriate
to the type of employment now available in Malawi.
10.       Secondary school enrollment is planned to increase to 13,580
by 1970, an increase of 70 percent over present enrollment. This would
only accommodate 3 percent of the age group and 10 percent of primary
school leavers.  The main constraint on expansion, however, is the number
of qualified teachers.
11.       The Government has established a new administrative unit, within
the Ministry of WDrks and Supplies, which will be responsible for the
implementatio.n of the project and the necessary coordination. with other
agencies. It is headed by a Project Coordinator, acceptable to the
Association, and its staff includes an Accountant and an Equipment Specialist.
The Government has selected two firms of architects, acceptable to the
Association, to undertake the necessary architectural and engineering
services.



- 3 -
12.       The prcjGct corisists of the construction and equipmen.t of a new
national primary teacher training college and the construction and equipment
of new educational facilities, boarding and staff accommodation in twelve
secondary schools; site improvements, the addition of administrative and
service facilities and building renovations of these schools; and the pro-
vision. of 10 teacher fellowships. Work is expected to be completed by the
end of 1970.
13.       The expansion of these two sectors of education in Malawi is
essential for the long-term growth of the system and for future manpower
requirements in the economy as a whole. The project will also affect the
quality of education. The proposed teacher training college is a prototype
of the larger, modern institutions necessary to improve teacher training
standards, and to provide more and better qualified teachers in the primary
school system.  The introduction of a technical curriculun in selected
secondary schools will mean secondary school graduates better suited for
jobs requiring technical skills.
14G       The new teacher training college will have an ultimate enrollment
of 540, increasing the 1965 level of enrollmen.t in existing colleges by
about 40 percent: its annual output will be 240, compared with 495 from
existing colleges in 1966.
15.       The addition of a technical curriculum will provide for a four-
year course for full-time technical students, and instruction in technical
subjects for first year students in academic courses.  More than 5°000
pupils will be affected and the capacity of ten.of the schools will be
increased by 1,860 places.
16.       The estimated total cost of the project, including a contingency
allowance, is equivalent to $7.0 million.  The foreign.exchange coinponent
is estimated at $h45 million.  The proposed credit of $6.3 million.equiva-
lent would cover 90 percent of the total cost:   the balance would be met
by the Government. In view of Malawi's extreme poverty, its virtually
complete dependence upon external resources to finance development, and
the comrnendable effort the Government is making in managing its resources,
I believe that IDA would be justified in financing this high proportion
of the total cost, wghich is, of course, much in.excess of the foreign
exchange component.
17.       Cf the total cost, approximately 42 percent is for construction
of academic buildings and workshops, 12 percent for student hostels, 12
percent for staff housing, 13 percent for site development, 6 percent for
professional fees and 15 percent for furniture and equipment,   International
competitive bidding procedures will be followed in. awarding civil works
contracts and procuring furniture and equipment. Staff housing is a necessary
component of the project since houses are generally not available where the
schools have to be located, and special provision has to be made, more
particularly as many of the teachers are recruited from abroad.
18.       Malawils annual recurrent expenditures on education have averaged
£2.0 million in recent years, equivalent to 14 percent of total recurrent
expenditures, which is a relatively low proportion in comparison with many



-4 -
other developing countries. The realization of the project would lead to
an increase in these expenditures of about £220,000 per year by 1970, or
about 7 percent of estimated recurrent expenditure on.education in that year.
Provided that United Kingdom Governmen.t budgetary support, which at present
covers about one-third of all Halawils recurrent expenditure, is not cut back
too sharply in, the next few years, we expect the Government to be able to
meet this increasing requirement.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRU1ENTS AND AUTHORITY
19.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Association
and the Republic of Malawi and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
20.       The proposed Development Credit Agreement is in the form generally
used for education projects.  It includes provisions concerning expert
assistance to carry out the project and an undertaking to provide an adequate
number of qualified teachers in. the project schools. In order to insure
that land and buildings will be available for the purposes of the project
(Section 4.02), the Government has entered into agreements with various
church groups who own some of the schools to be improved and expanded under
the proposed credit.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
21.       A report entitled "The Economy of IMalawi" (AF-51a) was distributed
on September 15, 1966 (R66-128). Recent developments do not require any
changes in the main.conclusions of that report.
22.       With a population of nearly h million and an, estimated gross
domestic product of £58.0 million in 1965, Malawits per capita income
of about $40 is one of the lowest in the world. The economy has a large
subsistence sector, which accounts for 40 percent of GDP and consumes
about 70 percent of agricultural production.   It has been heavily dependent
on capital transfers, both from the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland,
of which it was a part until 1964, and from the United Kingdom.   In recent
years total budgetary support and capital aid from abroad has averaged
£8 million, or 14 percent of GDP.
23.       Nevertheless, over the past decade, the economy has had an
impressive growth record. In the period 1954-62, real output of the
monetary sectors increased by around 5.5 percen.t annually mainly because
of rapid expansion in smallholder production of tobacco, groundnuts and
cotton.for export. Estate production of tea also grew steadily in this
period. The years 1963 and 1964 wit.nessed a temporary stagnation as a
result of poor growing weather for tea and of uncertainties associated
with the transition to independence.   But in both 1965 and 1966, the growth
rate in real output rose to 10 percent annually, partly as the result of
improved weather, but mainly because the economy responded vigorously to
expanded public development efforts and to a new sense of confidence in
the private sector.



- 5 -
24.       Gi-veIi coxtinued sound management of the public development
program and continued confidence in the private sector, the prospects are
good that Malawi can continue to expand output of the monetary sectors
by around 7 or 8 percent annually, and its export earnings at about the
same rate. With this sort of growth it should be possible for the Govern-
ment to achieve a steady increase in its current revenue and a steady
reduction in its current deficit. Indeed, this process has already started.
Revenues increased from 13 percent of GNP in 1963 to over 16 percent in.
1966, and the deficit was reduced from £5.5 million in 1965 to £4.9 million
in 1966, and a further reduction to £4.6 million is projected for 1967.
However, to support an adequate rate of economic growth, there will be a
need for continued expansion of current expenditures particularly on
economic services and secondary education.  Malawi's present level of
current expenditures is not high; indeed, on a per capita basis, only
two countries in Africa have a lower level.
25.       At the same time, a fairly high level of investment must be
maintained for the economy to continue growing. The Central Government
investment program will reach about £7 million in 1967, or around 10
percent of GNP, and will probably average around £8 million during the
period 1968-70. This amount is considered feasible and desirable. Only
very limited possibilities exist for domestic borrowing, so that around
85 percent of Government investment will have to be financed externally.
However, given the prospect that the country will continue to be dependent
on external budget support for some time, its scope for new borrowing on
conventional terms must be regarded as very limited.  Existing external
debt service, mainly from pre-independence commitments, is already fairly
high for a country of Malawi's income level, accounting for 17 percent
of current revenues and 11 percent of exports in 1966.   Prudence would
therefore suggest that Malawi seek the great bulk of its public capital
inflow on better than conventional terms. Given the country's great
poverty and good record of economic performance, I believe that IDA
financing for Malawi is fully justified.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
26.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
27.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
Resolution, No.
Approval of a Development Credit to the Republic of Malawi
(Educatio.n. Project) in an amount equivalent to US$6,300000.



-6-
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit
to the Republic of Malawi in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to six million three hundred thousand United States
dollars (US$6,300,000) to mature on and prior to October 1,
2016, to bear a service charge at the rate of three-fourths
of one oercent (3/4 of l1o) per annum, and to be upon.such
other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the
form of the Development Credit Agreement (Educatio.n Project)
between the Republic of Malawi and the Association, which has
bee.n presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
Preside.nt
Attachment
Washington, D. C.
April 19, 1967



