R ESTR ICTED
Report No. TO-431b
ECONQ               M    I F
T'-,;s report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK EOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SOMALIA
December 10, 1964
,2partrnent of Technical Operatc,a;s



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Somali Shilling (S. sh. ) = U.S. $0. 14
1 U.S. Dollar            = S. Sh. 7. 14
Fiscal Year
July 1   -   June 30



S O M A L I A
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
Tt.BLE OF CCNiTENTS
SU iIIARY                               Page
I,   INTRODUCTION                              1
IIe   BACKO.OUND                                2
A. L3nd and People                        2
B. Transportation                         3
C. Development Plan                       4
III,   THE HTGSHWAY SYSTEM                       5
A.  Present Extent and Condition          5
B. The Public Works Department
and Highway Section        6
C.  The Vehicle Fleet                     8
IV,   THO PROJECT                              10
A.  General Descriotion                  10
Road Construction               10
Technical Assistance &
Maintenance                11
B. Summary of Costs and Financing        14
V.   ECONQiEC JUSTIFICATION CF
ROAD CONSTRUC"IION'I                   16
A.  Zone of Influence                    16
B. Factors Affecting Agricultural
Grorth       16
C.  Economic Benefits                    18
VI.   COINCLIJSIO IS AND RECON EMDATIONS       19
TABLES.: 1. Public Works and Highway Maintenance
Expenditures 1961-1964
?2. Organization of Public Works Department
3. Gasoline Consumption
h' 'Anr.. al Revenues from Road-User Taxes
5. Estimates of Project Cost
6, Design Standards
MAP






SO3 ALTIA
APPRAISAL OF A HI-rC.AY PROJECT
SUMRY
The Assoc4ation has received a request from the Government of Somalia
o assist in financing a hiighlway project comprising:-
a) the construction of a main road 200 km. long from Afgoi
to Baidoa with a 20 km. feeder road to Uanle Uen, at a
total estimated cost of US$8.6 mill'ioIn equivalent, which
includes an amount of Us$0.6 million fcr final engineer-
ing and supe,-vision of construction;
b) the -rchase of highway maintenance and other equipment
and the provision of an equipped office building for the
Highway Section, at an estimated total cost of IUS$2.75
million equivalent;
c) a program of technical assistance involving the organiza-
tion and management of the Highway Section for four to five
years, the coordination of transport investment, the
feasibility studies of new roads, and the techn4cal train-
ing of Somalis, estimated to cost a total of US.2.85 million
equivalent.
ii.       The Government can contribute little towards the total project costs
of US$14.2 million equivalent, but has been asked to meet certain local costs
totalling about US$007 million equivalent and to make adequate financial
provision for futuire road maintenance. The Government contribution would aiounlt
to about 5 per cent of the total project cost while the balance of 95 per cent
*rould be financed jointly by the Assoclation, the European Development Fund (FED)
of the European Economic Community (EEC), and the United NationO   Special
Fund (U31SF).
iii.      This would be the first Bank/IDA operation in Somalia.   A detailed
financing plan has been agreed in principle by the participating agencies.
The plan provides for an IDA credit of US$6.2 million equivalent which would
be applied towards the cost of road construction. The FED contribution would
be a grant of US$5015 million equivalent to finance the balance of the road
construction and the related engineering services, the purchase of highway
maLntenance and other equipment, and the office building. UNSF would provide
US$2,15 million equivalent in thie form of a grant to meet the foreign costs
of the technical assistance program. The IDa credit would not be effective
until the conclusion of firm financing agreernents between the Government and
the other participants.
iv.       1load construction would be executed on the basis of international
competitive bidding, while tne higiway maintenance and office equipment which
is to be financed by FED grant would be procured from member countries of the
EEC.



-ii-
v0        Somalia has a population of some 2> million, 70 per cent of which is
nomadic. The raising of livestock md agricultnre are the principal occupa-
tions of the people, the majority of whom live at barely subsistence level;
annual per capita income is about US$4o-45.
vi.       The road netwJork of Somalia is in its very early stages of deve-
lopment, being about the lowest in density among East African countries.
The Public Works Department of the Government contains virtually no highway
organization. There are no railroads and no usable inland waterways.
vii.      T"he project road from Afgoi to Baidoa passes through the most
important dry land fanaing areas of the country, producing over half the
total sorghum wheat (durra) prodiction of the 6 southern regLons of the
couiLtry. Due to a number of inter-related factors including poor transpor-
tation facilities, agricultural production within the zone of influence has
been stagnating over the past few years. With increasing population, the
area could possibly revert from being arain surplus noo to becomin- grain
deficit in the future unless some stimulus to production is provided.
viii.     The present road is little more than a track, in bad condition and
impassable to traffic during and after the two annual rainy seasons. The new
road would be 25 km. shorter, open all the year round, and would reduce vehicle
operating costs per km. by over hO0%; it would take about 3l-- years to blild.
The feeder road included in the project would link the village of Uanle Uen,
which lies on the present road and is of importance as a trading center for
nomads, with the new main road alignment.
ix.       The economic benefits resulting from the new road construction have
been based upon conservative forecasts; those benefits which are most easily
quantifiable represent a return of about 7-8 per cent on investment o-ver
the road's useful life. This return is not high, but taken together with
the expected stimulus to agricultural production and with other more
intangible social and administrative benefits, it is considered to provide
an adequate justification in a country like Somalia,
x,        The technical assistance program is an integral part of the proposed
project; its objectives are (a) to build an efficient higlhway organization,
staffed ultimately by trained Somalis, with special emphasis on highwray main-
tenance, and (b) to assist the Government in its future planning and coordina-
tion of transportation investment.
xi.       The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.2 million equiva-
lent, which would not become effective until firm financing arrangements had
been concluded with the other participants.



SOi iALIA
APPR.AIS.2L OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
I, INTRODUCTION
1.        The Association has received a request from the Government of
Somalia to assist, in financing the construction of a road 200 km. lon- from
Afgoi to Baidoa with a 20 km. feeder road to Uanle Uen, including design
and supervision of construction by consulting engineers.
2.        The appraisal mission has recommended, and the Government has agreed,
that the project should also include:-.
i) a program of technical assistance including the organiza-
tion and management of a Highway Section in the Department of
Public lorks with emphasis on road maintenance, a study to
coordinate short-term transportation investment, engineering
feasibility studies of two high priority roads, and the techni-
cal training abroad of Somalis for future service in the Highway
Section; and
ii) the purchase of road maintenance and shop equipment, and
the provision of Highway Section offices.
3.        This would be the first Bank or IDA operation in Somalia.   A Bank/
IDA reconnaissance mission first visited Somalia in July/August, 1963, to
study the general prospects for Bank/IDA investment and to identify possible
suitable projects; the project road was considered to be of high economic
priority. A second Bank mission visited Somalia in January, 1964, and con-
firmed the previous mission's findings, although noting that the quaitifiable
benefits from the project road were not high. The second mission also in-
vestigated areas in which technical assistance might be useful to the Govern-
ment, and, to assist in future programming, selected two other roads of
apparent high priority for engineering feasibility studies by consulting
engineers. The Association, the European Development Fund (FED), and the
United Nations Special Fund (UNSF) discussed the possibilities of jointly
financing the project, and in October 1964, a third mission, which included
representatives of all three participants, checked cost estimates and dis-
cussed all aspects of,the project with officials of the Government. Details
of the project were further confirmed in November 1964, during credit
negotiations in Brussels.
4.        This appraisal report is based upon the findings of the three
missions, a study of various reports on the Somali economy, and an engineer-
ing-feasibility study of the Afgoi-Baidoa road by an Italian consulting
engineering firm. Valuable assistance was rendered the second and third
missions by agricultural experts engaged in a U1TSF land and water resources
study in the general area of the project road.



II. PBWCKrf`OTITD
A.. Iand and People
5.        The Somali Republic (see Map) covers an area of aDproximately
640o00o sq. im. in the Horn of Africa (aprroxiiately the size of Burma or
Spain and Portugal combined) running from 20 lat.itu.de south to 120 latitude
north, coaifined to the east by the Indian Oc6an  and to the west and south-
west by Ethiopia and Kenya. Almost 40/h of the total land area is unusable,
about half is generally suitable for raising livestock, ard only some 12%
(or 80,000 sq. Ica) is arable.
6.        Terrain and climate present a gradual progression from the high-
Lands and nea.r desert of the iiort-Lern couitry to the com7aratively arable
soils, gently sloping pla ns and more temperate climate in the south0  The
country's location on the Equator and the monsoon winds prevailing over
most of the year result in a climate of high mean temperatures, intense
solar radiation, rapid evaporation, and two rainy seasons with an annual
rain-fall frona 600 mm. to less than 100 mm. according to the region, with
w'de and irregular seasonal and local variations. Groumd water supplies
are moderate and often brackish, soils are subject to serious erosion from
wind and water, and soil fertility is generally low except for land between
the lower reaches of the Giuba and Scebeli rivers.
7^.       A brief review of the economy of Somalia follows; for greater
detail the reader is referred to Bankr Report Mo. AS-19a, dated 'lay 28,
1964. The basic geology of the country has offered little promise so far
Of abundant ground-water or of mineral wealth.  Iron ore deposits west and
south of Baidoa are under investigation and the exoloitation of a large
deposit of gypsum anhydrite in northern Sormalia near the port of Berbera is
under consideration. Oil prospecting has been in progress for over 10 years
but no comnercially exploitable deposits have been found as yet.
8.        The country is sparsely populated; a total of approximately 21
million Somalis is unevenly distributed with the highest density around
the capital, Mogadiscio, and the inter-river area. Although no accurate
population census has been made, a figure of 1.5% net annual growth of
population is generally considered reliable. The poDulation, unlilce that
in many other countries of Africa, is largely homogenous in race, culture,
language and religion.
9.        Animal husbandry is the principal occupation of an es-timated
70%, of the total populatiion wiho are nomadic, covering large expanses of
territory, mainly in the nortnern re,-ion, in search of pasturage and water
for their livestock.  The remaining 30a/ are engaged primarily in agricul-
ture, mixed farming, and to a more limited extent in administration, small
industries and commerce. The available labor force for large construction
works, such as the project road, is limited.



lOo       Town population, which is rising rapidly, totals perhaps 250,000
half of which is in the capital city. Education in the country is in the
early stages of development.  Schools are few, and 95% of the People are
illiterate.  The average per capita income is about U,140-45 equivalent.
11.       The combination of unfavorable topography and climate has con-
centrated population and economic activities in and around Hiogadiscio in
the center, in the Hargheisa-Burao-3erbera triangle in the north, and in
the Giuba Valley around Chisimaio in the south. These three almost inde-
pendent economic coiinmulities and their hinterlands are widely separated
iath little need for surface communication between them at this stage in
the country's development, There is a need,however, for good transportation
facilities within the three areas.
B. Transportation
General
12.       Hlost of the people of Somalia still live in an initial stage of
primitive transport which traditionally remains the camel, donkey and man.
Roads are few and poor; air transport ns in its infancy; there are no
railroads; and the country is singularly lacking in good natural ports.
During the two seasons of rainfall each year, many rural areas, villages
and towns may be completely isolated due to impassable roads. In the long
dry periods, earth and gravel roads become so corrugated and dusty that
normal transport is severely hampered.
Existing Transport Facilities
Roads
13.       Soil conditions and periodic heavy rains make road facilities
difficult to build and maintain in Somalia.  The present road system, which
is described in greater detail in section IIIA., totals about 12,000 km.,
half this length consisting of unmaintained earth tracks. HIotor vehicles
totalled about 5,5oo-6,ooo in 1963, about L0%0 of which were trucks.
Air Transport
1h0       Three international airline companies operate scheduled flights
to Somalia (Alitalia, Aden Airways and United Arab Airlines); two small
foreign companies operate charter fliglts. An agreement was signed recent-
ly, between the Government, Alitalia and the Italian Government, creating
the Somali Airlines Co;mpany which has now started small-scale domestic
operations using three reconditioned DC3 aircraft. All airports and navi-
Zational facilities, except for the airport of Hargheisa, are maintained
and operated by the military forces.  Only the airports near Berbera and
Hargheisa (suitable for DC3 operation) and the airport near Mogadiscio,
(suitable for DC7 operation) have all-weather runwaysr but none have night



landing fccilities,, Some 20 airstrips are scattered throughout the country,
but nonc; of them are equiniped with navigaLional aids and all are inoperable
during rainy weather. The number of passengers transported by air service
on internal air routes is small and tlhe limited goods traffic is almost ex-
clusively postal.
Cca2tal ad -O-erseas Shipping
15.       Of the four ports and 18 minor landing facilities which lie along
the 1,800 Ian. coastline of Soralia, none can presently rece-ve ocean-going
vessels along quays. Ships must anchor in the open seas, and all loading
and unloading is done by lighterage.   The four major ports - Mogadiscio,
viIerca, Chisimaio, and Berbera - collectively handled about 350,000.tons of
cargo in 1963, or 90% of the total import-export traffic.   Particularly
large have been the increases in cargo handled by iMogadiscio and the export
of livestock through Berbera, some 10 and 20 respectively per year recently.
Chisimaio and kIerca handle mainly bananas.
16.       Except for native dhows and a smaall motorship, Somnalia does not
have a merchant fleet as such. At the present time, the country is served
by tramps, and on a regular schedule by three Italian Ehipping lines, one
Dutch and one British East African line.
Inland Waterways
17.       The Giuba River in the southern region of Somalia flowJs the year
round and offers some possibilities for the development of barge traffic on
a small scale. Prospects for the economic transport of large quantities
of freight on the river seem remote, however, inasmuch as a continuously
dredged channel would have to be maintained over a substantial length of
the river, the course of the river is extremely tortuous, and no port faci-
lities exist at its mouth (Chisimaio port is located 20 km. south of the
mouth of the Giuba River).
Animal Transport
18.       More than half of all trade in Somalia still movres on the backs
of camels, donkeys and men. TTsually, the camel carries about 100 lcg. of
assorted baggage about '30 km. per day. Trained burden camels are absolutely
essential for transDorting the huts and baggage of the nomads as they move
their sheep and goats to new pastures, and for fetching water from distant
wells. A nomad family may own 10-20 camels on average. The donkey is a
beast of burden used in townships and small permanent settlements and in
tlhe difficult hill country inaccessible to loaded camels.
C. Development Plan
19.       A five-year develoxment plan was adopted in 1963 by the Somali
Government, New investment in productive sectors as well as for basic
economic and social services is envisaged at S. sh. 1,1O00 million (US$200
million) for the period 1963-1967, an annual average of some US$h0 million



- 5 -
equivalent. Foreign aid is expected to finance the entire development pro-
gram and Somalia has already secured commitments from abroad for financing
over half the planned investment, maiily from the USSR, USA, anc gEC coun-
tries.  The following table gives the investment targets by main sectors:-
Millions        %
ofTs. sh.   of Total
Transport                                       )dO           30
Agriculture and Livestock                        353          25
Agricultural Orocessing and Industry             200         1l
Health and Education                             122           9
Housingj Urban Development and Water Supply      115           8
Commerce and Banking                              75           5
Surveys and Studies                               46           3
Telecommunications and Power                      41           3
Other                                             38           3
1400         100
20.       The construction or improvement of about 2,700 km. of road is
proi ided for in the five-year plan, including the construction of the
project road from .h.fgoi to Baidoa. The plan also proposer a country-wide
transportation study to establish a long-term policy for the development
cf the country's overall transportation system.
21.       Improvement of the airports at HIogadiscio and Hargheisa is
included in the plan and work is already under vay. Six regional airports
will also be built at Chisimaio, Baidoa, 3elet Ueny Galcaio, Bosaso and
Burao at an estitated cost of US`7 million equivalent.   The plan provides
also for a substantial improvement of the three seaports at ?Togadiscio,
Chisimaio and Berbera at an estimated cost of about US$24 million equivalent;
work is already under way at Chisimaio, and is expected to commence shortly
at Berbera.
22.       Among the more important industrial projects to be established
under the Government's development proc-ram are a new sugar mill at Giohar,
a meat caninery at Chisimaio, a fish cannery at Las Khoreh, a milk process-
ing, plt at iMogadiscio, and a cotton textile factory near Mogadiscio, with
,ri annual capacity of 8 million yards of grey, bleached and dyed cloth.
k-ese five projects are expected to be in operation by 1966.
III. THE HIGHIWA!Y SYSTEM
;. Present 7xtent and Condition
23.       The ropK retwork of Somalia is in its very early stages of
v-:l'rprent, t.e average density per sq. km. being about the lowest among
East, A,fican countries. There are about 3000 km. of low standard main
roads (of which only 600 km. are asphalt-paved), a further 3000 km. of



6-
poor ;-avel and earLh seconda7,r, roads, and about 6000 km. of immaintained
.n~h tracks.   The riding qualities of all classes of road and track are
-. he majority being imnassable during rainstorms. Most of the paved
road- serve the larger towns such as 11ogadiscio and Hargheisa.
Tio new asphal Q-r-aved roads are currently under construction.
-.e 63 'ck. long f-om I fgoi to Scialambot, is being financed with a grant
- .'c the Furope;r. EconoTnic CoiTiunity (EEC), and is being built by an
-!-ian contractor.   It will cost about S. sh. 25 million (NS$3.5 mil.lion)
-:;er cc7pleted tc _.ids the end of thlis year, The relatively high cost for
-:c ci-,ss of road and type of terrain (US$52,000 per km.) results partly
from. -,.e need to adopt a line-stabilized-soil. method of construction because
of the non-availability of conventional road-stone material. The cost also
includes research expenditure into different types of surfacing and various
treatments of shoulders anid side-s'Lopes.
250       The second new road is in the south, running 120 km. from the
port of Chisimaio to Gelib, and is being finainced with a 3%, 20-year,
German credit of DM 18.5 million and a S. sh. 1 million contribution from
the Banana Infrastructure Fund 1/ The road is being built by a German
contractor and should be completed by the end of 1965. Final costs are
likely to be about DM 20.5 million (US$5rl million) or US$0R.000 o er km.
26.      Miaintenance of the road system is bad due to lack of Government
organization, poor management and inadequate equipment.  A few enterprising
private individuals have taken advantage of the situation and make a daily
living by maintaining bad stretches of road, relying upon the benevolence
of passing truck drivers for remuneration.
D. The Public Works Department and Highway Section
27.       The Public Works Department (R[JD), which is the largest depart-
ment in the Miistry of Public WTorks, Conmmunications and Civil Aviation,
is responsible for the construction and maintenance of Dublic buildirgs,
water sunply and electric power, as well as public roads, Building acti-
vities have increased rapidly in recent years and now absorb by far the
bulk of the Department's technical resources. The Department has a total
complement of about 50-60 clerical and 10 higher technical staff, only two
of whom are graduated university engineers.  Tw'o lower technical grade
European surveyor-engineers provide some assistance on highways.
28.       Excluding foreign aid, the past level of annual expenditures
on public works (mostly on administration and maintenance activities) has
been around S. sh. 27 million (US$4 million equivalent), less than 10% of
this being spent on highways, mainly for maintenance (see Table 1).
2/ A' fund, made up mainly of contributions frqm banana growers used to
-   finance development works (including roads) which are intended to
improve banana production.



- 7 -
29.       Foreign aid projects are accounted separately in a special capi-
tal budget.  As mentioned above, two new roads are currently under con-
struction costing a total of around S. sh. 61 million (US$8.6 million),
and involving an annual expenditure of roughly S. sh. 20 million (US$3
million). Their design, construction and supervision is being carried out
by foreign firms, and causes little drain on the technical resources of RED.
30.       On the otlher hand, twelve major building projects with a total
estimated cost of around S. sh. 200 million (US$28 million) including
machinery and equipment are currently under construction or soon to be
started as part of the Soviet-aid program. The Soviet s-istem involves
contracting the Government, through the Public Works DejArtment, to execute
the projects by force account. Advice is given by a few Soviet experts,
and the PRJD is paid the cost of labor, materials, transport and overheads
with local funds generated by the sale in Somalia of Soviet products such
as cement, wheat, flour, steel, etc. Participation by PWD in the various
projects averages about 2c; financially; in fiscal 1963, force account work
to an estimated amount of S. sh. 1h-15 million (US$2 million) will be
executed. This system of project execution is absorbing most of the limited
technical resources of the AHD.
31.       The HighwTay Section of the Public Works Department exists in name
only for all practical Purposes; there is virtually no headquarter organiza-
tion in Mogadiscio and only a few uncoordinated, poorly-equipped, inadequately
staffed field offices, the latter forming part of the regional public works
offices. The public works offices in the northern regions appear somewhat
better organized and equipped than those in the central and southern regions.
Highway activities are confined to elementary maintenance or construction of
short access roads to foreign aid projects.
32.       Central office accommodation in Iiogadiscio is cramped, the
Ministry of Public Works sharing a small ancient building with two other
Ministries. Any scheme to irprove the highway organization in Somalia
should essentially include the construction and equipping of modern cen-
tral highway offices with proper facilities for designing, drawing, account-
ing and laboratory testing. Some improvement in regional field offices,
shops and warehouses is also desirable, barticularly in the south.
33.       Staffing a Highway Section would be a major problem due to:-
(i) the present gross shortage of trained Somali technical
personnel; and
(ii) the limited availability of people having a minimum
basic education for further training.
3h.       Educational facilities are being expanded with the assistance
of UNESCO under the Government's development program. Three new technical
schools, sponsored by the USMR, Germany, and Czechoslovakia, are scheduled
to be operational this year or early next year, and many scholarships are



-8._
being offered annually by various countries. Only five civil engineering
graduates will be returning to Somalia during the next four years, however,
and they will be free to select employment outside the Government service.
A special technical training program abroad is essential, therefore, to
train selected Somali personnel for future obligatory service in senior
positions in the Highway Section.  In the interim, it would be necessary
to appoint foreign experts, preferably in the form of a consulting engineer-
ing firm, to manage and be responsible for highway affairs.  The Government
has expressed its agreement to such an arrangement, and the U.N. Special
Fund has agreed in Drinciple to assist in financing the training of Somali
engineers and to employment of a consulting firmE,
35.       The Civil Service Law and the organizational structure and estab-
lishment of all MTinistries have recently been revised with the assistance
of UNTAB. The proposed organizational chart of the Public Works Department
seems satisfactory (see Table 2) but staffing allotments to the IHighway Sec-
tion (Civil Ehgineering Service) are low, The Government has agreed to
increase the Highway Section establishment to seven professional posts, with
the final staffing being decided upon after review by the consulting engineer-
ing firm appointed to manage highway affairs.
C. The Vehicle Fleet
36.       The low level of economic activity and poor roads in Somalia
result in a small number of road vehicles - approximately 5,9OO - and a
low vehicle density of 2.3 per 1000 inhabitants (compared to 6 per 1000
in the U.A.R. and 90 per 1000 average in EEC countries). The estinated
composition of the vehicle fleet, excluding military vehicles, was as
follows in 1963:-
Central and       Northern
Southern Regions     Region    Total
Passenger cars                   2,800             500     3,300
Trucks                           1.,472            550     2,022
Special trucks, (tankers
etc.) and buses                   152              50       202
Total motor vehicles        4,424           l,lOO     5,524
Truck trailers                360             n.a.      360
Total road vehicles         4,784           1,100     5,884
About 255 of the trucks are heavy trucks with a carrying capacity of about
6-7 tons, and capable of drawing a trailer carrying about 8 tons. In the
northern region, trailers are not used with trucks because of the mountain-
ous terrain.
37.       The relative impprtance of transportation services performed in
the different regions of the country, and the growth of road traffic in the
central and southern areas can be seen from Table 3. It will be noted that



-9...
the greatest transport activity is in the regions served by the project
roads, and that the rate of gasoline consumption has increased by about
10U per annum in the past 7 years.
38.       In central and southern Somalia, the majority of truck owners are
members of cooperative trucking societies. Four such cooperatives control
about half of all mediuim and heavy trucks in the country. The cooperatives
assist their members in locating work, setting adequate rates, reducing
unfair practices, and financing new acquisitions. Competition between the
trucking cooperatives is quite keen. There seems to be no strong measure
of government control and trucking rates find their level through the compe-
titive forces of free enterprise.
39.       The average price of gasoline in Somalia is US.49¢ equivalent per
US gallon, the tax element being about US.23¢ or 46%. Total revenue from
taxes and duties on motor vehicles, gasoline and diesel fuel average about
S. sh. 7- million annually (see Table 4). Administration mad maintenance
expenditures on highways have only averaged around S. sh. 2 million annually
in recent years (see Table 1), representing an extremely low expenditure
per km. of highway. A more adequate maintenance program, which will likely
result in much greater expenditure, should be determined by expert consult-
ing engineers.   The Government is prepared to include a special account for
highway maintenance in its annual budget, and to insure that funds are made
available in accordance with the recommendations of the consulting engineers.



-10-
IV. THF PROJECT
A, General Description
h0.       The project comprises three main items as summarized below:-
A) The construction of a two-lane road 200 km. long from
Afgoi to Baidoa with a 20 km. feeder road to Uanle Uen (see
Map), including the final design and preparation of contract
documents and supervision of construction by consulting
engineers;
B) Thc purchase of road maintenance and shop equipment, and
the provision of fully equipped offices for the Highway Sec-
tion;
C) A program of technical assistance including:
i, the organization, staffing and operation of
the Highway Section of the Public Works
Department by a consulting engineering firm
for a period of 4 to 5 years, with special
emphasis on highway maintenance;
ii. a reconnaissance study to coordinate short-
term transportation investment in Somalia;
iii. the feasibility studies of two high priority
roads, Hargheisa-Berbera, 170 km. and Berbera
Burao, 135 km., in the northern part of Somalia
(see M4ap);
iv. a technical training program abroad for about
14 - 16 Somalis selected for future service in
the Highway Section.
41.       Cost estimates and the approximate foreign component of cost for
the project are given in Table 5; the project items are described in
further detail below.
Road Construction
42.       The present road llogadiscio-Afgoi-Baidoa, a main artery in the
limited highway netw6rk of the country, is only paved and all-weather over
the first 30 km. section from Mogadiscio to Afgoi. It is proposed to
replace the 225 km. low standard section between Afgoi and Baidoa by a new
shorter road 200 km. long, built to modern all-weather standards, and to
construct a 20 km. feeder road to connect the village of Uanle Uen with
the new road. The total estimated cost is US$8.0 million equivalent, based
upon the Government's undertaking to exempt contractors from customs duties
and any other import taxes on imported materials and equipment intended for
use,in the execution of the project,



43.       Preliminary engincering studies have already been nade by an
Italian firm of consultinp engineers; their cost estimates are based upon
similar highway work now under construction in Somalia. The terrain is
flat or slightly rolling and no major variations in estimated quantities
are anticipated, Cost estimates include an allowance of about 18% for
unforeseen contingencies and are considered realistic.
44.       Design standards (see Table 6) have been kept to a minimum con-
sistent with sound engineering practices. About four-fifths of the main
road length from Baidoa would be constructed with a conventional crushed
stone pavement, and would cost an average of about US$33,000 per km.
Conventional road construction materials have to be hauled long distances
for constructing the base course over the remaining length, and this,
together with a relatively expensive line-soil stabilized sub-base,
raises the cost per km. of the 40 km. from Afgoi to about US$52,00O.
The 20 km. feeder road would be all-weather but unpaved and would cost
about US$18,000 per km.
45.       Estimated engineering costs for survey, design, bidding documents
and supervision of construction amount to Us$oQ6 million equivalent, or
about 7g% of the construction costs, which is reasonable in the circum-
stances.
46.       Execution of the project works would be by contractor after inter-
national competitive bidding; one or two contract sections are envisaged.
The procedures to be followed in connection with international bidding were
discussed and agreed with the Government during negotiations. Four large
foreign contracting firms (German, Italian, US and Lebanese) are currently
engaged in major civil engineering works in Somalia and would be in an
advantageous position to bid on the project. Allowing 8 - 9 months for
final engineering, a further h - 5 months for bidding and award of contract,
and about 3 years for construction, a total period of about h years would
be required for completion of the project after appointment of the consult-
ants.
Technical Assistance and Maintenance
47.       As mentioned in para. 3h, a foreign firm of consulting engineers
would be needed in an executive capacity to manage highway affairs
until such time as Somali personnel could be trained in sufficient numbers
to take over responsibility. About 6 - 8 senior foreign and the same
1'.ufr'ber of junior foreign personnel irould be required for a period of four to
five years. The total cost, including mobilization expenses, local trans-
;nrtation and subsistence, local office staff and a gradually increasing
_b ^er of Somali technical counterparts has been estimated by the mission
- 2t;out US$2,25 million equivalent, of which the foreign component would
be about 7O%, or US$,-1.6 million.
)"B.      Temporary office accommodation would be required until such
r,ir.=e as the permanent HighwJay Section offices (see para. 32) were ready
Zor occupation. One of the consultants' first tasks should be the design
and supervision of construction of the permanent office building. The



-12-
desi_n should preferably provide for future expansion to accommodate other
sections of OJD and ultimately the whole Ministry. A building to accommodate
a ''ighiway Section staff comprising about 10 - 12 professional or higher tech-
-c-' staff with about 50 draughtsmen, clerks and secretaries would cost
approxi;mately US100.000 in local currency and about US$150,000 in foreign
currency for essential highway office equipment and other imported materials.
Concurrently iith the above task, the consulting engineers would
-2^uer ake a study a.d thje preparation of a report on a suitable highway
.a_nltc-nance organization, indicating the requirements of equipment, materials,
personnel, and foreiTn and local currency funds over, say, the next five years.
The consultants wiould be expected to complete such a report within about h
to 5 months after appointment, and this report would form the basis far
future a'Llocations of maintenance funds by the Gavernment (see para. 39) and
for final equipment purchases.
50.       The approximate foreign currency requirements for the purchase of
maintenance equipment, for buildirg and equipping field workshops, and for
setting up an initial stock of materials and spare parts have been estimated
by the Government and Bank staff at about US$2.5 million equivalent, an
amount .jhich is considered realistic enough to launch the maintenance program
ci-d ro Provide for a substantial improvement in maintenance operations. In
t;..: early stages of the maintenance program, emphasis should be placed upon
the c.znstruction and staffing of field workshops to ensure proper servicing
.C' eTrIf purchased equipment.
A review of existing legislation relating to vehicle weights,
-'ons-ons, axle and wheel loading, and to the method of enforcing such
en-slation is also desirable, and would be included in the consultants
renort as a basis - )r their recoLmmendations on suitable road and bridge
cc->.-: standards .or Somalia. The Governmrent has undertaken to enact and
enforc_ adequate legislation in respect of road vehicles, within a
reascnable period of time., say, 3 to 4 years from the start of the project.
In the absence at the present time of specific recommendations by the U.N.
Economic Cornriission for Africa, the European standards for international
road transport vehicles would appear satisfactory.
Transnortation Study
52.'     lMany foreign governments and agencies are executing or contemplat-
ing transportation projects in Somalia. Their efforts and investments are
not properly coordinated, however, and the ultimate objective of building
up an integrated and balanced transportation system in Somalia is sometimes
overlooked or subordinated to other considerations.
53.       An inventory of current projects and a reconnaissance study of
short-term transportation investment should be carried out by independent
consultants to assist the Government in revising its 5-year development
plan. Such a study would involve about 15-20 man-months of work in review-
ing available reports on current and imediately proposed transportation



- 13 _
projects (mainly roads, ports, domestic airlines and coastal sh4pping).
The study shouJd include the development of limited additional economic
data where nececsary, to enable a judgment to be made on relative priori-
ties of projects axnd to avoid possible duplication of investment. Total
study costs might be of the order of US.$130,000 equivalent with a foreign
component of about 85%, or US.$llO0,000.
5L.       The consultants' study of short-term transportation investment
mentioned above should also develop a rationale and suitable scope of work
for a rmuch broader transportation survey in Somalia within the next few
years, the object of which would be to determine long-term transportation
needs and approximate capital requirements. Such a survey should logically
be preceded by a comprehensive economic study to indicate location, volumes
and growth of production and consumption, as a basis for assessing future
transportation requirements.
Highway Feasibility Studies
55.       From its preliminary review, the mission believes that the improve-
ment of two existing roads in the north of Somalia rates high in economic
priority. Both roads serve the hinterland of the port of Berbera (see Map)
from which about 800,000 head of sheep and goats with a total value of nearly
US.$10 million are now exported annually to Aden, Saudi Arabia and Egypt.
The numiber exported has increased rapidly over the past 5 years but is
expected to level off in a few years' time as competttion increases and
markets become saturated. A study for improving the port of Berbera with
Soviet aid was recently concluded and work is expected to commence shortly.
56.       About 350,000 head of sheep and goats are now trucked annually
over the 170 km. long road from Hargheisa to Berbera, and 500,000 over the
135 km. from Burao. The present condition of the roads is such that vehicle
operating costs are extremely high and the casualty rate amongst animals is
about 2% - 3%. The improvement of these roads appears economically justi-
fied from a rough estimation of costs and benefits.
57.       In order to confirm the mission:s preliminary findings, consulting
engineers should make engineering feasibility studies of the above two roads.
Such studies wRTould assist the Government in its road programming (the
Hargheisa road is in the current five-year program, the Burao road is not),
and in presenting an application to any external lending agency for financial
assistance. About 50 man-months of study are envisaged at a total cost
estimated roughly at US.$220,000 equivalent with a foreign component of about
US.$190,000.
Technical Training of Somalis
58.       As mentioned in para. 33, there is a gross shortage of Somali per-
sonnel with sufficient technical education to fit them for service in the
Highwray Section of RFD. A technical training program abroad should be
instituted after consultation with UNESCO to fill vacancies for about 6-8
-enior (graduated) technical staff and for about the same number of higher
technical personnel. As a condition for their free training, the students
5hould be obligated to stay in Government service for a period of 4 - 5
years upon their return.



59.       Based upon the allowiances made under UNESCO fellowships, USAID
and other nations' grants, an annual allouance of around US$3,500 equivalent
per student is believed sufficient to cover tuition fees, subsistence, per-
sonal allowance, foreign travel and all other foreign costs of Somali stu-
%dents in Europe or the U.S.A. Courses of study extending from 3 to 5 years
would likely be necessary, making total foreign costs around US$250,000
equivalent.
60.       The mission's discussions with officials of the Government and
Ui'ESCO in Nogadiscio indicated general agreement to the proposed training
program and the likelihood of good future cooperation. To help fill the
personnel gap in the Highway Section over the next few years, the Government
contenplates requesting engineering students now abroad on scholarships to
consider changing to civil engineering courses, and to specialise where
possible in highways. There could be no guarantee, however, that such stu-
dents would return to Government service in Somalia.
B. Summary of Costs and Financing
61.       The estimated project costs are summarized .eelow; an appropriate
allowance for un:o'eseen contingencies has boen made under eacn iteia:-
us$ million
Local    Foreign    Total
A.  Road Construction
1. Afgoi-Baidoa road and feeder              2.2       5.8       8.0
2.  Final engineering and supervision        0.1       0.5       0.6
Sub-total A:      2.3       6.3       8.6
B. MIaintenance Equipment and Offices
1. Maintenance Equipment and iMaterials      -         2.50      2.50
2.  Offices for Highway Section              0.10      0.15      0.25
Sub-total B:      0.10      2.65      2.75
C. Technical Assistance Program
1. Highway Management Consultants            0.65      1.60      2.25
2.  Investment Coordination Study            0.02      0.11      0.13
3. Feasibility Studies of new roads          0.03      0.19      0.22
4. Technical Training                        -         0.25      0.25
Sub-total C:      0.70      2.15      2.85
Project total:      3.10      1.10     14.20



62.       The costs of the consulting services within the technical assis-
t.nce program (item C above) have been estimated by Bank Staff and are not
based upon the specific proposals of consulting firms. They are considered
realistic enough, however, for the present stage.
63.       The Somali Government can contribute little towards the cost of
the project, but expect to be able to meet the local cost of consulting
advisory services (items C 1, 2 and 3 above). The Government has also under-
taken to make adequate annual budget appropriations to cover the local costs
of future highwiay maintenance in accordance with the findings of the consult-
-n  en-ineers (see para. 39).
6i,.      Since the scope of the project is beyond the limit of available IDA
Crzwi. it has been necessary to consider the participation of other financing
*' .ui' os. Discussions with the Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED) of the
,: A;eean Economic Community (EEC) and with the United Nations Special Fund
t''SF) have resulted in the following plan,yet to be finally approved by the
rsspcctivc agencies, for jointly financing the project:-
US$ million equivalent
:tem              Total        IDA           FD 1/    USF I/    GOVT.
A. Road Construction
1) Afgoi-Baidoa &
feeder             8.0(100%)    6.2(78%)   1.8(22%)     -          -
2) Engineering &
Supervision        0.6           -         0.6 v         -         -
B. IMIaintenance Equip-
ment & Offices        2.75           -        2.75          -         -
C. Technical Assistance  2.85          -          -         2.15       0.70
14.20(100So)  6.2o(4hrof) 5.15(36%S) 2.15(25%) 0.70(5%)
1/ grant aid
2  of which, US'¶300,000 will be made available immediately by FED out
of its teclnical assistance funds to enable final engineering to
commence without delay.
65.       Under the plan, IDA and FED would share the cost of road construc-,, ;4'J
tion net of customs duties, FED would finance the related road engineeringj    , >^,_ ; *C
UNSF w.ould finance the foreign costs of the technical assistance program,' , ~..
while FED would finance, under a separate grant, the purchase of maintenance
equipment and the provision of an equipped office building for the Highway
Section. The FED and UNSF contributions would be in the form of grants. Road
construction would be executed on the basis of international competitive
bidding, but maintenance and office equipment would be procured only from
members of the EEC. IDA and FED would be in close liaison over the arrange-
ments for road engineering and supervision. Details of the proposed financ-
ing arr'angements were confirmed by all participating agencies during credit
negotiations; a condition of effectiveness of the DA credit will be the con-
clusion of firm financing agreements with the other participating agencies.



-16-
V.  ECO?'ONTC JUSTIF-ICATIOM OF ROAD CO'ISTRUCTION
A, Zone of Influence
66.       The project road from Afgoi to Baidoa passes through an important
dry farming region stretching in an arc from Bur Acaba (population 13, 000-
15,000) through Baidoa (population 25,000-30,000) to the village of Dinsor.
Approximately 220,000 people (80,000 sedentary farmers, 11O,OO townspeople;
100,OCO semi-nomadic pastoralists) live in the area served by the project
road, giving it the highest average density of rural population in the
country outside the foreign and indigenous farming settlements along the
agricultural center of the region and the principal transhipment point for
goods moving to and from the surrounding towns of Dinsor, Lugh Ganane, Uegit
and Oddur.
67.       Potential arable land in the Baidoa region is estimated at around
300,000-L00,000 hectares, although estimates vary widely. Mean annual rain-
fall is around 500-550 mm. with a monthly high up to 200 mm. The soils are
suitable for dry-land farming, with high water-holding capacity and good
tilth. Only about half of the potential arable land is now tilled by
approximately 16,000 farm families.   Sorghum wheat, locally known as durra,
is the crop most extensively grown, accounting for over 80 per cent of the
area farmed.  Small quantities of maize, cotton, sesame, peas and groundnuts
are also grown. Recent estimates by a UNSF/FAO study team place the average
annual production of durra from the area around Baidoa and Bur Acaba at some
45-50,000 tons (valued at about TJS$21 million equivalent in Baidoa), which
is over half the total durra production of the six southern regions. Produce
is usually moved by donkey and camel over poor tracks from farms to market
places at Baidoa and Bur Acaba, where nart is sold for local consumption
and part is transoorted by truck to consumption centers around Mogadiscio.
The village of Uanle Uen, situated on the existing track but by-passed by
the proposed new main road alignment, has some importance as a trading
center for nomadic tribes and is also located in a small pocket of soil
suitable for dry-land farming. The project provides for an all-weather
feeder road linking the village to the new main road.
68.       Another important activity in the zone of influence is the produc-
tion of charcoal for donestic use and for export. Production has been
estimated at about 60,000 tons annually (valued at about US$0.4 million
equivalent ex-village), the bulk of which is transported by truck to
Kiogadisojo, where its value is around US$1 million equivalent. Resources
of timber for charcoal have been rapidly depleted, however, due to lack of
control and improper forestry management. The Government is now exercising
more control and has increased the export duty on charcoal as a preservative
measure pending further studies. Iron ore deposits on the line of the proposed
road betwieen Bai-doa and Bur Acaba are under study and may prove to be commer-
cially exploitable.
B. Factors Affecting Agricultural Grorth
69.,      The annual durra production of the region has been virtually static
over the past few years notwrithstanding an increase in population and an



- 17 -
increasing per capita consuzption of cereals generally. The region is in
danger of becoinng a grain deficit area uriless some stimulus can be provided
to achieve and sustain a growth rate in grain production,of at least 1.5
per cent annually. In 1962, Somalia had to import about 22,000 tons of
cereals and cereal-based products, valued at US$2.8 million, in order to meet
the country's increasing demands.
70.       The principal factor inhibiting agricultural development is
inadequate rainfall, although rudimentary farming techniques, infertile
seeds, pests and poor transportation within the region also contribute to
the low and static level of yields. Uncontrolled marketing also plays a roll
in keeping production at little more than subsistence level; a glut of durra
will result in extremely low market prices, while a shortage will rocket
prices. In 1963, the prices of durra in Baidoa market ranged from
S. sh. 20-90 per quintal (US$28-128 per ton). Farmers seldom receive a
remunerative price for their products and are kept in a state of indebtedness
by merchants who give credit at high rates of interest.
71.       While studies have shown that any substantial increase in agricul-
tural production in the zone of influence would involve a massive injection
of capital, it is believed that better farming techniques, better seed, some
small degree of mechanization (such as ox-drawn ploughs), better storage
and marketing facilities, and improved means of transportation would all
contribute towards a modest increase in the agricultural yield of the area
and would help avoid its becoming a grain deficit area.
72.       The Government recognizes the problems iraolved in sustaining and
increasing agricultural production and has asked the UN Special Fund to
study grain storage, marketing and price stabilization throughout the
country with a view to creating a government purchasing authority, one of
the objectives of which would be to provide sufficient incentives for farmers
to increase grain production through a system of guaranteed prices and
credit facilities. If such a study is carried out, either wholly or in
part, it would be desirable to concentrate on the project area and lay tho
groundwork for an eventual country-wride purchasing authority by establishing
an initial pilot scheme in Baidoa; the o'Government has indicated its willing-
ness to consider giving the Bai'loa area first priority in this respect.
73.       Under USAID auspices, an experimental farm and a farmer training
center were established near Baidoa a few years ago. Experiments &re directed
towards developing a better strain of durra seed in the area, increasing over-
all production, and conducting field trials on various types of grain and
different methods of cultivation. At the farmer training center, 40-50
farmers monthly receive training on basic methods of farm operations includ-
ing the use of ox-drawn ploughs to replace existing primitive hand-tilling
methods. Seed-, insecticides, ploughs and small farm tools are distributed
throughout the farming communities in return for a nominal payment of a saclc
or two of grain. Sixteen extension officers from the Ministry of Agriculture
are intended to co-operate with the farmer training center; but, due to
inadequate central control, their services were not being fully utilized
until recently. The Ministry has now strengthened its field control and has
also instituted a training course at the center for ten more extension officers.



-18.
In addition, USAID has recently constructed water catchment basins, wind-
operated water puxmps and metal grain silos in villages throughout the zone
of influence, Future   USAID plans provide for increasing the amount of
experimental farming equipment and improving the facilities for grain storage
and water conservancy in the Baidoa area:
74.       High priority has been given by the Government to measures aimed
at reducing the import of grain and other agricultural commodities, in the
expectation that the country could become self-sufficient at least in cereal
production in normal crop years. Under the 5-Year Development Plan, the
Government is expected to provide the Bur Acaba-Baidoa area with additional
agricultural extension programs, health and educational services, grain
storage and marketing programs and agricultural credit facilities. A central
machinery pool of agricultural and earth-moving equipment is now being
organized in Baidoa for hire to local farmers and co-operatives.
75.       The mission believes that some improvement to the feeder roads
radiating from Baidoa in addition to the construction of the project road
would also help stinulate further agricultural activity in the region; and,
although not deemed important enough for specific inclusion in the project,
it is recommended that highway maintenance efforts be concentrated in the
first instance on such roads leading from Baidoa to Dinsor, Audinle, and
part way to Uegit. The Government agrees that the maintenance program should
be dravm up accordingly to reflect these priorities for road improvement.
C. Economic Benefits
76.       The dearth of statistical data in Somalia makes the economic
appraisal of any highway project more qualitative than quantitative. The
benefits deriving from construction of the project road which can most
easily be quantified are those resulting from reduced vehicle operating
costs on the new road as compared with the old. The level of these benefits
has been estimated at about 7-8 per cent on the investment in the road and
associated engineering over its useful life, after making adequate financial
provision for future maintenance. Other benefits, less certain and more
difficult to quantify, are likely to derive from the stimulus to agricultural
production in the zone of influence of the project road.  Although these
benefits are somewihat dependent on the financial incentives passed on to
the farmer, it is believed that with better marketing arrangements and a
more intensive utilization of the existing and immediately planned
agricultural facilities, the area could be prevented from becoming a grain
deficit area and could likely produce a greater marketable surplus for
consumption in other parts of the country,
77.       Based upon information collected from trucking firms, forwarding
agents, police records, export-import data, and other evidence, the
consulting firm which made the feasibility study estimated that the
IIogadiscio-Afgoi-Baidoa-Lugh Ganane route carries the heaviest traffic in
the central region. The current traffic on the project section from Afgoi
to Baidoa is estimated at between 15 and 16 million ton km. annually.
I



-19-
78.       The existing daily traffic on the road averages about 50 vehicles,
over three-quarters of which are medium or heavy trucks with trailers. In
terms of tonnage, about 95 per cent is through traffic between Afgoi and
Baidoa; commodities carried are mainly consumer goods, grain, charcoal,
construction materials, and some livestock. In addition, about 100,000
passengers a year travel the road, indicating a fairly high level of social
and business activity. During and just after the two rainy seasons, the road
is impassable to vehicles for a total of about 2 months in the year. Freight
tariffs vary considerably from about US¢h0-45 per truck km. in the dry season,
to about double those rates just after the rainy season.
79.       The consultants estimate modest future increases in traffic volume
on the project road, averaging abouLt 6 per cent per annum for the next ten
years and falling to between h and 5 per cent for the ten years thereafter,
Figures are not available to compare these growth rates with projected growth
in GIl?, but the projection appears very conservative and is far less than
the 10 per cent growth in gasoline consumption (see para. 37) and that of
the total amount of goods exported or imported through the port of
AIogadiscio in recent years.
80.       The project road would be about 25 kam. shorter than the present
route; the journey could then be made in one half to one third of the time
now required; the road would be passable all year round instead of for only
ten months; and average vehicle operating costs per km. would be reduced by
over 40 per cent, Talking all these factors into account, the quantifiable
economic benefits accruing from construction of the project road are
equivalent to a return of at least 7 to 8 per cent over its useful seaxnomic
life of 20 years, This return is not high, but taken together with the
possible stimulus to agricultural production and with other more intangible
social and administrative benefits, it is considered to provide an adequate
justification for constructing the project road.
VI.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOI ENDATIONS
81.       A highway project in Somalia comprising (i) road construction,
(ii) the development of highway maintenance facilities, and (iii) a program
of technical assistance, appears suitable for IDA financing. The project
is technically sound and justified, although quantifiable economic benefits
are only marginal.
82.       The Government can contribute little towards the cost of the
project, but a joint financing plan covering 95 per cent of the estimated
total costs has been agreed in principle by Iml, FED and UNSF. IDA's con-
tribution would be US$6.2 million equivalent (or 44 per cent of the total
cost) which would be applied towards the cost of road construction.



83.       On the basis of the proposed financing plan, the Government and
the other participating agencies (with the Bank as the prospective Executing
Agency for the UNSF part of the project) attended credit negotiations in
Brussels in November 1964. The negotiations, touching on the financial ar-
rangements, intermational competitive bidding and other matters affecting
the execution of the project, were satisfactorily concluded.
84.       The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.2 million
equivalent, to become effective when satisfactory commitments are given
by the other participants for the balance of financing.
December 10, 1964
Technical Operations Department



Table 1
SC 4A JT: :IICGiPJAY PROJECT
Public 'lorks and iighway slaintenance Expenditures 1961-1964
(S. sh. million)
Fiscal Year:                1961     1962     1963 1/ 1964 1/
A. DEPARTIE4.T OF PUBLIC l!ORKS
1. Ordinary Budgset
a)  Personnel                        10.6     10.3     10.3    10.6
b) Services (maintenance, accommo-
dation, transport, etc.)21.3     10.1     12.7    11.3
Subtotal      31.9     20.4     22e0    21.9
2.  Special Budget 2/
Tcaital investni.ent)                 4.2      6.3      6.0     4.1
TOTAL       36.1     26.7     28.0    26.0
I^Y:- -J';r ;iJHQ CE (specific allocations
in Departnent Budget)
1. Ordinary Bud;et
a)  Regional Personnel                -        -        -       0.2
b) ciaintenance 5crvices              1.5      1.4      2.0     1.7
Subtotal       1.5      1.4      2.0     1.9
2. Snecial T3udget 3/                     0.5      0.4      0.3     0.0
IOTAL        2.0      1.8      2.3     1.9
1/ budget appropriiations; not expenditures
2/  excluding foreign aid projects, mostly in
buildings and highwacrs
3/  including so.ie minor force account construc-
tion but e:cluding foreign grant and aid for
highway constr-uction, wnich averages about S.
sh. 20 million (US;'3.0 million) per annum for
about 21 years from 1963.
Source I.Hinistry of Finance



SOMALIA: HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
DIRECTOR
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
A             MADMINISTRATION  
l --                                       l'                       ---                I 
SECTIONS:        WATER SUPPLY                 BUILDINGS                        HIGHWAYS*               MECHANICAL AND
(Civil Engineering Service)     ELECTRICAL
CENTRAL
WORKSHOPS
FIELD DIVISIONS.          NORTH                                 CENTRAL                                        SOUTH
REGIONAL    ARESA         BAO        MIGIURTINIA   MUDUGH        HRNBENADIR                          ALOGUABASSO GIUBA
DIVISIONSA
*Staffing Establishment. 4 Professionol                                                                                                    -1
5 Higher Technical                                                                                                       C
I Clerical                                                                                                               rD
(RI ISRO - 2345 r
N



Table 3
SOAIALIA: HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. 1962 Gasoline Consumption
Regions                                     (hectoliters)3
Hargheisa and Burao 2/                          72,705
iHigiurtinia                                     3,300
IMudugh                                          3,500
Hiran                                            1,000
Benadir 2/                                      68;0oo
Alto Giuba i/                                    2; 400
Basso Giuba                                     13,100
Total               164,405
1/ The regions in which road feasibility studies are
proposed (see Map)
2/ The regions in which project road construction is
proposed
Source: AGIP, Somalia.
II. Annual Gasoline Consumption, 1957-63
(for the six Regions
excluding Hlargheisa and Burao)
Year                  Quantity           Relative Growth
(hectoliters)          (1957=100)
1957                   57,000                  100
1958                   69,500                  122
1959                   75,000                  132
1960                   75,000                  132
1961                   82,000                  144
1962                   92,000                  161
1963                  104,000                  182
Source: AGIP, Somalia.



Table 4t
' L-^ LIIt: IHIGIM-AY PROXECT
Annual Revenues from Road-User Taxes
(S. sh. 000)
1961      1962      1963
A. Import Duties on Vehicles and Spare Parts
1)  South                                 2,500     3,800     2,000 1/
2)  North 2/                                370       510       530
Subtotal     2,870     4,310     2,530
B.  Taxes on Gasoline, Diesel, Lubricants, etc.
2,176     2,480    4,230
C. Vehicle Registration and Licensing
1,023     1,070     1,200
TOTAL      6,o69     7,860     7,960
1/ ImDort duties reduced on heavy trucks to encourage nurchase
2/ Former British Somaliland, namely Burao and Hargheisa Regions
Source: Ministry of Finance



Table 5
SOIMALIA: HIIGHUAY PROJECT
Estimiates of' ProJect Cost
US$ million
Foreign      Total
A. Road Construction and Associated Engineering
1.  Construction 200 km. Afgoi-Baidoa road,
plus 20 km. feeder                             5.8(73%) 1'  8.0 2/
2.  Survey, design and supervision by con-
sultants                                       0.5(80%)     o.6
Sub-total         6.3          8.6
1/ for breal:do,.Tn, see table below.
2/ net of' duties and including a contingency allowance of about 18%
B. Highway Mainterlince and Office Building
1. Road maintenance equipment, workshops,
shop equipm-ent, spares and materials          2.50         2.50
2. Design, build and equip Highway Section
Headquarters in i-iogadiscio                   0.15         0.25
Sub-total         2.65         2.75
C. Technical Assistance Program
1.  Organize and manage Highwzay Section
including maintenance operations, for
a period of 4 to 5 years (about 700
foreign mann mcnths)                           1.60(70%)    2.25
2.  Study to co-ordinate short-term trans-
portation investment (about 15-20 m.m.)        0.11(85%)    0.13
3.  Engineer½L- feasibility studies of 305 km.
high prior_cy roads (about 30 m.m.)            0.19(85%)    0.22
U. Foreign technical training of Somalis           0.25         0.25
Sub-total         2.15         2.85
Project Total:        11.10       14.20
Breakdoxn of Estimated Foreigni Com-onent of Construction Cost
Item as /J    Z t-oreign Com-   % Foreign Com-
Item                         Total Cost    ponent in Item    ponent of Tctal
1. lWages & Salaries                22              40               9
2.  Equipment & Spares              34              99               34
3. Ilaterials                       27              60               17
4. Overhead & Profit                17              75               13
Total Cost       100              -                73



Table 6
,QO;L;.LI:  1;IGT, TiAY PjROJ CT
Desi7n Standards
iiain Aoad
1.  Desi,n Soeed                    70 iKph. (minimum)
2.  vidth of Carria-eway            6.0 m.
3.  'Tidth of Shoulders             1.5 m.
h. Transverse Gradient:
a) CarriagewTay           2,
b) Shoulders
5. :iaximum Lonr,itudinal Gradient  5'0
6. * lini!,lum Radius of Curves
a) Flat Terrain          500 m.
b) iHountainous Terrain   150 m.
7.  Desig!n U.heel Load             hOOO Kg.
8.  Brid.e Design                   Continuous truck
train with 10-ton
axle loads.
Feeder Road
1.  Width of Carriageway            4.0 m.
2.  Width of Shoulders             1.5 ma
Source: Italconsult



MAP
C   e4t+W?           CULP OF ADEN
J   T~~~~IJIBznOU_TI
(  \    ,    :     /    oE~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~govo. oKr  Hodo
Sc.2c,a ban
Twwo W.ole \             U  R<  A  0uo      ,od   ;f   l  Sl
A.,
¢  5  I  .-_                ,_~ 
-. 4Bohotltth  0La, An0d  'Gorme
H~~~~~                            7; 0  P      E A
e   At   /   ,   ,,,9~~~~~~~~~li  Doldolj
S  X-L=^rwsoS5omo/to       /             +      /        +~~~~~~~D-o m,e
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
/Diet,d9aoMre.<>4                  6 
_._.  ~~~Dotoi;.               \     / 
/  g   %    ,\             buto B.rt, 
(t -- JocDA                   hddel \e
t   i   80rdrC 5  _ de,   8omsor   td;   U 
;    * >'Golu ' -WK~~MOGADiSCIO   REPUBLIC OF SOMALIA
\"o-~ ~ ~~~~4
S 1-l   *.-o'-rLoco 'e                      HIGHWAY SYSTEM
I'                                        I'lroQ5  8toInentoa  onar
0F          /j /               I       . . _  . .  .   ... I b...d. ry
Lrsl   ;\   < / < /      ~~~~~~~~~Principal *Iry   'rti  od
Z   a]  t-  /   t-2V~~~~~~~CLArOtt  A farmning a eils
12i  ;.;. *  Et°            cr  r  baisi ,   M a0 n  ro t drnder
jIGC U E ,A  -i I  O                      M ain  sre pBrtt
h   ,/                                         + ~ Ma tMain airpart.  all deth-
*   ALtDO~         .s     200    30 a  o O KM       PROJEGT ROADS
I                                                SYSTMCo-tr,cti-
,RR"A* ChSa0bone
/                              ****vve@*  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F-Jaibil,ty study
C0 ._OF.FI j64                                                      l8RO-o340RI



