RETURN      TO                                        RESTRICTED
REPORTS DESK                 FLE COPY                      Report No TO 655a
WITHIN
ONE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may It be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A SUPPLEMENTARY
CREDIT FOR HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION
SOMALIA
June 13, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Unit                 - Somali Shilling (Sh So)
1 Somali Shilling    = US$0. 14
7. 14 Somali Shillings  = US$1. 0
1 million Somali
Shillings          = US$140,845
FISCAL YEAR
January 1            - December 31
UNITS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Conversion Metric: British/US
1 kilometer (km)     = 0. 62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)          = 3. 28 feet (ft)
1 metric ton (m ton)  = 2, 204 pounds (lb)



SOMALIA
APPRAISAL OF A SUPPLEii4ENTARY CREDIT FOR
HIGMHAY CONSTRUCTION
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY                                                 i
1.   BACKGROUND                                              1
2.   THE PROJECT                                             7
A.  Description                                         7
B.  Cost Estimates                                      7
C.  Execution of the Project                            8
D.  Finance                                             8
E.  Disbursement                                        8
3.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                 10
4.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                        12
TABLE: Credit 74-30 - Estimated Costs
CHART: Present Organization of Public Works Department
MAP:    Republic of Somalia: Highway System
This report has been written by Messrs. N. S. Parthasarathi, economist,
and F. D. T. Reid, engineer, on the basis of an appraisal mission in
March/April 1968 and should be read in conjunction with Report No. TO-431b
dated December 10, 1964.



SOMALIA
APPRAISAL OF A SUPPI?IENTARY CREDIT FOR
HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION
SUMIARY
In March 1965 the Association, the UIDP and FED jointly financed
a road project in Somalia consisting of: (i) the engineering and construc-
tion of a 200 km new road between Afgoi and Baidoa, (ii) the purchase of
road maintenance equipment, (iii) the construction of a highway office
building, (iv) technical assistance to strengthen the highway organization,
(v) feasibility studies of two high priority roads, (vi) a study to
coordinate transport investment, and (vii) the training abroad of Somali
staff for the highway organization. The total cost of the project was
estimated at US$14.2 million, of which U5$8.0 million was for road construc-
tion. Of the total project cost, FED is providing US$5.15 million equivalent,
UNDP US$2.15 million equivalent and IDA US$6.2 million equivalent for road
construction under Credit 74-SO; and the Somali Government is providing
US$0.7 million equivalent. The Association is the executing agency for the
project as a whole.
ii.       The lowest bid received for the Afgoi-Baidoa Road was US$9.7
million equivalent, excluding contingencies. A reduction in the design
standards of the road was considered in an effort to reduce costs further
but was found impractical for technical reasons. The inclusion of con-
tingencies would raise the cost to about US$10.8 million, approximately
US$2.8 million equivalent greater than funds provided under the original
project. The bid was accepted in January 1968 and work was started in
March.
iii.      Of the additional US$2.8 million equivalent required to complete
the construction of the road, the Somali Government is able to provide an
amount of only US$0.5 million equivalent.  It has requested a supplementary
IDA credit of US$2.3 million to finance the remainder.
iv.       Disbursements under the proposed supplementary credit will not
take place until 1970 after the first credit has been fully disbursed.
v.        The completion of the Afgoi-Baidoa Road would provide all-weather
access to an important agricultural area; even with the higher costs, the
economic return is satisfactory at about 10 percent.
vi.       Performance under the present credit is satisfactory, but progress
has been slow, due in part to the closing of the Suez Canal.
vii.      The project provides a suitable basis for a supplementary credit
of US$2.3 million equivalent to the Government of Somalia.



SOMALIA
APPRAISAL OF A SUPPLUNENTARY CREDIT
FOR HIGI4AY CONSTRUCTION
1. BACKGROUND
1.01      On March 20, 1965, the Association provided the Somali Republic
with a development credit (Credit 74-So) of US$6.2 million to assist in
financing a road project which consisted of:
Part A -  The engineering, construction and supervision of a
new road approximately 200 km long between Afgoi
and Baidoa and a 20 km feeder road linking Uanle Uen
with the new road.   The engineering and supervision
are being financed by a FED grant and the construction
is being shared by IDA (78 percent) and a FED grant
(22 percent).
Part B - The purchase of road maintenance and shop equipment,
and the building and equipping of new offices for the
Highway Department.   This part of the project is being
financed by a FED grant.
Part C - A technical assistance program including:
a) the organization, staffing and operation of the
Highway Department by a firm of consulting engi-
neers for a period of 4 to 5 years with special
emphasis on highway maintenance;
b) a reconnaissance study to coordinate short term
transport investment in Somalia;
c) the feasibility studies of two high priority roads,
Berbera-Hargeisa and Berbera-Burao in the north of
Somalia;
d) a technical training program abroad for about 15
Somalis selected for future service in the Highway
Department.
This part of the project is being financed by a UNDP
grant.
The project was appraised in 1964 (see Report No. TO-43lb dated December 10,
1964).   The details of the financing are shown in the attached Table.   The
credit became effective on September 16, 1966, and the Closing Date is June 30,
1969.



- 2 -
Execution of the Project financed under Credit 74-so
(a) The Construction of a Two-Lane Road Between Afgoi
and Baidoa
1.02      The project included the construction of a road, 200 km long,
between Afgoi and Baidoa together with a feeder road, 20 km long, link-
ing Uanle Uen with the new road.    The cost was estimated at US$8.0
million equivalent, based on preliminary engineering studies carried
out by ITALCONSULT, an Italian consulting firm, and included an allowance
of 18 percent for contingencies.
1.03      In January 1966 the alignment of the road was altered, at the
Government's request and with the Association's agreement, to pass
through Uanle Uen thereby eliminating the need for the feeder road but
extending the new road by 16 km.    The cost was estimated to remain about
the same as the original project proposal due to the elimination of the
link feeder road and the shorter distances to quarries and wells. Noti-
fication of the change in alignment was made in a report to the Executive
Directors, No. R65-195 dated December 23, 1965.
1.04      Under the joint financing agreement with the Fonds Europeen
de Developpement (FED), the detailed engineering was carried out by
KOCKS, a German firm of consulting engineers.    The consultants estimated,
on the basis of final engineering, that the cost of the road, including
a contingency item of about 2 percent, would be about US$8.4 million
equivalent, an increase of US$0.4 million over the appraisal estimate.
Not±ces inviting proposals for prequalification from international
contractors were published in September 1966 and 31 contracting firms
applied; of these 18 were prequalified but only six requested bidding
documents.   Bids for construction were received in July 1967 from four
firms.   Tenderers were asked to submit bids for a 26-month period of
construction and to quote a percentage adjustment in the event that an
extension in construction time from 26 to 36 months would be allowed.
1.05      The lowest bid was submitted by a consortium of three firms;
Strabag-Bau (Germany), Stirling-Astaldi (UK) and Impresit-Recchi (Italy);
their price, including allowances for alternative bridge proposals over
the Scebeli and Horgoi Rivers as well as a 2½ percent reduction for a
36-month construction period, was US$10.1 million.    It is likely that
the Middle East war, which occurred during the bidding period, had an
adverse impact on the bidding, due both to the closure of the Suez Canal
and to the uncertainty it created in the minds of bidders.    Consideration
was given to retendering but this would have resulted in a further delay
of about six months, with no assurance that lower prices would be obtained
as a result of retendering.



1.o6      Reductions in the cost of construction are possible by omitting,
for the time being, certain non-essential items (such as camel watering
holes, camel paths and the grassing of side slopes), the omission of which
may create some difficulties but would not affect the standard of construc-
tion.
1.07      The Government has decided, with the Association's concurrence,
to defer these items until a clearer picture of overall co8t emerges at
which time a decision could be taken. The Association does not recommend
any lowering of standards in an effort to reduce costs, because the design
standards selected for the road are the minimum necessary for expected
traffic. By excluding the items mentioned above the cost is about US$9.7
million. The inclusion of roughly 12 percent for contingencies would
bring the overall financing required to US$10.8 million, that is US$2.8
million in excess of the funds provided.
1.08      Of the additional US$2.8 million equivalent now required for
constructing the Afgoi-Baidoa Road, the Government is able to provide only
uS$O.5 million from its own resources over the years 1969 and 1970.  Thus
the funds required from other sources will be about US$2.3 mlllion equiva-
lent.
1.09      FED informed IDA that it was unable to provide any additional
funds in excess of its total contribution to the project, but was willing
to make available part of its contribution for road maintenance equipment.
FED will need to find an additional amount of about US$0.3 million
equivalent for the supervision of construction of the Afgoi-Baidoa Road due to
the longer construction period. FED has proposed, and the Association
concurs, that the extra amount for supervision be taken from the provision
for road maintenance equipment. Since any substantial reduction in road
maintenance equipment would have an adverse effect on road maintenance,
the Association considered it unwise to reduce this part of the project
beyond this amount up to which facilities exist for the renting of
equipment. It was decided, therefore, that none of the FED road
maintenance equipment provision should be used to finance the additional
cost of road construction.
(b) Maintenance Equipment and Offices
(i) Maintenance Equipment and Facilities
1.10      The original program for acquiring road maintenance equipment and
workshop facilities, which is financed entirely by a FED grant, is in two
phases. The supply of equipment and facilities under Phase II is dependent
upon experience gained after Phase I equipment and workshop facilities have



- 4 -
been in use for about six months, and will take account of the additional
funds required for the supervision of the construction of the Afgoi-Baidoa
Road.
US$ Thousand
Phase I     Road Maintenance Equipment                   1,580
Workshop facilities                            220
Total        1,800
Phase II    Road Maintenance Equipment                     650
Workshop facilities                             50
Total          700
1.11      Since FED is providing all the funds for road maintenance
equipment and workshop facilities, procurement is subject to FED
procedures, and bids are being invited only from interested suppliers
from member countries of the European Economic Community (EEC).    The
tender documents for procurement under Phase I were prepared in May 1966,
by the consultants employed under the technical assistance part of the
project.   FED was dissatisfied with the specifications because they
placed certain suppliers of road maintenance equipment at a competitive
disadvantage and called for a review of the specifications by independent
consultants.   The call for bids was further delayed in 1967, while the
discussions on the additional financing for the Afgoi-Baidoa Road took
place.   Eventually FED agreed to call for bids on February 20, 1968, and
tenders were to be received by Hay 20, 1968.
(ii) Offices for the Highway Department
1.12      Construction of the new offices for the Highway Department
to replace an old and unsatisfactory building is being financed by a grant
from FED, and is being undertaken by a firm of Somali contractors; con-
struction commenced early in 1967 and is expected to be completed in
May 1968.   Delays have occurred in obtaining doors, windows and other
fittings.   Office and laboratory equipment is on order in member countries
of the EEC and is expected to arrive in early 1969, until which time exist-
ing equipment will be used.   The new offices have been designed and will
be equipped for a modern highway department.
(c) Technical Assistance Program
1.13      The program of technical assistance, which is wholly financed
by a UNDP technical assistance grant, is in four parts.   (See paragraph
1.01).



(i) The Organization, Staffing and Operation of the Highwy
Department
1.14      At the time of the appraisal of the credit 74-SO, there were
two Somali engineers and 10 technical staff in the Civil Engineering
Department of the Ministry of Public Works. Today (see Chart) there are
five Somali engineers, including the Director, and 36 technical staff
members working under the direction of SAUTI, an Italian firm of consult-
ing engineers who are training Somalisto take over the operation of the
Department. SAUTI is also training Somali field personnel to carry out
routine road maintenance operations. Funds provided for road maintenance
have been increasing annually since 1964 and the 1968 provision of US$0.7
million equivalent is double the 1965 figure. However, due principally
to unattractive pay and working conditions in the field, there is a short-
age of suitable recruits in the Ministry of Public Wbrks for training as
operators and mechanics who will be required when the new equipment being
provided by FED arrives (see paragraph 1.10). The Government has under-
taken to improve the pay and service conditions of operators and mechanics
so as to attract and retain them in the service.
1.15      Due partly to the immediate effect of the Middle East crisis and
the closure of the Suez Canal, the Government has been placed in a more
difficult financial position than normal. The road maintenance provision
for 1968 will allow only routine maintenance, and until the road mainte-
nance equipment being provided by FED arrives, little is possible in the
way of improvement in maintenance.
(ii) Reconnaissance Study
1.16      A transport survey of existing facilities in the country, and
of proposed transportation projects, was undertaken in 1965/66 by Grimble
and Associates, a Canadian consulting firm. The survey identified the
following projects as having high priority: development of a deep-water
port in Mogadishu, and construction of all-weather roads between Hargeisa-
Berbera, Arara-Giamama and Afgoi-Baidoa. The Association is at present
actively considering a credit for financing the detailed engineering of
a new deep-water port for Mogadishu.
(iii) Feasibility Studies of Two High Priority Roads
1.17      Feasibility studies of the Hargeisa-Berbera (170 km) and Burao-
Berbera (134 km) Roads were completed by Grimble and Associates, simul-
taneously with the transport survey mentioned in paragraph 1.16. The
consultants concluded that the Hargeisa-Berbera Road forms the backbone
of transportation in the Northern Region of Somalia and that a return
of over 10 percent could be expected on the investment in its construc-
tion; the UNDP has expressed its willingness to consider financing the
detailed engineering. The consultantst findings on the Burao-Berbera
Road were that its construction would produce a return of only 6 percent
on investment.



- 6 -
(iv) Technical Training Program Abroad
1.18      Four Somalis have completed a period of training abroad and
are employed in the Civil Engineering Department as counterparts to the
consultants.   Another Somali is at present on a UN fellowship abroad;
four more have been accepted for fellowships and are expected to leave
shortly.   In addition, arrangements are being made with the UN for the
training abroad of a further three Somali engineers.



- 7 -
2. THE PROJECT
A.   Description (see map)
2.01      The project for which supplementary financing is requested
comprises the completion of the construction of a two-lane bitumen
surfaced road between Afgoi and Baidoa (216 km) via Uanle Uen.
2.02      The road starts in Afgoi where the present bitumen surfaced
road from Yiogadishu, the capital city and principal port of Somalia,
terminates.   It will provide all-weather access to an area of consider-
able agricultural potential to which the Government attaches great
importance, but in which development is handicapped by lack of adequate
access.   At present, access is provided by a low standard road which
has become a channel, collecting flood water from the surrounding
country-side.   During a normal year the present road between Afgoi and
Baidoa is closed, through waterlogging, for an average of six weeks
between March and June and for a further four weeks between October and
December.   In 1967, a year of exceptionally heavy and prolonged rains,
the road was closed for a total period in excess of four months.
2.03      The new road will traverse fairly level, arid, scrub country
consisting of alluvial soils.   Road construction materials are scarce
in the section between Afgoi and Uanle Uen and will have to be hauled
long distances; between Uanle Uen and Baidoa suitable road building
material is in more abundant supply.   Because the country is arid,
water for construction purposes is not readily available and boreholes
will be needed.   The consultants who carried out the detailed engineering
of the road have located 16 sites along the route where ground water is
available.   These sites are also suitable to meet the needs of local
communities and livestock.
B.   Cost Estimates
2.04      The cost estimates of the project are as follows:
US$ million equivalent
Construction of the Afgoi-Baidoa Road               9.66
Contingencies (quantities 10%;
price escalation 2%)                1.14     10-80
Less
1.  Funds available under Credit 74-SO              8.oo
2.  Funds being provided by the Government         0.50      8.50
Balance                2.30



The estimates are based on a priced contract; an amount of about 10 percent
has been included to cover changes in physical quantities and a further 2
percent for price escalation; these are considered reasonable.
C. Execution of the Project
2.05      The consortium which, in January 1968, was awarded the contract
for constructing the Afgoi-Baidoa Road, is assembling men and equipment
near Afgoi and will commence construction in June, after the rains. The
time allowed for construction is 36 months so the road is expected to be
completed early in 1971. An extension will be required to the Closing Date
of Credit 74-SO which is June 30, 1969; and a ne-T date, December 31, 1970,
is proposed.
D. Finance
2.06      Under the existing plan for financing the construction of the
Afgoi-Baidoa Road, the full costs of construction are to be shared between
IDA and FED, with IDA providing 78 percent and FED providing 22 percent
of the costs; the Government participates by remitting customs dues on all
materials and equipment used in constructing the road. It is proposed that
a new financing plan be agreed upon whereby the Association and FED conti-
nue to share the cost of construction on the existing basis up to the agreed
figure of US$8 million equivalent as envisaged in the terms of the existing
plan (see Table). Any costs in excess of US$8 million equivalent, but not
exceeding a total construction cost of US$10.8 million equivalbnt, should
be shared betuoon the Association and the Government with the latter provi-
ding US$0.5 million equivalent of those costs and the Association providing
the balance. The Government confirmed its undertaking to provide such
funds; since estimates are based upon firm bids and include adequate con-
tingencies, no cost over runs are anticipated.
E. Disbursement
2.07      Annual overall disbursements to be financed by the Association
are estimated to be:
Disbursement
US$ million equivalent
1968   1969   1970   1971   TOTAL
Credit 74-SO                  1.50   3,00   1.70    0      6.20
Supplementary Credit            0      0    1.80   0.50    2.30



- 9 -
The supplementary credit for construction will not be drawn upon until
late in 1970 when Credit 74-So is expected to be fully disbursed.
Disbursements for road construction under this credit will be made in
proportion to the relative contributions of the Government (about 18
percent) and IDA (about 82 percent).



- 10 -
3. ECOI4OMIC JUSTIFICATION
3.01      The economic justification for the construction of the Afgoi-
Baidoa Road was reassessed in April 1968 in the light of the revised
alignment, higher cost estimates, new traffic data and estimates of
vehicle operating costs.   A paved road already exists between Mogadishu,
with a population of about 100,000, and Afgoi, a small town of about
5,000, around which are gromn most of the vegetables supplied to the cap-
ital.   The new paved road will pass through Uanle Uen (population 5,000)
and Bur Acaba (15,000) and terminate at Baidoa (20,000).    The area tra-
versed by the road is the most important grain-growiing area in the country,
accounting for two-thirds of the country's crop land and producing some
100,000-120,000 tons of sorghum in a normal year.   Of this quantity, about
40,000-50,000 tons are marketed and transported to MSogadishu and other urban
centers in the area.
3.02      At present the combination of bad roads, inadequate modern
storage facilities and the coincidence of the rainy season with the
harvesting period, leads to substantial losses to the farmers in the
quantities of grain they are able to sell and/or the prices they get.
Currently, storage facilities for a total of 10,000 tons of sorghum are
either under construction or planned for construction in the next 2 or
3 years and will be located in Mbgadishu, Bur Acaba and Baidoa.    It is
expected that the completion of the road will help the farmers to take
full advantage of the storage facilities and reduce losses from poor
storage and distress sales.
3.03      In addition to its agricultural importance, the area has pro-
mise of mineral resources.   High grade uranium ore has been found in an
area 60 km southwest of Bur Acaba, and by the end of 1968, it will be
known whether sufficient ore exists for commercial operation.    Also,
about 170 million tons of iron ore with 40 percent ferrous content have
been located in the area; the ore can be beneficiated to produce a
concentrate.   The proposed paved road will facilitate exploration and
possible exploitation of the uranium and/or iron ore resources.
3.04      To be conservative, the economic benefits of the proposed road
construction have been taken as those accruing to the present traffic
based primarily on the agricultural activities of the region and its
normal growth, assumed at 5 percent a year.    During a week's traffic
count in August 1967, the volume of traffic on the road varied from about
100 on the Afgoi-Uanle Uen section to 50 on the rest of the road. About
10 percent were passenger vehicles, 50 percent trucks and 40 percent truck-
trailer combinations.   The quantifiable benefits of the project, which are
reductions in vehicle operating costs, arise from improvement of the road
surface and from a reduction in travel distance of 16 km, in the Uanle Uen-
Bur Acaba section.   These directly measurable benefits, discounted over



- l1 -
the useful economic life of 20 years, yield a return of about 10 percent.
This compares with the return of 7 to 8 percent originally expected when
the project was first approved and is satisfactory.
3.05      To test the sensitivity of the revised estimate, the economic
return was recalculated for different rates of traffic growth, ranging
from no growth in traffic to a 10 percent annual growth. The results
showed rates of return ranging from 4 percent for the assumption of no
growth in traffic to over 15 percent for the 10 percent assumption. For
annual traffic growth rates of 3 percent or above, returns of 8 percent
and over can be expected.
3.06      In addition to these measurable benefits, the new road will eli-
minate losses presently sustained by the farmers on account of difficulty
of movements during the rainy season, when the present earth road is closed
for a total of about 10 weeks in a year on the average.    These, however,
could not be estimated owing to the scarcity of reliable data.   The incon-
venience and costs of such closing of the road have also had to be ignored.
As indicated above, possible benefits from mineral traffic were not con-
sidered.
3.07      The proposed all-weather road would facilitate current and planned
governmental activities in the area, especially for rural development works.
It would also make the supply of some farm inputs (e.g. seeds and fertilizers)
as well as consumer goods needed by farmers both easier and cheaper. This
will both facilitate and encourage the export of farm produce and animals
from the region.   A year-round road connection is a necessary pre-condition
for successful development activities.



- 12 -
4. CONCLUSIONS AND RECaMGENDATIONS
4.01      The project is technically sound.  The cost estimate is based
on a recently awarded contract; it includes an adequate allowance for
contingencies and is considered realistic. Construction is being carried
out by a joint venture selected on the basis of international competitive
bidding procedures and is being supervised by consulting engineers accept-
able to, and under terms approved by, the Association.
4.02      The Afgoi-Baidoa Road will provide all-weather access to an area
of high agricultural potential and will link that area with Mogadishu, the
principal port in the country. The project provides a return of about 10
percent on investment, whidhis slightly higher than was expected under the
original credit, 74-so.
4.o3      The project provides a suitable basis for a supplementary credit
of US$2.3 million equivalent to the Government of Somalia.
June 13, 1968



TABLE
SOMALIL
SUPPLEMENTARY HIGHWAY CREDIT
Credit 74-SO - Estimated Costs
The originally estimated project cost (including a contingency
allowance) are summarized below:
U$ Million
Local       Foreign       Total
A. Road Construction and Engineering
1.  Afgoi-Baidoa Road and feeder          2,2         5.8           8.0
2. Final engineering and supervision      0.1         0.5           o.6
Sub-total A         2.3         6.3           8.6
B. Maintenance Ecquipment and Offices
1.  Maintenance Equipment and Materials    -          2.50          2.50
2. Offices for Highway Section            0.10                      0.25
Sub-total B        0.10        2.65          2.75
C.  Technical Assistance Program
1. Highway Management Consultants         o.65        1.60          2.25
2.  Investment Coordination Study         0.02        0.11          0.13
3. Feasibility Studies of new roads       0.03        0.19          0.22
4. Technical Training                      -          0.25          0.25
Sub-total C        0.70        2.15          2.85
Project Total      310       I1.10         14.20
Financing:                                US$ Million Equivalent
Item                IDA       FED        UNSF       GOVT.      Total
A. Road Construction
1) Afgoi-Baidoa and
Feeder              6.2 (78%)   1.8 (22%)      -          -      8.0 (100%;
2) Engineering and
Supervision             -       0.6            -          -      0.6
B. Maintenance Equipment
and offices                -       2.75           -          -      2.75
C. Technical Assistance        -        -           2.15       0.70     2.85
6.20 (44%) 5.15 (36%)   2.15 (15%) 0.70 (5%)14.20(100l



SOMALIA: PRESENT ORGANIZATION OF MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
|  MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS       l
DIRECTOR GENERAL
DEPARTMENT |     ENGIEERING       ENGINEERING       AND LAND        AND MAPPING       DEPARTMENT
DEPARTMENT  ~DEPARTMENT       DEPARTMENT       DEPARTMENT       DEPARTMENT        DPRMN
DESIG               WOK              ROA             EOUIPMEN
SECTION  SECTION       ~~MAINTENANCESETO
R   E  6    J   0      S
HARGEtSA      AO         MIGIURTINIA  MOUGH         HIRAN       BENADIR     ALTO JUBA    BASSO JUBA
April, 1968                                                                                         IBRD- 3828



GULF OF ADEN
DIJIBOUTI
-- .Marje/ \ * \blvioKarinb
\  B//et Tug  D   ,                   ( , Meledin
\-" ~ ~ ,e, W  \Sheik   8   UlJ A  
*            :.~Sai  / -,Ke 
Hargeisa        Buro _ur
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
ti ~  ~    _.1~j  * I'(.'                            @      J
1._ r-Y- 
G                                  . Giohar
h. r/ Gioharaeb              4
Bardera    isr.               Bad
Audegle     Ue
~'  P~0OGAISU          REPUBLIC OF SOMALIA
Sc jalt9~~  ~HIGHWAY SYSTEM
4,                   ~~~~~~~~~~International boundary
z                                                        ~~~~~~~~~Regional boundary
Liboo  Afmadu '-  ,~-                                Bituminous surfaced roads
Good condition
GelsPrincipal dry AT                         Poor condition
EUAO                                   farming areas in s    or A u diti
BA  S                                 Inter-River basin  ......  Under construction
j Li Ubo   AmGravel/earth surfaced roads
/ Chisimaio                                    Project Roads
..... Original location  Cntuto
t   /                                                     }~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~______  Construction
__________ New  location
0      100    20d    300    400 KM
y $ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Main sea ports
Main airports,all weather
MAY 1968                                                                       IBRD 1340R4



