RESTRICTED
FILE      COPY                                Report No. P-409
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SOMALIA
FOR A
ROAD PROJECT
December 14, 1964



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPME1U ASSOCIATION
IEPORT AND RECOiNE-10DATIOIZ OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIWE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEvELOPT1ENT CREDIT TO TUE PEPUBLIC OF SOIriLIA
FOR A ROAD PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and reco-maendatiors on a proposed
development credit in the amount of $6.2 ridllion, or its equivalent in
other currencies, to the Republic of Somalia to help finance a road project,
PP'RT I - HTSTORICAL
2.       In July 1963, the Goverlnment of Somalia reouestied the Association
to assist in financing the construction of an a'.-iweather road from Afgoi
to Baidoa (approximately 200 kms).  An appraisal mission which visited
Somalia in September 1964 concluded that the road had high economic priority.
At the same time, the mission recommended that new road construction should
not be undertaken before Somalia had taken action to set up an effective
highwvay department, to equip it with the necessary m.aintenance facilities
and machinery and to assure it of adequate skilled staff. The Government
agreed with these conclusions; the proposed project would provide for their
implementation.
3.       The total estimated cost of the project is $1h4.2 million.  It was
recognized from the beginning that Somalia could make at best a very minor
financial contribution. Since the financing reqvired wsas considerably more
than could reasona'oly be made available from IDA funds for Somalia at this
times, the Association, in full agreement with Somalia, sought partners in
financing the protect. Both the European Development Fund (FED) of the
European Economic CoTmmunity and the U.N. Special Fund (UNgSF) showed them-
selves ready to join with the Association and negotiations among the various
parties took place in Brussels in the middle of NovemDer.
4.       The proposed IDA credit would be the first Bank/IDA lending to
Somalia.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
5.       The proposed credit would have the following characteristics:
Borrower:                 Republic of Somalia
Credit Amount:            The equivalent, in various currencies,
of $6.2 million.



-2 -
Prose:                     To finance part of the construction
cost of the Afgoi-Baidoa road (200
1kms) and a feeder road to Uanle Uen
(20 kms)0
Terms and Amortization:    50 years with no amortization for the
first ten years. Repayment to be in
80 ins tai2rrnents, 1/2 of lo of the
principal amount to be repaid semi-
annually beginning June 1, 1975. and
ending December 1, 1984, and 1-1/2'
semi-annually thereafter to December 1,
20Th
Service Charge on Credit. 3/4 of 1% per annum on the amount with-
drawm and outstanding, payable semi-
annually.
PART III - APPRAISAL OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
The Project
6.      A report, "Appraisal of a Highway Project - Somaliall (TO-431a) is
attached (No, 1).
7.      The proposed project is conceived as a comprehensive approach to
road problems in Somalia where road development is still at a very early
stage. Although the Association is helping to finance only one part of the
project. it would be prime coordinator in the technical control and super-
vision of the whole operation. The project is made up as follows:
Part A
A.1): The construction of a 200-km two-lane, all-weather
road from Afgoi to Baidoa and a 20-km feeder to Uanle Uen,
The proposed road would be built to minimum design standards
consistent with sound engineering practices.
There is already a road from Mogadiscio, capital
and principal port of Somalia, to Baidoa, center of a major
agricultural region, but only the first 30 kms, up to Afgoi,
are open to traffic the year round. The remaining 225 kms is
little more than a poorly-aligned earth track which is im-
passable to traffic during the rainy seasons. The project
road would follow a technically more satisfactory alignment
and would be about 25 km shorter. Since the new road would
by-pass the important trading center of Uanle Uen, it is
proposed to connect Uanle Uen to the main road by a 20-km



low-cost feeder road. The estimated cost of ccnstruction of
the prcposed main road and feeder road is $8.0 million; to
be financed as to $6.2 million by the proposed developmnent
credit and as to $1e8 millicn frorn a proposed FED grant.
FED has agreed that the construction coiitract would be
awarded on the basis of fully international cornpotitive
bidding,
A.2):  Final en__eerin    and supervision of construction.
The estimatedJ5ost-of about S0.6 mrllioli would be financed
entirely by FED as a grant. F1i3D will make $0G3 million available
imaediately out of technical assistance funds to allow final
engineering work to start without delay, the balance becoming
available in 3 to 4 months as part of a larger FED grant.
Part B
EquPppina the Highway Section. Maintenance equipment
and other facilities of the Highway Section are wholly in-
adequate and roads are very poorly maintained;, if maintained
at all. To establish an effective highway organization within
the Ministry of Public Works, it is proposed -o finance the
purchase of maintenance equipment, to provide and equip field
workshops, to raake available an initial stock of materials and
spare parts and to build adequate headquarters offices. The
estimated cost of $2.75 million would be financed entirely
from the proposed FED grant. FED would consult with the
Association in all technical aspects of this part of the
project, but would follow its own procedures for disbursement
and procurement (limited to countries in the Common Iarket).
Part C
Technical assistance in staffing and operation of the
Highway Section for a period of 4-5 years by experts drawn
from a consulting engineering firm, training of Somali engineers
and road maintenance staff, feasibility studies of new roads and
a study to coordinate transportation investment. The objective
is to enable Somalia to derive full benefit from its road net-
work and to plan rationally future investment in road and other
modes of transportation. The estimated cost of this part of
the project is $2085 million, of which the UNSF would finance
$2,15 million and the Somali Government would contribute $0.7
million. The Bank would be the Executing Agency.
8.      The proposed contribution of each of the four parties can be
summarized as follows:



(I'S $ million equivalent)
Part A      Part B      Part C      Total
Somalia                   _           -          0,70       0.70
UNS,                      -           -          2.15       2.15
FED - Techrical
Assistance         00          -            -        0O3
Development Grant   2.1        2.75                   4.85
IDA Credit                62          -                     6.2
8,6        2^75        2,85      14,20
9.      If the proposed development credit is approved, it is expected
that a formal decision on the FED grant would be taken at the beginning
of i^arch 1965  I'he UNTSFI' Governing Council is expected to consider the
proposed technical assistance prograrm during its January 1965 meeting0
10.     The project road would pass through the most important dry farming
area of the country, The Governnuent gives deve'lopmnent of farming in the
region high priority, particulary in view of the desirability of eliLminating
the present need to import som.e 30,000 tons of cereals a year.  Poor trainspor-
tation facilities between Baidoa and its principal market, !ogadiscio, have
tended to inhibit t'ne development of agricultural prcduction in the Baidoa
region.
l1.     The economic benefits resulting from the new rcad wh-ch are most
easily quantifiable, i.e., savings in vehicle onerating costs3 represent,
on a conservative basis, a 7-8 return on the investment over tne life of
the road,  In addition, the expected stimulus to agricultural production,
the possib:Le exploitation of mLineral resources on the line of the road,
together with the administrative and social advantages which cannot be
quantified, would provide significant additional benefits of the proposed
investment,
The Econonry
12.     A report, "The Economy of Somalia" (AF-19a) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 10, 196h4 There have been no significant
changes in the economic position since that report was prepared.
13.     Somalia continues to rely heavily on bananas, which br-ng in about
$12 million a yearg or nearly half of all exports.  Thie production of
bananas has more than tripled within the last decade; production could be



increased still furthler without difficulty if markets allowed.  At present
bananas are- sold in Italy lnder prefereltial arrangements which are due to
end in 1965. but it is understood that, if so requested by the Governn.nts
o0f Somalia and Italy, the Common. Ma:'ket would favorably consider extending
the present arrangements for a few niore years, During the last fewr years
the c.i,f. price of Somali bananas landed in Ttalian ports has been reduced
byv about 25%. The aovearrment is fo'lowing a vigorous prograim to reduce
costo furthler by be'i;cr uce of fertilizers, efficient ir'igation,2 intro-
duction of a new vari.e'y of bananas (which is less perishable), improve-
munt in packaging, better road transportation and improvement in port
facilities,  The Govermcient is also exploring possible markets for bananas
in the ?1iddle East, Another favorable trend in recent years has been the
increase in e:-po.ts of livestock; from $4 million in 1958 to $6 million in
1260 and about $10 millJon in 1963. There is scope for furthler increase
in the export of livestock) again mainly to iiddle Eastern countries.
14.      Prospects for groundnuts, oil seeds, vegetables and citrus are
being investigated under a UNSF project,, while EEC is financing an riagri-
ciQtura. diversification study," Tentative conclusions point to thle
nossibility that with modest improvements in marketing facilities, In
farming techniques and in transportation facilities (the most important
being the project road from Afgoi to Baidoa), Somalia should become self-
sufficient in staple food within the next few years and begin to see a
greater variety in its exports,
i5.     W.hereas the long-term prosuects for economic development are not
d-iscouragingP Somalia faces considerable currenti difficulties. Somalia
nas received external budget support for many years but since independence
.he Government has mado strenuous efforts to increase domestic revenues
and to hold increases in current expenditures within bounds. The current
dcficit was reduced from $9 million in 1961 to $4 million in 1963 and is
estimated at a little over $2 million in 196X) the new Government having
xrastically pruned requests from individual 1iinistries. The Government
.s also seriously considering revising the present tax structure and
introducing new taxes.
i6.      Budget support from Italy for 1963 and 1964 has been delayed, but
is now expected to be forthcoming beginning by Nlarch 1965c  This has created
R temporary budgetary gap of over $7 million, or almost one-third of domestic
;evenues and has led to a virtual depletion of free reserves and an increase
Ln short-term foreign liabilities, in addition to a $407 million drawing from
she II11F. There has been marked over-all expansion in bank credit to the
t,overnment and the Government is considering applying to the IiF for a new
stand-by.
17.      Even on the most favorable assumptions, the budgetary and balance
of payments situation will continue to be a major preoccupation of the
Government for at least several years to come. It is evident that invest-
ment finance should be in the form of grants or IDA-type credits.



- 6 -
PART IV - IEGAL INSTRFTh.E\TS AND AUTHORITY
18.     The draft Developmenlt Credit Agreement, which has been circulated
separately to the Executive Directors along with the draft A.dministration
Agreement between Somalia, the European Economic Co=mmunity and the Associ-
ation, follows the gensral pattern of agreements for sim.ilar projects,
except that:
(a) The due execution and effectiveness of the Adminis-
tration Agreement, and of the agreements between FED
and Somalia and the UNSF and Somalia for financing,
respectively, Parts Ael and B and Part C of the project,
are made conditions for the effectiveness of the De-
velopment Credit Agreement (Section 6.01, Development
Crediv Agreement);
(b) Any suspension of Somalia's right to utilize the fu-nds
of FED or of the UNSF and any breach by it of the
Administration Agreement are made events of default
under Article 5.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.
19.     The draft Administration Agreement provides the machinery for
withdrawals for Part A.l, contains general covenants ensuring cooperation
and exchanges of information among the three parties in respect of the
entire project, and confirms that the Association would act as prime
coordinator in dealing with Somalia. Since the financing provided by FED
would be in the form of a grant, FED would retire from the project ornce its
grant has been fully disbursed and its agreement with Somalia fully carried
out (Section 5.01 of the draft Administration Agreement).
PART V - COIIPLIANCE TJITH ARTICLES OF AG&EEIINT
20.     I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
PART VI - RECOIMENDATIONS
21.     I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
"RESOLVED:
"That the Association shall grant a development credit
to the Republic of Somalia in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to six million two hundred thousand dollars
($6,200,000), to mature on or prior to December 1, 2014, to
bear a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one



- 7 -
percent (3/4 of 1') per annum, and to be upon other terms
and conditions substantielly in accordance with the terms
and conditions set forth in the form of Development Credit
Agreement (Road Project) between the Repub'lic of Somalia
and the Interniational Development Association and in the
form of Admiinistration Agreement (Road Project) between
the Repub-lic o.l Soma'.ia, the European Ecoinomic Community
and the International Development Association, which have
been presented to this meeting."t
Geor,ge D. Woods
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
December 14, 1964



