RESTRICTED
Report No. P-611
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT
TO THE SOMALI REPUBLIC
FOR A
HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
June 12, 1968



INTERUqATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Report and Recommendation of the President
to the Executive Directors on a Proposed
Supplementary Credit to the Somali Republic
for a Highwray Construction Project
1.      I submit herewith the following report and recommendation on a
proposed supplementary credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to US $2.3 million to the  Somali Republic    to furnish a portion of the
additional funds required to complete the construction of the Afgoi-Baidoa
road.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.      In March 1965, IDA made a credit to Somalia (7h-SO) for $6.2 million
for financing a road project in participation with FED and UNDP. This
credit is the only Bank Group lending to date in Somalia. The composition
of the original financing of the project is tabulated below:
Total      IDA         FED      UNDP    Somalia
A. Afgoi-Baidoa Road
1)  Construction        8.03(100%) 6.20(77.5%) 1.80(22.5%)
2)  Engineering and
supervision        o.60                   o.60
B. Maintenance Equipment
and Highway Depart-
ment Offices            2.75                    2.75
C. Technical Assistance
(Organization, staffing
and operation of High-
way Dept., technical
training, feasibility
studies for two roads
and a reconnaissance
study of Somalia's
transportation invest-
ment requirements.)     2.85                             2.15      0.70
14.20(loo%) 6.20(44%) 5.15(36%) 2.15(15%) 0.70(5%)
3.      Due to unforeseen difficulties in completing the approval of the
contractual arrangements with the consulting engineers, a realignment of
the road, and unsatisfactory progress by the consultants in design and
specifications, it was not possible to invite bids for the construction



- 2 -
of the Afgoi-Baidoa road until late March 1967. When the bids were opened
in July, the lowest bid (from a consortium of German, British and Italian
contractors) was for the equivalent of about US $10.5 million. A detailed
review of bids and prices was then undertaken to determine whether any
economies were possible to reduce the cost of construction. By extending
the period of construction from 26 months to 36 months, by making certain
modifications in bridge design, and omitting for the time being certain non-
essential items (such as camel paths and watering holes, and grassing of side
slopes) the cost was reduced to about $9.7 million. Any further cuts would
reduce standards below the minimum necessary for the expected conditions of
traffic. The inclusion of a 12% contingency allowance has brought the total
cost of construction to $10.8 million, which is $2.8 million in excess of the
costs as estimated in the appraisal report for the original credit (TO-431b,
dated December 10, 1964).  In addition, $300,000 more will be required for
the supervision of construction.
4.      Pursuant to Section 4.01(f) of the Credit Agreement, the Government
of Somalia has the obligation to make available, at all times, funds and
other resources that shall be required for carrying out the project.
However, given the very strained financial situation of the Somali Govern-
ment, it was considered unrealistic to expect the Government to provide more
than $500,000 toward meeting the additional cost. FED informed IDA that it
was unable to provide any additional funds, but that it would be prepared to
cover the $300,000 additional costs of supervision by transferring this
amount from the road maintenance equipment category. Fortunately, such a
transfer would not impair Somalia's road maintenance efforts since facilities
for renting equipment exist up to this value.
5.      Under these circumstances and in order to avoid further delay in
the award of the construction contract, the Association agreed to consider
a supplementary credit of $2.3 million, which together with a $500,000
Government contribution, would cover the new estimate of road construction
costs. Formal negotiations were concluded on this basis in Mogadiscio in
the first half of June, 1968.
6.      The proposed credit would be the second credit to Somalia and would
increase the total IDA financing in Somalia to $8.5 million. Somalia has
not received any financing from the Bank or IFC. As of May 31, 1968 no
disbursements had been made under Credit 74-S0; the main construction
contract was signed in early January 1968, mobilization is underway, and
construction is expected to start in June/July 1968, after the end of the
rainy season.
7.      An appraisal report is being prepared regarding a $560,000 IDA
credit for final engineering and technical assistance for the Port of
Mogadiscio. This is the only other Somali project likely to be forthcoming
this year. In late 1969 or early 1970, it is expected that a project for
the construction of the port will be ready for consideration, and projects
for further road construction and agricultural development are also possibi-
lities for 1970.



-3-
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT -
8.      Borrower:               The Somali Republic
Amount:                 $2.3 million equivalent in various currencies.
Purpose:                To meet part of the additional cost required
for the construction of the Afgoi-Baidoa
road, for which finance was provided
previously by FED and by IDA (Credit 74-SO).
Amortization:           50 years, including 10-year period of grace
in semi-annual installments beginiing June 1,
1978, and ending December 1, 2018.
Service Charge:         3/4 of 1% of the principal amount of the
credit disbursed and outstanding.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.      A report of the project entitled "Somalia - Appraisal of a Supple-
mentary Credi-t for Highway Construction" (TO-655a) is attached.
10.     The project will provide for the completion of construction of a
two-lane bitumen surfaced road between Afgoi and Baidoa. The road will
provide all-weather access to an area of considerable agricultural potential,
the development of which is handicapped by inadequate access. The present
road is closed to traffic, due to water logging, for two to four months
per year.
11.     The total cost of construction, including contingencies, is now
estimated at $10.8 million. On the basis of the revised financial plan,
IDA would finance $8.5 million, FED $1.8 million, and the Somali Government
$500,000; any eventual savings would accrue to the benefit of IDA and Somalia
in proportion to their respective contributions to the financing of the
additional cost. In such an eventuality appropriate portion of the supple-
mentary credit would be cancelled. Disbursements from the present credit
would begin only after the amount available under Credit 74-SO has been fuilly
withdrawn. The closing date under Credit 74-SO is being extended to
December 31, 1970 and a closing date of December 31, 1971 is being set for
the proposed Supplementary Credit.
12.     Despite the increased cost, the road is expected to yield a return
of about 10 per cent calculated on the basis of recent traffic estimates.
This compares with the return of 8 per cent expected in 1965 when the
project was first approved.



- 4 -
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS A1qD AUTHORITY
13.     The Supplementary Development Credit Agreement between the Somali
Republic and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The agreement would
incorporate by reference the covenants agreed under the first Credit Agree-
ment for this project.
14.     The development credit agreement will be submitted for ratification
to the Parliament of Somalia before its effective date.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
15.     A report on "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Somalia"
(AF-64a, dated October 2, 1967) was circulated to the Executive Directors
on October 12, 1967 (R67-155). Somalia's economic performance has improved
in the past few years. Production awd handling costs of bananas have been
reduced with Government assistance and it is expected that the products will
be competitive in the Italian market even when the trade preference there
ceases. The exports of livestock and related products have shown a remark-
able growith since 1960, and in 1966 surpassed that of bananas.  Somalia has
respected the fiscal and moneta-y commitments made under a series of IMF
stand-by arrangements since 1964, when an excessive credit expansion had
created balance of payments difficulties and a sharp fall in exchange
reserves; by the end of 1966 both external and internal equilibrium were
restored.  Somalia is still dependent on budgetary support from Italy;
however, in recent years this dependence has declined in percentage of
budgetary expenditures. Expenditures on defense have so far been high,
about one-third of the budget, but the recent improvement of relationships
with Kenya and Ethiopia may reduce the pressure for such outlays.
16.     The adjustment of the Somali economy to the closure of the Suez
Canal has been much better than first expected. The first three months
after the blocking of the Canal were difficult, but by October new shipping
schedules were in effect and Somalia's international trade became normal.
In the initial period of adjustment earnings were affected due to lower
banana prices, but this difficulty was quickly overcome and foreign exchange
earnings and Government revenue receipts were restored to their previous
levels. Italy has agreed to extend its preferential treatment for Somali
bananas until the end of 1969. The Somali banana exporters now charter
bigger and faster ships which reach Italian markets by going around the
Cape of Good Hope, taking only about two days more than the smaller and
older ships took going through Suez. Shipping costs have not increased
and the quality of delivered bananas has improved due to better refrigeration
If the new ships continue to be used after the reopening of the Canal a
reduction in unit freight costs is expected. Livestock exports are also
doing well. The preliminary balance of payments for 1967 shows only a small
deficit. Due to the favorable export developments and the effort of the
Government to restrain expenditures, it is estimated that the budget deficit
for 1967 did not exceed the originally expected level.



17.     Somalia's poverty and economic performance justify further IDA
assistance, and in view of her difficult financial situation the financing
of a high proportion (90-100%) of project costs from external sources
seems justified.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREMEANT
18.     I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
19.     I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO. IDA
Approval of Development Credit to the
Somali Republic in an amount equivalent
to US $2,300,000
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development
credit to The Somali Republic in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to Two Million Three Hundred Thousand
United States dollars (US $2,300,000) to mature on and prior
to December 1, 2018, to bear a service charge at the rate
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, and
to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be
substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions
set forth in the form of Development Credit Agreement (Road
Project - Supplementary) between The Somali Republic and the
Association which has been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Durke Knapp
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
June 12, 1968



