                                Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                 Report No: ICR00003184



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-42050 TF-56841)

                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF
                             SDR46.2 MILLION
                           (U$67.5 EQUIVALENT)

                                     AND A

                                     GRANT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF
                              US$25.3 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                     FOR AN

      EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                June 27, 2014




Human Development Sector/Education
Indonesia Country Department
East Asia and Pacific Region



                                       i
                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective June 27, 2014)

                                 Currency Unit = IDR
                                IDR 12, 099.21 = US$1
                               IDR 1.00 = US$0.08265

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 – December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BAN-PT   National Accreditation Board         IKIP       Teaching Training Institute
         for Higher Education
BAPPENAS Agency for National                  IG         Inspectorate General
         Development Planning
BPS      Badan Pusat Statistik or             KB         Kelompok Bermain or
         Bureau of Statistics                            Playgroup
BSNP     Board of National Standards of       KDP        Decamatan Development
         Education                                       Project
CDD      Community Driven                     MDG        Millenium Development
         Development                                     Goals
CDW      Child Development Worker             MOEC       Ministry of Education and
                                                         Culture
CT          Community Teams                   MOF        Ministry of Finance
CPICU       Central Project Implementing      NEST       National Early Childhood
            and Coordinating Unit                        Specialist Team
CSO         Civil Society Organization        NGO        Non-Governmental
                                                         Organization or Civil Society
                                                         and Local Organization
DESP-TF     Dutch Education Support Trust     NMC        National Management
            Fund-World Bank                              Consultant
            administered
DDTK        Child Growth and                  PAUD       Pendidikan Anak Usia Dini or
            Development                                  Early Childhood Directorate
DGHE        Directorate General of Higher     Perda      Local Government’s
            Education                                    Regulation
DGNFE       Directorate General of Non        POM        Project Operational Manual
            Formal Education
DGQITEP     Directorate General of Quality    PPCU       Provincial Project
            Improvement of Teacher and                   Coordinating Unit
            Education Personnel
DIPA        Government’s Annual Budget        P2TK       Teachers and Education
                                                         Personnel Directorate
DPIU        District Project Implementing     RA         Raudhatul Afthal or Islamic
            Unit                                         Kindergarten

                                             ii
ECED      Early Childhood Education and    RENSTRA   Medium Term Planning
          Development
ECEDP     Early Childhood Education and    RMC       Regional Management
          Development Project, the                   Consultant
          Project
ECED-TF   ECED Netherlands Trust Fund      RPJM      Medium Term Development
          – Government administered                  Plan
EDI       Early Development Instrument     SK        Surat Keputusan or Decree
          (“School Readiness”)
EFA       Education for All                SUSENAS   National Socio Economic
                                                     Survey
IFR       Interim Financial Report         TK        Taman Kanak-Kanak or
                                                     Kindergarten
GOI       Government of Indonesia          Tupoksi   Organization roles and
                                                     function




                       Vice President: Axel van Trotsenburg
                     Country Director: Rodrigo A. Chaves
                      Sector Manager: Luis Benveniste
                 Project Team Leader: Rosfita Roesli
                    ICR Team Leader: Rosfita Roesli
                 ICR Primary Author: Suzana Nagele de Campos Abbott




                                          iii
                                        INDONESIA
                      Early Childhood Education and Development Project



                                                       CONTENTS




Data Sheet

  A. Basic Information....................................................................................................... v
  B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................... v
  C. Ratings Summary ...................................................................................................... vi
  D. Sector and Theme Codes .......................................................................................... vi
  E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................. vii
  F. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................... vii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... x
  H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................. x
  I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. xi

  1.    Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................ 1
  2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................ 6
  3.    Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................... 15
  4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .................................................. 21
  5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................... 23
  6.    Lessons Learned ................................................................................................. 25
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 26
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 27
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 28
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 40
  Annex 4: Project Impact Evaluation ............................................................................. 42
  Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 62
  Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 64
  Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 65
  Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 66
  Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 75
  Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 76
  MAP




                                                                iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Early Childhood
Country:                Indonesia                Project Name:           Education and
                                                                         Development Project
                                                                         IDA-42050,TF-
Project ID:             P089479                  L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                         53814 1,TF-56841
ICR Date:               06/16/2014               ICR Type:               Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:               INDONESIA
Original Total
                        XDR 46.20M               Disbursed Amount:       USD 93.44M 2
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 92.8M 3
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Education and Culture
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: Netherland Minister of Foreign Affairs and
Development Cooperation

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
       Process            Date              Process          Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        07/06/2005     Effectiveness:          12/11/2006         12/11/2006
                                                                                 05/15/2012
Appraisal:             03/14/2006     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                 05/15/2013
Approval:              06/27/2006     Mid-term Review:        02/01/2011         08/02/2011
                                      Closing:                12/31/2013         12/31/2013




1
    TF 53814 was reported under separate GRM
2
  This figure reflects total disbursement under the project: IDA Grant 42050 (USD 70.04M) and
Dutch TF 056841 (USD 23.40M). There were exchange rate gains to the SDR:USD exchange
rate
3
 This figure reflects the total funds made available for the project: IDA Grant 42050 (67.50M)
and Dutch TF 056841 (USD 25.30)


                                                 v
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Substantial
Bank Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                  Rating
     Performance                                 (if any) 4
 Potential Problem Project                    Quality at Entry
                           Yes
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                           Yes
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original       Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 5               5
Pre-primary education                                            90           90
Sub-national government administration                            5               5


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Child health                                                     17           17
Decentralization                                                 17           17



4
 QALP-2 was initiated in late 2009 and completed in July 14, 2010. The rating given for
Quality of Design was 2 (Satisfactory/ Likely) and Quality of Supervision was 3
(Moderately Satisfactory/ Likely)


                                             vi
Education for all                                                 33                 33
Participation and civic engagement                                17                 17
Rural services and infrastructure                                 16                 16

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Axel van Trotsenburg               Jeffrey Gutman
Country Director:         Rodrigo A. Chaves                  Andrew D. Steer
Sector Manager:           Luis Benveniste                    Christopher J. Thomas
Project Team Leader:      Rosfita Roesli                     Mae Chu Chang
ICR Team Leader:          Rosfita Roesli
ICR Primary Author:       Suzana Nagele de Campos Abbott

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the project is to improve poor children's overall
development and readiness for further education, within a sustainable quality ECED
system.

To achieve this objective, the project will: (i) increase poor communities' capacity to
engage in participatory planning that will result in new or improved ECED services for
their children and families (see Component 1); (ii) prepare the foundation for a
sustainable ECED system through budgetary commitments from participating districts,
establishment of a national quality assurance and professional development system, and
district capacity building (see Component 2); (iii) ensure continuous improvement of
service delivery and system building through establishing effective project management,
and monitoring and evaluation (see Component 3).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target         Completion or
                                              documents)          Values          Target Years
                Increase in Early Development Instrument (EDI) scores of children entering
                kindergarten or 1st grade of primary school (stated as declines in percent of
Indicator 1 :
                children vulnerable on each domain). Values are for 4 year old cohort from 2009
                and 2013 surveys
                * Physical: 18.5                                              * Physical: 7.9
Value
                * Social: 6.6                                                 * Social: 8.1
quantitative or                            N/A
                * Emotional: 35                                               * Emotional: 28.5
Qualitative)
                * Lang and cognitive:                                         * Lang and

                                              vii
                  88.2                                                       cognitive: 2.5
                  * Communication: 1.1                                       * Communication:
                                                                             1.1
Date achieved 04/01/2009                                                     05/01/2013
Comments        Vulnerability in child development declined especially in physical, emotional,
(incl. %        language and cognitive. Social slight increase. No change in communication
achievement) (already low). Detailed analysis is available in Annex 3.
                Improvement in children's development. Values are for 1 year old cohort of
Indicator 2 : children from 2009 and 2013 surveys. N/A corresponds to item beginning
                dropped at endline since cohort outgrew the development measures.
                                                                             Gross motor (out
                                                                             of 20): 19.9
                Gross motor (out of 20):                                     Fine Motor (out of
                13.7                                                         12): 11
                Fine Motor (out of 12):                                      Language (out of
                6.1                                                          26): 19.6
Value           Language (out of 5) 2.9,                                     Cognitive (out of
quantitative or Cognitive (out of 8): 4.4 N/A                                8): N/A
Qualitative)    Socio emotional (out of                                      Socio emotional
                2) 1.6                                                       (out of 2) N/A

                  Receptive Language: 37.1                                 Receptive
                  Expressive language: 39.8                                Language:N/A
                                                                           Expressive
                                                                           language: N/A
Date achieved 06/01/2009                                                   05/01/2013
Comments      Using child development scores, outcomes improve in all domains and language.
(incl. %      2010 midline data shows increase: cognitive 7, receptive lang 85.5, expressive
achievement) lang 100. N/A corresponds to item beginning dropped.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                           Revised
                                               approval                       Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                             documents)                        Target Years
                  Percentage of parents/communities who have received information regarding
Indicator 1 :
                  ECED
Value
(quantitative     0.0                         80.00                           99.80
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007              12/31/2007                          09/12/2013
Comments          Target exceeded. Community facilitation successfully reached out parents/
(incl. %          communities. Once services are running, they also serve as demonstration to
achievement)      attract more parents.
                  Number of communities submitting an expression of interest to receive grants for
Indicator 2 :
                  ECED service development
Value
                  0.0                         6000                            5990
(quantitative

                                                 viii
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007                12/31/2007                         09/12/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Target 99 percent met. Target not met in a few remote villages
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number of block grants awarded to communities
Value
(quantitative     0.0                       6000                               5990
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007                 12/31/2007                        09/12/2013
Comments          Target 99 percent met. Block grants that were paid in 3 consecutive years,
(incl. %          supported village to establish and operate new services. Target not met in a few
achievement)      remote villages.
Indicator 4 :     Increased enrollment in ECED services by poor children
Value
(quantitative     0.0                       738000                             673162
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007                12/31/2007                         09/12/2013
Comments
                  Target 91% met. Last monitoring was done in mid-2013. New enrollment was
(incl. %
                  expected starting in Aug 2013.
achievement)
                  Percentage of targeted districts with regulations supporting ECED positions in
Indicator 5 :
                  district government
Value
(quantitative     0.0                       80.00                              96.10
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007               12/31/2007                            06/17/2013
Comments          Target exceeded by 20 percent. 48 out of 50 districts established permanent
(incl. %          ECED position and issued various district and even village regulations
achievement)      supporting ECED with long term sustainability effect.
Indicator 6 :     Development of standards and recognition of model ECED centers
Value
(quantitative     0.0                       36                                 25
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007                   12/31/2007                        09/12/2013
Comments          National standard for ECED services issued in 2008. Target for establishment of
(incl. %          model centers meeting the standard is met in 25 out of 36 target districts (69
achievement)      percent) due to district financial constraint in providing matching fund.
                  Percentage of targeted districts with qualified and functioning district training
Indicator 7 :
                  teams
Value
(quantitative   0.0                         80.00                                72.20
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2007                    12/31/2007                           09/12/2013
                Target 90 percent met. All of trainers trained all ECED teachers. However some
Comments
                trainers did not conduct follow-up supervision due to lack of transport support
(incl. %
                for visiting teachers in remote areas. District trainers continue to serve after
achievement)
                project closed.

                                                 ix
Indicator 8 :     Percentage of villages undertaking annual community assessments
Value
(quantitative     0.0                        80.00                                 80.90
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007                 12/31/2007                            09/12/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Target fully met.
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Percentage of villages submitting routine reports to districts
Value
(quantitative     0.0                        80.00                                 96.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007                 12/31/2007                            09/12/2013
Comments
                  Target exceeded. Communication between village (with project supported
(incl. %
                  services) and district improve.
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    Impact study undertaken
Value
                                             Impact survey                         Impact survey
(quantitative     N/A
                                             completed                             completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/01/2009                                                       05/01/2013
Comments
                  3 rounds of survey were completed in mid-2013 and preliminary result
(incl. %
                  disseminated
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                        Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                  DO                        IP                  Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                    (USD millions)
  1     09/07/2006           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                              0.00
  2     10/11/2007       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                       0.00
  3     12/01/2008           Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                       8.45
                                                      Moderately
  4     06/12/2009           Satisfactory                                                       19.89
                                                    Unsatisfactory
  5     02/02/2010           Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                        22.07
  6     01/15/2011           Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                        55.84
  7     12/19/2011           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                               64.75
  8     04/03/2012           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                               69.11
  9     12/26/2012           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                               70.16
 10     07/07/2013       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                        70.16
 11     12/29/2013       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                        70.23


H. Restructuring (if any)



                                                   x
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Reallocation of Financing
                                                     Proceeds. To allow more fund
 05/15/2012       N       S       S          69.78
                                                     for training and workshop under
                                                     Part A of the Project
                                                     Extension Closing date to
 05/15/2013               S       S          70.16
                                                     December 31, 2013




I. Disbursement Profile




The graphic represents disbursement profile of IDA Grants only.




                                          xi
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.     The SDR46.2 million credit for the Early Childhood Education and Development Project
(ECED) was approved by the Bank’s Board on June 27, 2006, signed on September 13, 2006.
The project became effective on December 11, 2006 and closed on December 31, 2013. The
Project was co-financed by a US$25.3 million grant from the Government of the Netherlands
Trust Fund (the ECED-TF), approved by the Bank acting as a Trustee of a Dutch Trust Fund
(TF) from the Netherlands Ministries of Foreign Affairs and of Development Cooperation. The
Government administered the ECED-TF. The closing date of the Loan and the Grant was
December 31, 2013.

1.1    Context at Appraisal.

2.     Background. At the time of project preparation in 2006, Indonesia ranked as a lower-
middle income country, with a gross domestic product (GDP) per capita of US$4,248. Indonesia
had restored its macroeconomic and financial stability and economic growth had increased from
3.8 percent in 2001 to 5.6 percent in 2005 while the percentage of the population living in
poverty in the period 1999-2007 had fallen from 27 to below 16 percent in 2007.

3.      Despite all of these achievements, Indonesia continued to under-perform compared with
its neighboring countries in terms of access to quality health, education and other basic services,
as reflected in the millennium development goals’ (MDGs) indicators. Indonesia’s centralized
development planning and service delivery systems had increased overall access to basic services
but have fallen short in ensuring quality.

4.      The Government of Indonesia (GOI, the Government) was committed to poverty
reduction, and had laid out a comprehensive medium-term poverty reduction strategy in its
Medium Term Development Plan (RPJM). The Government’s main approach towards poverty
reduction was to increase incomes by means of productivity improvements and decreasing
expenditures by means of lessening basic needs burden, such as education, health, and
infrastructure that eases and supports social economic activities.

5.       Decentralization of public service delivery had been an important element for effective
implementation of the poverty reduction strategy. Indonesia was one of the more decentralized
nations in the world. Districts were responsible for one-third of all government spending, and
half of the development budget. Most spending on education, health and infrastructure was
district based, and the districts employed three-quarters of the civil service. In 2006, 90 percent
of the Ministry of National Education’s (MOEC) budget had shifted from the central to the
district levels in the form of block grants channeled directly to the schools. Limited experience
and capacity at both the district and school levels to manage the funds and lack of knowledge
about effective inputs for quality education was a major constraining factor in the
implementation of the decentralization laws for the sector.

6.     Education was regarded as one of the most important elements in poverty reduction, and
early childhood development as an integral part. The education gap between the rich and the



                                                1
poor in Indonesia was pronounced, with poor children in poor districts exhibiting the lowest
outcomes. Specifically, research suggested that districts with higher levels of preschool
enrollment tended to have lower primary school dropout rates. More directly, children’s
participation in ECED programs appeared to improve their readiness for primary school
education through improving their overall development across domains. An evaluation of the
World Bank-financed Early Child Development Project found that children participating in the
project for two years had higher scores for school readiness at age 6 5. These positive effects for
ECED program enrollment were even greater for the less privileged children who were living in
poor districts or whose parents had lower levels of education.

7.      Based on international evidence that showed the value of ECED, and building on some of
its early efforts, the GOI was committed to prioritize ECED, as reflected in several government
strategic documents, but it faced important challenges. The strategic documents included the
National Education System Act No. 20 (2003), the Education for All plan and the Government’s
National Medium Term Planning 2004-2009 (RENSTRA 2005). Challenges included: (i) the
fragmentation of ECED service delivery and the delivery of health- and nutrition-related services
and of parent education; (ii) extremely low participation in ECED, especially in poor
communities (enrollment was only 8 percent compared with a 24 percent global average
enrollment rate for low-income countries); (iii) lack of government investment in ECED and
failure of the private sector to reach the poorest children; (iv) insufficient provision of services
for families, infants and toddlers (despite the fact that approximately 90 percent of villages had
Posyandus, i.e. village-based health posts); (v) limited progress toward a quality assurance
system for ECED, including quality standards and monitoring and supervision; (f) lack of ECED
training for managers, teachers and field workers; (vi) fragmentation of responsibility for ECED
services across ministries and directorates overseeing different forms of early childhood
development services; and (vii) limited district-level capacity to implement ECED programs,
especially relevant since districts’ responsibilities had been expanded to include implementation,
financing and supervision of ECED services in their respective areas.

8.      The GOI’s strategy aimed to provide expansion of access to quality ECED services with
equity through major investments in: (i) promoting community-based and decentralized service
delivery, and strengthening community capacity in service delivery; (ii) targeting the poorest
communities and households for public financing of ECED service provision; and (iii)
strengthening system management capacity in planning, quality assurance, and monitoring and
evaluation at central, provincial and district levels. The Project was designed to support the
GOI’s strategy in ensuring that children aged 0 to 6 from economically disadvantaged families
and rural areas participate in and benefit from non-formal integrated quality ECED services.




5
  World Bank, Early Child Development Project (approved July 28, 1998), Project Appraisal Document Report No. 18151 dated
July 7, 1998.




                                                            2
1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

9.      The Project’s Development Objective was to improve poor children’s overall
development and readiness for further education within a sustainable quality ECED system. To
do this, the Project was to: (i) increase the capacity of poor communities to engage in
participatory planning that would result in new or improved ECED services for their children and
families; (ii) prepare the foundation for a sustainable ECED system through budgetary
commitments from participating districts, establishment of a national quality assurance and
professional development system, and district capacity building; and (iii) ensure continuous
improvement of service delivery and system building through establishing effective project
management, and monitoring and evaluation.

10.      The Project’s progress towards its PDO was to be measured through the following PDO
indicators: (i) increase in early development scores of children entering kindergarten or first
grade of primary school; and (ii) increase in Child Growth and Development (DDTK) scores of
children 0-3 years. The intermediate indicators were: Component 1: (i) percent of
parents/communities who have received information regarding ECED during community
mapping exercises; (ii) number of communities submitting an expression of interest to prepare an
ECED grant proposal (by completing a form distributed during village pre-conditioning process);
(iii) number of block grants awarded to communities; (iv) increased enrollment in ECED
services by poor children. Component 2: (i) development of standards and recognition of model
ECED centers; (ii) percent of targeted districts with regulations supporting ECED positions in
district government; and (iii) percent of targeted districts with qualified and functioning district
training teams. Component 3: (i) percent of villages undertaking annual community assessments
of existing ECED services and unmet ECED needs; (ii) percent of villages submitting routine
reports to districts on project activities and uptake of ECED services; and (iii) impact study
undertaken.

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

11.    The Project’s Development Objectives were not revised during the project period.

1.4    Main Beneficiaries

12.     The primary beneficiaries of the Project as described in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) were poor children ages 0 to 6. Through geographic targeting at all levels, the Project was
to focus on an estimated 738,000 children living in 50 of the poorest districts of the country and
in the poorest kecamatans, villages and communities within those districts. Once a community
was identified and received a grant, all children with that community were to benefit from the
ECED services implemented, including children with disabilities. The Project’s secondary
beneficiaries were to include: (i) parents and caregivers, particularly those of children ages 0 to 3
that would receive relevant information and support from trained community members on how to
best nurture the development of their children; (ii) the 6,000 teachers and 6,000 child
development workers that would receive both systematic training in early childhood care and
development and close supervision in their daily practice with poor children; and (iii) civil



                                                 3
society and local organizations (NGOs) already active at the community levels whose presence
the Project would capitalize upon to be involved in all stages of the process, including training,
service delivery and independent monitoring. The Project was also expected to have a
demonstration effect on the Government, which could then expand the coverage of ECED
services for poor children in Indonesia.

1.5    Original Components

13.    The Project objective was to be achieved through three components:

14.     Component 1: Increasing Integrated ECED Service Delivery Through Community-
driven Mechanisms in Targeted Poor Communities (US$96.65 million). This component
aimed at delivering integrated ECED service to poor communities in fifty districts following a
Community-Driven Development (CDD) approach. The 50 districts chosen to participate in the
Project were selected according predefined criteria, detailed in the Project Appraisal Document.
This component comprised four sub-components, as follows:

15.      Sub-Component 1.1: Establishing Training Programs and Providing Staff
Development (US$12.20 million). This sub-component was to finance the training of 50
members of the National Early Childhood Specialist Team (NEST), 150 district trainers, 600
facilitators (200 three-member teams consisting of an ECED Specialist, A Family Support,
Health and Nutrition Specialist, and a Community Development Specialist), 6,000 teachers (for
services to children ages 3 to 6) and 6,000 child development workers (CDW) for services to
children ages 0 to 3 and their families.

16.      Sub-Component 1.2: Preconditioning, Launching and Facilitation of the
Community Grant Process (US$18.89 million). This sub-component was to finance: (a) the
selection of eligible kecamatans and villages within about 50 participating districts (about 60
villages per district, that is a total of 3,000 villages nationwide); (b) the sensitization of villages
about the importance of ECED services (preconditioning phase); and (c) the launching and
facilitation of the community grant process.

17.     Sub-Component 1.3: Providing Block Grants to Poor Communities. This sub-
component was to finance the provision of grants to about 3,000 villages (with an average of two
beneficiary communities or dusuns per village) in about 50 districts. Grants were to be awarded
twice a year on the basis of a proposal review conducted by the DPIU.

18.  Sub-Component 1.4: Recognizing Model ECED Services and Using Them for
Demonstration Purposes. This sub-component was to finance additional block grants to one
ECED model program per eligible kecamatan (about 10 model programs per district).

19.    Component 2: Developing a Sustainable System for ECED Quality. This component
was to help ensure quality in the programs financed under Component 1, and create conditions
that would support sustainable, scaled-up provision of holistic, quality ECED services.




                                                  4
20.    Sub--Component 2.1: Quality Assurance. This sub-component was to finance
consultancy services, professional development workshops, and materials development to assist
the Government in developing standards and recognition procedures to support quality ECED
delivery. Assistance was to be directed to relevant units in MOEC and related agencies, in
consultation with the Board of National Standards of Education (BNSP).

21.    Sub-Component 2.2: Institutionalization of Quality ECED at the District and
Provincial Level. This sub-component was to finance facilitation of coordination among and
partnership of ECED-related agencies; inclusion of ECED in local governments’ regulation
(Perda) on organizational structure, roles and function (Tupoksi) in Dinas Pendidikan as well as
other ECED-related agencies. In addition, it would support expert training and workshops to
improve the knowledge bases of the key ECED-related officials; and provide matching grants on
a competitive basis to district governments and existing ECED service institutions to establish
such resource centers to support the training.

22.    Component 3: Establishing Effective Program Management, Monitoring and
Evaluation. This component was to help ensure continuous improvements of both ECED service
delivery and system building over time.

23.      Sub-Component 3.1: Program Management. This sub-component would finance both
project management at the central and district levels. For project management at the central
level, the Project would finance activities to support MOEC in implementing its mandated roles
and functions. For project management at the district level, this Sub Component would finance
activities to support participating districts in implementing their mandated roles and functions.

24.    Sub-Component 3.2: Monitoring and Evaluation. This sub-component was to finance
the development of a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and supervision system for ECED
programs at village/community and district levels, including those ECED programs not
supported by the Project. It also would support formal evaluation 6 of project benefits.

1.6        Revised Components

25.        The Project’s components were not revised.

1.7        Other significant changes

26.     A project restructuring was approved on May 15, 2012. The purpose of this restructuring
was to reallocate funds among expenditure categories in both the Credit Agreement and the Trust
Fund Grant Agreement to reflect the larger number of village teachers trained (reflecting greater
demand), the reductions in Regional Management Consultants (RMC) due to procurement delays
and the need to increase technical support for project management and monitoring. The closing
date of the Dutch trust fund was extended from June 30, 2013 to December 31, 2013 to allow for



6
    This “formal evaluation” is what became the Project’s Impact Evaluation (Section 2.3).




                                                                 5
continued financing of activities under sub-component 2.1 and to continue financing consultants
supporting project management under Component 3.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

27.     Project Preparation. The Project addressed the GOI’s priorities and counted upon its
commitment and ownership, including at the district and village levels; it was also in line with
the World Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The Government was committed to
poverty reduction and to improving services to the poor by strengthening decentralization of
service delivery. Expanded provision of ECED services were seen as fundamental for Indonesia
to achieve MDG targets in education and health, and those set by RENSTRA and the EFA Plan.
Yet, ECED was still a relatively new sub-sector, and there were challenges in the “start up”
phase. Consistent with the CAS focus on areas most crucial to poverty reduction, including the
lack of quality service delivery to poor people, the Bank was well placed to assist the GOI in
closing both the financial and technical capacity gaps that the Government had identified.

28.     The Bank preparation and appraisal teams consisted of technical experts that were
appropriate for the development of the project. A Quality Enhancement Review (QER) was also
conducted and the project design took into consideration comments which included the need to:
(i) provide services for 0-3 year old children; (ii) include indicators that measured overall child
development for children 0-3 rather than specific standalone health or nutrition indicators; (iii)
provide a simple operations manual for use at the local level; and (iv) establish a mechanism
within the project management structure for coordination between various ministries such as a
steering committee. The preparation team incorporated lessons from earlier and ongoing Bank-
supported projects in Indonesia as well as other Bank-supported ECED projects. However,
lessons learned were limited at the time because there were few standalone ECED projects under
implementation in the Bank and ECED was a relatively new investment sub-sector in the Bank.
The preparation team also identified the appropriate critical risks to the project and proposed
mitigation measures within the project design.

29.     Project Design. The PDO for the project was appropriate for an outcome-focused project,
which was also the view of the 2006 QER and the project decision meeting reviewers. In
addition, the results framework, at the time of preparation, was appropriate to measure
achievement of the PDO. The framework had two PDO indicators to measure overall
development and readiness for further education and appropriate intermediate indicators to
monitor progress toward development of a sustainable quality ECED system as well as that of
component implementation. The QER and peer reviewers all confirmed this judgment. The
DDTK scores of children 0-3 indicator was selected specifically to respond to the QER
recommendation. It was also an existing local instrument that could be used to strengthen
linkages with the health sector. Baseline data for the PDO indicators was to be determined by a
baseline data survey in year 1 of the project due to the fact that the Indonesia ECED system was
just being developed and a data system was not yet fully functional. These were areas that the
project would support for further development.




                                                6
30.      The Project was designed to be implemented within the Government’s institutional
structure and budget framework, utilizing a system of disbursing a flat rate of block grants. The
Central Project Implementing and Coordination Unit (CPICU) reporting to the Director of Early
Childhood in MOEC was responsible for monitoring overall implementation and the
coordinating activities in 50 poor districts at the village level. 7 The budget framework and
disbursement flows that were used had been applied under other Bank-financed projects in
Indonesia, including those in the education sector. By targeting poor districts rather than poor
families at the village level, the design ensured a manageable implementation approach. This,
coupled with knowledge that children benefit most from the ECED experience when they
interact with children from more favorable socio-economic backgrounds, made targeting districts
more appropriate. Moreover, the project design ensured that the 50 districts had the capacity and
were committed to the project as demonstrated by financial contributions and establishment of
institutional structures. Participating districts also signed a Memorandum of Understanding
(MoU) between MOEC and district governments. The MoU included selected strategic measures
that districts needed to adopt to have long-term impact, such as: (i) the incorporation of ECED
(as a new sub-sector) in the district’s 5-year Development Plan (Renstrada); and (ii) the
establishment of an ECED unit within local education office (as a district anchor in the ECED
program). Establishing an ECED unit eventually lead to districts allocating local funds to
continue advancing the ECED agenda.

31.    A more community-driven approach, consistent with the GOI’s decentralization
framework, was incorporated under the Project, where villages were to be empowered, with
support from facilitators, to decide upon those services that best suited their needs. An extensive
review was carried out of Bank support to various Community-Driven Development (CDD)
models applied in several sectors in Indonesia. Based on experience, the Project adopted an
approach that channeled grants from districts to communities, along with direct involvement of
local government (especially at the district level) to ensure both technical inputs during
implementation and financial support for recurrent costs.

32.     The design included components that reached all levels of key stakeholders and
strengthened their respective roles, thereby ensuring a holistic approach to building sustainability.
Specifically, the Project supported: (i) the MOEC at the central level to develop standards and
policy; (ii) provincial level to strengthen their coordination role; (iii) the district level to
strengthen the enabling environment, implementation and monitoring capacity; and (iv) the
community level to understand the benefit of ECED for their children as well as establishing and
managing community based ECED service. Moreover, project support at the community level
consisted of the key ingredients, such as facilitation, fund and training for teachers, while
requiring villages to contribute to the infrastructure, which was another measure to ensure
sustainability. Participatory planning was a central feature in the villages’ and communities’
definition of priorities. Through established fora, villagers identified priority communities and
their representatives, who would, in turn, through participatory planning processes, identify
priority needs for delivering ECED services.



7
    The project included 50 poor districts and 6,000 ECED centers in the districts.




                                                            7
33.     The project design also included a parallel co-financing grant in the amount of US$25.3
million from the Royal Netherlands Government. This grant, which was recipient-executed,
supported the development of a sustainable quality ECED system by supporting: (i) the
establishment of core for the National Early Childhood Specialist Team (NEST); (ii) the
development of materials to ensure the that project would begin with basic capacity for
implementation and facilitation of the community grants, project evaluation and capacity
building; and (iii) international and most local consultancy services, fellowships and training.
This support was fundamental in financing initial activities required for the Project, which
included: (i) a decree on participating districts and on the establishment of the CPICU; (ii)
expressions of interest by all 50 districts; (iii) MoUs between the MOEC and district
governments; (iv) selection of communities consultants; and (v) the design of the impact
evaluation and instruments for the baseline survey. These activities ensured that implementation
could begin in a timely manner. The donor-financed grant represented an instrumental and
flexible vehicle in support of enhanced implementation. 8

2.2 Implementation

34.     Overall implementation was positive. Implementation began with a 2006 implementation
preparation mission pending effectiveness. The CPICU was already preparing implementation
plans for FY2006 and 2007; the Bank team and PAUD (Pendidikan Anak Usia Dini or Early
Childhood Directorate) held discussions on the development of training materials for the NEST
trainers; criteria for NEST national trainers had been confirmed; discussions began on the
development of ECED standards; and on the feasibility of building in a randomized designed in a
few districts for the impact evaluation. By 2007, implementation of all project activities was
underway mostly with support from the Dutch trust fund. Credit disbursements were low due to
the fact that a government decree was issued cutting travel costs for government programs,
impacting government officials’ ability to travel to the 50 districts and support project
implementation. This was resolved when the government clarified that the cuts did not apply to
externally funded projects. Once this was resolved, credit disbursements increased and the
project continued to move forward.

35.      In 2009 and 2010, project activities continued to be implemented. The baseline survey for
the impact evaluation took place in 2009 with a second round of data collection in 2010. In
addition, the project had: (i) established community-based ECED services; (ii) distributed the
first tranche of block grants; (iii) developed and piloted parenting training modules; (iv) provided
district level support for ECED teachers; (v) issued national ECED standards through the 2009
Minister Decree 58; (vi) worked with higher education leaders to identify desired competencies
for ECED graduates; and (vii) issued district level financial regulations for supporting ECED
within their district budgets. It was at this time that the Bank’s Quality Assessment of Lending
Portfolio (QALP-2) assessed the likelihood of the project achieving its PDO as Moderately
Likely, partly because it was too early to assess the overall quality and impact of the ECED



8
    Reporting on the trust fund has been through the Bank’s Grant Reporting and Monitoring (GRM) form.




                                                        8
interventions. It found the project well designed, with strong government commitment at all
levels.

36.     While there were many achievements; there were also challenges. In 2009, due to MoEC
reorganization, most of key personnel involved in project design were replaced. This included
the Director General, Director of ECED (implementation unit) and CPICU coordinator. At this
time, the new Director requested substantial changes to the project design and implementation
arrangements by significantly reducing the role of consultants at all levels and replacing them
with government staff. The procurement process of key consultant packages (mostly regional
management consultants) were put on hold during this time. The Bank team had several
meetings with the new Director explaining the importance of the original design which led to an
agreement to keep the original project design and implementation arrangements. This however,
slowed the implementation process.

37.     In late-2010, another reorganization took place. The responsibility for formal and non-
formal ECED was merged under the “Directorate General of ECED, Non-Formal and Informal
Education”. This led to an increase in directorates relevant for the project: the Directorate for
ECED (formal and non-formal) and the Directorate for Professional Development of Teacher
and Personnel of ECED, Non-Formal and Informal Education (P2TK PAUDNI). Although
project implementation remained under the Directorate for ECED, the reorganization of staff
slowed implementation activities again. One notable change occurred when in 2010,
approximately 130 community facilitators resigned for a variety of reasons (i.e., secured
permanent civil service employment, ran for local offices, etc.), which required the project to
recruit new facilitators and establish procedures to ensure continuity in village support. Financial
management during this period presented challenges and was downgraded to moderately
unsatisfactory. The QALP-2 also rated implementation as moderately unsatisfactory primarily
in response to shortcomings in financial management and procurement processes.

38.     By 2009, it was also increasingly evident that there were challenges with the PDO
indicators, particularly with the DDTK Scores of children 0-3 years. Although it was selected
based on recommendations from the preparation stage QER, it became increasingly obvious that
this indicator was more appropriate for determining whether a child had special needs rather than
measuring children’s development over time. Moreover, it was not feasible to find and train
enough psychologists for the administration of the DDTK considering the scale of the project.
The implementation teams reviewed the Early Development Index (EDI) and determined that it
was more suitable for the purposes of the project since it is a school readiness instrument. It
covered the same aspects of development as the DDTK but was more relevant to the projects
aims and did not require formal psychologists to undertake the assessment, making it easy to
complete by either the caregiver or teacher of the child. Examples of the proxy indicators used to
replaced most of the DDTK indicators included: (i) the number of tasks children are able to
complete (covering the domains of gross motor, fine motor, language, cognitive and socio-
emotional development), and (ii) the percentage of children able to answer the receptive and
expressive language questions correctly. (See Annex 3 for the full comparison of indicators.) At
the same time, the team made the decision to use the impact evaluation to gather, analyze and
report on achievement of the PDO. This is judged to have been an appropriate decision on the
part of the Bank and government implementation teams because of the data challenges and the



                                                 9
fact that this approach could provide more direct information on project attribution and PDO
achievement.

39.     The 2011 mid-term review (MTR) confirmed that the PDO was appropriate and that there
was a high likelihood of achieving the PDO. This was important particularly in light of the
modification to the PDO indicator that measured child development for children ages 0-3. At the
time of the MTR, the project was also on track to complete all project activities with a credit
disbursement rate of 91 percent and 76 percent for the Dutch trust fund. The Bank also began to
dialog extensively with the government at the central, district and community level about the
need to have all necessary policies and institutional measures in place to ensure that the ECED
model would be sustained. It was during the MTR that the government requested a reallocation
of the Credit funds between disbursement categories. The Bank team agreed to put forth the
necessary project restructuring documentation for the reallocation in April 2012. In late 2012,
another restructuring was processed to extend the closing date of the TF which was completed in
April 2013. At the time of the final restructuring, the implementation unit also made the request
to restructure the result framework to formally reflect the use of the proxy indicators as a
replacement to the DDTK. The package was submitted to the Ministry of Finance and Bappenas.
However, the government felt that the agreements within the project documentation was
adequate and was not inclined to pursue the process further.

40.    At the time of project closing, the structure of a successful ECED program was in place,
with many sustainable features such as training and monitoring, as well as a strong
understanding and demand from the beneficiary district governments. Furthermore, the delivery
model is replicable and can be scaled-up across Indonesia. This is a substantial achievement.
Over the project implementation period, the Bank team conducted six formal implementation
support missions and the Bank’s Indonesia country office team provided almost continuous on-
the-ground support from preparation through completion. The make-up of the Bank’s teams was
well balanced with financial management staff well represented on missions. The project closed
as scheduled on December 31, 2013 and had disbursed 99 percent of the credit (SDRs 45.9
million or US$70.4 million equivalent) and 92 percent of the Dutch trust fund (US$23.4 million).

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

41.      Design. The M&E design was twofold. The first focus of the M&E design was to
develop a system to monitor project outcomes. The development of the system was important
since there was no formal ECED data gathering system at the time the project was designed. The
system would provide information for project outcomes as well as project outputs and was to be
managed by the CPICU. The second was an independent evaluation of the ECED community-
based interventions would be assessed through an impact evaluation that also looked at trends in
some child development indicators. Putting in place a system to monitor project outcomes was
seen as critical for sustainability of ECED programs. As such, design focused on developing a
monitoring, supervision and evaluation system for ECED programs at village/community and
district levels, including those ECED programs not supported by the Project. This system would
be developed through annual community assessments comprising: (i) registration of children
aged 0-6, including background information on family circumstances, current participation in
ECED programs and anthropometric assessments; (ii) an inventory of ECED services and



                                               10
resources accessible to a village/community; and (iii) an assessment of the developmental levels
of children entering kindergarten and school using a “school readiness” instrument 9.

42.      The development of an ECED monitoring system was judged to be highly relevant for the
institutionalization of ECED sub-sector. Moreover, the original results framework was judged to
have been appropriate at project design because it was monitoring child development and
readiness although no specific target value was assigned for the respective indicators. Although
gathering data related to the DDTK scores of children 0-3 proved to be difficult and, more
importantly, not the appropriate indicator for assessing child readiness 10 , the project team
quickly made the adjustment and adopted new indicator measures that proved to be appropriate.
The intermediate indicators were linked to the components and were appropriate to measure
intermediate level achievements. The inclusion of the impact evaluation was highly relevant and
an important design feature for understanding the effectiveness of project interventions.

43.    Implementation and Utilization. During implementation monitoring and evaluation
focused on: (i) development of a system that tracked the intermediate outcome indicators, and
(ii) an impact evaluation which evaluate the PDO indicators (school readiness and child
development.

44.      The monitoring system was developed and is user-friendly and reliable, and an improved
data entry application was developed to support the system. Monitoring activities were managed
by community facilitators (village level), by the DPIUs and the RMC/District Consultants
(district level), by the provincial implementing units (provincial level) and the CPICU and NMC
(central level). The system is now capable of providing comprehensive data from the field to
guide decision-making and project improvement. The system counts on data entry of the 5,990
project-supported village implementing units level, and is capable of aggregating data by village,
sub-district, district, and province, and for the whole 5,990 units. Training on use of the
monitoring system was provided through a cascade model to the NMC, RMCs and district
consultants and field facilitators at the community level.

45.    The collected data in the monitoring system encompasses the intermediate indicators in
the Project’s results framework, including carefully tracking the number of new enrollments in
each of the 5,990 project supported centres.


9
  School readiness would be measured using the EDI, an instrument correlated with later school performance that
looks at physical health and well-being, social competence, approaches to learning, emotional maturity, language
development, cognitive development, communication skills and general knowledge. The instrument was considered
to provide communities with an easy to understand and psychometrically sound instrument to monitor their efforts
to improve early year’s outcomes over time. This instrument had been used in developed and developing countries,
and was adapted to the local context.

10
   The DDTK is a diagnostic tool developed based on a Denver test and adapted to Indonesia’s country context that
tracks individual development of children. It also measures whether a child has a special need and, as such, should
generally be used as part of an intervention rather than for monitoring and evaluation. There were important issues,
including institutional, in terms of the availability and linkages with professionals to track individual children and
the consequent financial implications for its usage. This made its use under the Project inappropriate



                                                          11
46.     Five cycles of annual monitoring were carried out under the Project, and in each of these,
improvements were made to revise and improve the monitoring instrument and data entry system,
and reduce the bottlenecks in data entry to improve timeliness of information. This was so
successful that by the end of the third cycle information was received from districts within two
months compared to six months in the previous cycle. The results of the data analysis were
routinely discussed with the ECED Directorate and district representatives. The system has
developed a rating system for ECED centers using a spider web diagram (Annex Figure 1 in
Annex 2) that can provide an indication of the performance of individual ECED centers, and
aggregate the data at higher level.

47.      This capacity is used to map the centers and the specific aspects in service delivery that
need improvement. The data provided from the monitoring system is particularly important for
district level supervision as well as informing resource allocation and focusing support to the
needy areas. Furthermore, feedback and monitoring from project-supported activities (e.g.,
professional development, including teacher training) were routinely carried out and used to
adjust and improve programs, manuals, and the design of specific activities. Based on experience
with the monitoring system supported by the Project, the MOEC expressed interest in a
comprehensive monitoring system that would allow them to map the performance of ECED
services across Indonesia The M&E system developed in the project is being adopted by
Directorate of Teacher and personnel PAUDNI, especially for supporting school supervisor in
their tasks in quality assurance. The comprehensive M&E system put in place under the Project
is a major accomplishment. It is being utilized to rate ECED centers according to various criteria
that reflect the quality of service delivery, identifying areas that need attention to improve overall
quality, not only in project-supported centers, but also, by linkage to MOEC monitoring systems
to all ECED services across the country.

48.     The impact evaluation carried out under the Project has provided valuable information to
inform and document the Project’s impact. The Bank’s implementation support team provided
just-in-time advisory support to the MOEC in all phases of carrying out the IE, and set up a team
in the country office to produce technical and policy papers that make use of the IE’s rich data to
guide its education sector work. 11 For each round of the survey, a joint GOI-Bank team worked
closely to ensure the quality of data being collected by the government, through contracted
survey firms. In the first two rounds (2009 and 2010), the Bank team provided intensive support
to the CPICU to ensure reliability of data as well as build the capacity of the CPICU to analyze
the data and produce reports based on the analysis. In the end, the Bank used the data provided
by the system to produce the 2013 Directions in Development report Early Childhood Education
and Development in Poor Villages of Indonesia: Strong Foundations, Later Success. (See Annex
4 for full details of the impact analysis methodology and data analysis).




11
     P110517 (ID-ECD Evaluation)



                                                 12
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

49.    Safeguard Compliance. The Project was classified as Category C for environmental
purposes so an environmental management plan was not prepared. Nevertheless, the Project
Operational Manual (POM) contained appropriate guidance concerning how to address issues of
waste disposal, noise, etc., in the event that community projects involved minor
construction/renovation.

50.     The Project did trigger OD4.20 (now revised as OP4.10), Indigenous Peoples policy, as
isolated vulnerable peoples were present in some areas of the 50 districts covered. A Framework
for Treatment of Indigenous or Isolated Vulnerable People was prepared that identified activities
to be carried out to ensure that the Project addressed the special needs of these groups. The
specifics of these activities were included in the POM. Section 3.4 presents a summary of the
Social Assessment carried out upon project completion.

51.      Fiduciary Compliance. There was a risk assessment of both financial management and
procurement as high, in part due to the lack of capacity at all levels, and in part due to the
Project’s decentralized implementation. To address these risks specific action plans in each of
these areas had been agreed, and the Project included financing for identified critical activities
(e.g., strengthening of MOEC internal control capacity by financing the development of audit
manuals, including audit or community block grants and the training for staff of the Inspectorate
General). The project operational manual (POM) documented the financial management system
and procedures (including procurement) to be followed by the Project’s implementing agencies
at all levels. Consultants were contracted to support the CPICU in fiduciary areas.

52.      Despite this, financial management and procurement issues surfaced, especially in early
implementation, requiring intensive and repeated follow-up by the Bank’s implementation
support team. For financial management, this was evidenced by delays in: (a) appointing a
financial management consultant to the CPICU; (b) introducing minor financial management
revisions to the POM; (c) contracting the technical assistance to strengthen the MOEC’s internal
audit function; (d) submission of Interim Financial Reports; (e) conducting transaction reviews
and payment verifications, appropriate recording of expenditures and filing of supporting
documents and addressing expenditures backlogs; and (f) providing follow-up to observations in
the Project’s external audit. These issues were addressed by early 2012, and consultants at the
district level were contracted, significantly improving financial management performance at the
district level. External audits were timely and unqualified, although they did occasionally contain
observations.

53.      Procurement. Procurement also surfaced as a major issue that required attention and
adjustment during implementation. The Project’s original procurement plan had envisaged the
contracting of a National Management Consultant (NMC) and five Regional Management
Consultant (RMC) firms to strengthen the capacity of project management in participating
districts (including for procurement). Each of the RMCs would contract community facilitators
to provide support at the village level. Procurement of the RMCs suffered delays, due in part to
weak capacity of the procurement team and the re-organization in MOEC, so in the meantime,
the CPICU directly contracted 600 community facilitators individually. After the contracting of



                                                13
two RMCs had been concluded (RMC1 and RMC4), they took over the contract of the
community facilitators working in their respective regions. For areas without RMCs, 34 district
consultants were contracted directly by CPICU, and the rest of community facilitators continued
to be contracted by CPICU on individual basis. These individuals, contracted as non-consulting
services, had been contracted by early 2011, resolving an issue that was delaying much needed
support to the districts and villages/communities. Although involving a minor adjustment from
the Project’s original design, the substitution of the three RMCs by individuals represented an
effective approach in to support implementation. Other issues that affected procurement
processes were the delays in getting the procurement committee together, multiple changes in its
members, and persistent issues with the quality of bidding documents and bid evaluation reports.
These were the focus of follow-up and technical support and advice by the World Bank’s
specialists. Project procurement plans were updated at least annually, and used effectively to
monitor compliance with scheduled activities.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

54.     The FY13-15 Country Partnership Strategy for Indonesia reports that the GOI has
indicated a preference for not seeking external financing for education at this time. Nevertheless,
the CPS proposes that the Bank remain engaged through knowledge services, and linking of
education, including ECED, with other operations.

55.     Specifically, starting in late 2012, the Project promoted a pilot collaboration between
ECED and the Bank-financed National Community Development Program (Program Nasional
Penberdayaan Masyarakat – Generasi Sehat Cerdas, PNPM Generasi) funded by the GOI’s
Ministry of Home Affairs 12. Both programs share a common CDD approach, and the PNPM
Generasi’s focus on maternal and child health and basic education provides a logical opportunity
to link it with ECED, especially by using Posyandu as the entry point. Indicators related to
ECED services for children aged 0-6 were added to the Generasi menu using the PNPM
Generasi's performance based block grant mechanism to increase participation of the poor in
ECED services. 13 The pilot leveraged the experience and materials developed under the ECED
to train sub-district and village facilitators in the benefits of ECED, who then raised awareness
among rural community members of the importance of ECED. PNPM Generasi block grants
were invested in activities aimed at improving access to ECED services, including transportation
to ECED centers, procurement of educational materials, rehabilitation of posyandu buildings to
make them appropriate for use as ECED centers, and so on. The pilot did not provide fund for
the local government. In 2014 the pilot was operating in three districts (Boalemo, Sumbawa, and
Cianjur).




12
   PNPM Generasi is an incentive-based community-driven development program that focuses on maternal and
child health, as well as on universal education. The program provides incentives to communities to meet a number
of maternal and child health indicators, including those on ante-natal care, immunizations and growth monitoring.
Incentives are also provided for meeting or exceeding enrollment thresholds for 7-15 year olds. The pilot location
was Sumbawa and Boalemo districts (where the project overlap) and Cianjur (non ECED project district)
13
   These indicators included: “every child under 3 years receives joint stimulation/nurture once a week” and “every
child 3-6 years receives early childhood stimulation at a minimum 3 times per week”.


                                                        14
56.     In addition, the Directorate P2TK (Professional Development for ECED Teacher and
Teaching Personnel)in 2012-12, requested the Bank to conduct a review in two areas: (a)
capacity of ECED supervisors, and (b) training programs for ECED teachers. The review
produced a draft of policy recommendations for improving the capacity of ECED supervisors
with a specific focus on conducting efficient monitoring of quality of services and quality of
teacher training. The review also produced recommendations on improving curriculum and
delivery mechanism of the teacher training program. The review and recommendations drew
significantly on the training materials and other resources produced under the Project and,
therefore, have continued the effort of institutionalizing the Project’s achievements.

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

57.      Relevance of Objectives. The relevance of the Project’s objective is high. The Project’s
objective was relevant at the time it was prepared and continues to be relevant today. It was
consistent with the Government’s priorities and with the Bank’s CAS when it was prepared, and
is still very relevant to the GOI and the Bank although the GOI is no longer seeking external
financing for education. Participation of children aged 0-6 in ECED services remains low, with
significant gaps in participation among rural and urban areas, and among income levels. As a
result, by the time children from poor families begin primary school they are already behind in
essential areas of development and school readiness. Yet, it is these very children from poor
families that stand to benefit the most from ECED services. Therefore, the Project’s objective of
improving poor children’s overall development and readiness for further education and of
providing a sustainable quality ECED system continues to be very relevant.

58.     Relevance of Design. The relevance of the project design is substantial. The Project’s
design included activities at all levels of government that were needed to put in place and deliver
a quality ECED system in 50 districts, while strengthening capacity to replicate this system in
others. The Project established implementation units, embedded in the education office, at the
Central level (CPICU), Provincial Level (PPIU) and District level (DPIU). At each level,
especially at the district level, budget is allocated to build capacity of the respective government
unit, including coordination meetings, study visits as well as technical assistance. At the same
time, project activities also sensitized project communities about the importance of ECED and
training community members to serve as ECED teachers at the local level. The community-
driven nature of the Project, with districts selected according to pragmatic criteria, built upon
proven models of CDD projects to incorporate districts’ and communities’ needs. The selection
of PDO indicators at the time of design was judged to have been appropriate. During
implementation there were challenges with the PDO indicators as describe above. However,
these modifications made are judged to have been appropriate for measuring achievement of the
PDO as well as impact of the project on the ECED system.

59.    Relevance of Implementation. The relevance of project implementation is judged to be
substantial. As indicated above, implementation of the majority of project activities was
successful. The Bank’s implementation assistance was responsive to emerging needs. While the
Project was implemented almost entirely within the parameters defined during preparation, the



                                                15
Bank’s implementation assistance demonstrated flexibility when issues emerged. The
implementation support team responded pragmatically to the MOEC’s request to contract
individual consultants to substitute for the originally planned RMCs in three regions. But it did
so after ensuring that a monitoring mechanism was put in place so that the maximum of 34
individual consultants received coaching, and supervision from the national management
consultant and the CPICU. Similarly, when it became apparent that the MOEC did not have the
experience in M&E, the Bank provided greater than expected support to the GOI in developing
the monitoring system and providing just-in-time assistance in the collection of data and
evaluation of results of the Project’s impact evaluation. The development and institutionalization
of the ECED data system that resulted in utilization of the data, mostly by the introduction of the
spider web diagram is judged to be a project a success. Finally, the Bank’s implementation
support has played a strong, catalytic role in working with the various ministries at the central
level, and districts at the local level to disseminate the Project’s achievements, explore options
for a continuation of support to districts and communities and pilot alternatives to sustain and
expand its model to other districts and communities.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

60.      The Project’s PDO was to “to improve poor children's overall development and readiness
for further education, within a sustainable quality ECED system.” The Project’s achievement of
its Development Objective is rated moderately satisfactory. The PDO addressed two aspects:
first, to improve poor children’s overall development and readiness for further education, and
second, to do that within a sustainable quality ECED system - achievements in both of these
aspects are addressed separately below.

61.     Improving poor children’s overall development and readiness for further education.
A randomized impact evaluation (IE) carried out between 2009 and 2013 presents rigorous
evidence on the impacts of the project on a number of child development outcomes. The IE
tracked the development outcomes of two cohorts of children in 2009, 2010 and 2013. These
cohorts were aged 1 and 4 years old in 2009. Using a range of experimental and quasi-
experimental methods (See Appendix 3 for details) the IE provides evidence to support the
contention that the project “improved poor children’s overall development and readiness for
further education.” Specifically:

           •   The project led to an improvement in the physical health and well-being as well as
               the language and cognitive development of the 1-year-old cohort at end-line. This
               cohort of children outgrew the development measures used to assess them at the
               time of the baseline. Thus at the end-line, they were assessed using a locally
               adapted version of the Early Development Instrument. This is the same instrument
               that has been administered to the older cohort in past rounds of the IE.

           •   On average the data show that the project led to fewer improvements in
               development outcomes for the 4-year-old cohort than the 1-year-old cohort. There
               is an increase in the emotional maturity of the older cohort of children. Other




                                                16
                   point estimates, though positively signed, are not statistically distinguishable from
                   zero. 14

              •    However, when the data are disaggregated, they reveal that these average results
                   mask substantial improvements for poorer children in the 4-year-old cohort. There
                   is compelling evidence that the project led to improvements in poorer children’s
                   social competence, language and cognitive development as well as emotional
                   maturity. 15

62.     The two cohorts of children studied in the impact evaluation provide complementary
evidence on the Project’s impact. While several moderately sized development impacts were
found, the strongest evidence of an impact across all analyses is for improvements in children’s
language and cognitive development. This domain was found to be the weakest for children in
rural Indonesia when baseline assessments of the children were conducted in 2009 and is one of
the domains most strongly associated with school readiness.

63.     Taken together, the evidence from the IE suggests that exposure to the Project improved
“poor children's overall development and readiness for further education.” The extent of the
improvement in children’s outcomes that can be attributed to the Project varies depending on the
aspect of school readiness under consideration. It also varies depending on the cohort of children
being studied.

64.    Developing a Sustainable Quality Community-based ECED System. The project has
been moderately successful in meeting the sustainability issue, as substantiated by the
achievement of selected intermediate outcome indicators, summarized as follows:

65.      With respect to the indicator “percentage of targeted districts with regulations supporting
ECED positions in district government”, 48 out of 50 districts have established permanent ECED
positions within their education office, exceeding the target by 16 percent. In addition, the
project helped establish technical committees in 47 of the 50 districts to further support
coordination of quality ECED services. In addition to supporting ECED positions, the majority
of districts and several villages have issued regulations or decrees in support of ECED 16.

66.    With respect to the indicator “development of standards and recognition of model ECED
centers”, target was partially met. National Standard for ECED services were issued through
Ministerial Decree 58 in 2009 consisting of four categories: (i) Developmental Achievements in
Early Childhood; (ii) Educators and Education Personnel; (iii) Content, Process and Assessment;



14
   This lack of statistical significance is a reflection of the fact that the evaluation was designed to be able to detect a
minimum effect size larger than the one obtained in reality. Thus the design does not have enough statistical power
to detect the effect sizes actually observed.
15
   These results are robust to alternative approaches. Comparing the evolution of outcomes between children whose
parents report having poor parenting practices at baselines reveals a similar story. Together these results are
consistent with the project having improved outcomes for the most vulnerable groups.
16 Examples of regulations in support of ECED issued by districts and villages are Peraturan Bupati (Decree of
District Head) and Peraturan Daerah (District Regulation) as well as Peraturan Desa (Perdes)


                                                            17
and (iv) Facility and Infrastructure, Management and Financing. Although not yet fully enforced,
they do represent a significant achievement and lay the foundation to improve the quality of
programs, teachers and training/professional development. The target for the establishment of the
district resource centers, with matching grants from district government, was missed: 25 model
centers were established compared to the target of 36. However, the project did meet the target of
providing 10 model centers per district with additional block grants. 17

67.     With respect to the percentage of targeted districts with qualified and functioning district
training teams, the target was 90 percent met. 18 All of district trainers completed their training.
However some trainers did not conduct follow up supervision due to lack of transport support to
visit teachers in remote areas. District trainers continue to serve even after the project closed.
The extensive training and capacity building activities conducted at the national, district and
community levels of the ECED system has undoubtedly raise the quality of ECED services being
provided 19.

68.      In addition to meeting the project intermediate indicators, the following sustainability-
related activities have been achieved with project support: (i) as envisaged, all 50 districts signed
an MoU prior to their participation in the project that included actions to support the
institutionalization of quality ECED at the district and provincial levels; (ii) as part of the MoU,
participating district ECED financing increased from US$356,000 in 2006 to US$11.91 million
in 2013 which is a considerable achievement considering there was not a legal obligation to
allocate ECED funding at the provincial or district levels; (iii) all districts have ECED
supervisors 20 who are responsible for quality control and supervision of ECED centers; (iv) each
district has a Forum PAUD which consists of people from different ECED backgrounds to
support and advocate ECED; (v) 36 districts have included ECED in their strategic development
plan; 23 districts allocated funds for volunteer teacher incentives, 40 districts to monitoring and
evaluation and more than half the districts to infrastructure, coordination and operational
program work.

3.3      Efficiency

69.     The Project resulted in an efficient use of resources, and was implemented efficiently. A
full ex-post economic analysis is provided in Annex 3 and summarized below. The PAD
conducted a cost-benefit analysis of the Project, which estimated that the average project benefit
cost ratio would be 6:1. This analysis assumed a 5 percent discount rate, rates of return to
education ranging from 29.8 percent for primary education to 13.8 percent for higher education.
It further assumed that the target of 738,000 children would be reached and that the target for
educational attainment in project districts would be the average educational attainment of non-




17
   Under the Project, two types of model centers were established: (i) one model center identified within each district
that would receive a US$200,000 matching grant from the Project (to be matched by at least US$100,000 from the
district budget); and (ii) 10 model centers per district that received additional block grants of US$25,000.
18
   The target was for all 50 districts to establish a training team.
19
   Please see Annex 2 for the complete list of trainings and capacity building activities
20
   57 percent of districts elected their supervisors while 43 percent of districts assigned supervisors.


                                                         18
project districts. Lastly this analysis assumed that benefits would accrue in the form of increased
wages till age 60.

70.    This analysis has been updated using the actual number of children reached (673,162 as
of June 2013) and the actual observed increases in educational attainment. These vary depending
on the age cohort analyzed. For the four-year old cohort the estimates are 0.1 years on average
and 0.4 years for the one-year-old. It also uses more conservative estimates of rates of return:
which range from 6.8-10.6 percent as estimated by Duflo (2001) and from 6.1-12.3 percent as
estimated by Patrinos et. al. (2006).

71.     Assuming a 6.5 percent rate of return to education (averaging the bottom end of the rates
of return reported in the papers above), and that children do not begin to realize the benefits of
increased wages until age 18 and that they do so for 40 years, a 0.1 year increase in schooling
results in a benefit-cost ratio of 1.3. 21 Similarly, a 0.4 year increase in schooling results in a
benefit-cost ratio of 4.3. Using the lowest rate of return assumed in the PAD (11.2 percent)
suggests a much correspondingly higher benefit-cost ratio of 2.1 – 7.3. Thus even the most
conservative cost-benefit estimates would suggest that the Project did better than break even.
This is an underestimate of the benefit given the conservative estimates of returns to education
used, the shorter-than-usual time horizon for accrual of benefits as well as the fact that these are
only private returns. Social returns to education have not been factored in.

72.     Efficiency in the Use of Resources. The final allocation of funding under each of the
Project’s three components is provided in Annex 1. Under component 1, no more than 20 percent
of the funds received by each village could be used on physical infrastructure or construction
according to the Project’s design. Thus to compare efficiency, the amounts other projects have
spent on classroom construction is compared with the amount communities could spent on
construction under the Project. With one exception, the Indonesia ECED Project spent less on
physical infrastructure than other education projects, which had a similar component suggesting
a relatively more efficient use of project resources. The Project was also implemented efficiently
and completed, as scheduled, with no extensions of the closing date.

3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

73.     The Project’s overall outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The objectives were
and continue to be highly relevant. The project help develop an ECED mechanism that establish
a framework for the delivery of ECED services to poor communities. This mechanism counts on
strong institutions at the national level, including training, standards and monitoring and
evaluation, developed and implemented a model for efficient delivery of ECED services that can
be sustained and expanded using alternative funding mechanisms, including those provided at
the district level and through other complementary programs that transfer funds through block
grants. Although there were data collection problems with the original PDO indicators, stemming


21
 The 2012 GDP per capita in PPP terms was US$4876. In our calculations of rate of return, we assume that rural
wages are a third of this number.



                                                      19
from capacity constraints and resources for collection of data in 6,000 ECED centers, the proxy
indicators are judged to have been substantially relevant to measure progress toward
achievement of the PDO. These indicators also show attribution of project interventions to PDO
achievement. The efficiency of the project is also judged to be substantial.

Project Relevance       Achievement of PDO             Efficiency            Overall Rating
                             (Efficacy)
Substantial            Moderately Satisfactory     Substantial          Moderately Satisfactory

3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

74.    By focusing on 50 of the poorest districts in the country, the Project had a poverty focus
by design. The IE confirmed that the Project’s impacts were greater for children from poor
households and disadvantaged groups.

75.     A Social Assessment was carried out upon completion to assess to what extent the Project
was able to reach the poor indigenous children. The general finding was that ECED services in
remote areas were able to reach indigenous children in areas accessible by transport, but that
special efforts would be required to cover very remote areas. Although it found that these centers
were providing good services to the children mostly due to the enthusiasm of the volunteer
teachers that deliver them, it also found that ECED teachers in non-urban areas require more
training, especially in the form of real-life examples as opposed to books and guidelines, and
supervision to provide them with support and back up. Finally, Indonesia’s indigenous peoples’
communities in remote areas cannot simply rely on school management and the communities’
willingness to pay—additional financial support is required.

(b)    Institutional Change/Strengthening

76.     The Project had a strong institutional focus at all levels of government. The Project
succeeded in putting in place a framework for ECED, generating demand at the sub-national
level, and challenging districts and communities to explore and test innovative methods to
sustain ECED services and increase their impact (by coordinating with complementary services).
The model also depended upon integrated actions and activities at all levels, all of which
received strengthening and assistance to improve their institutional capacity for implementation.
The Project had an important impact on institutional capacity, change and strengthening as
described above.

(c)    Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

77.     The Project had an important impact both on district governments and the MOEC that
expand beyond it completion. At the district level, districts have considerable flexibility of their
constrained budgets, but it was interesting to see that several have adopted innovative strategies
to internalize ECED activities in the context of other programs supported by national regulations,
thereby promoting synergies and efficiency in delivery. For example, one district has developed


                                                 20
its own program---Stimulation, Intervention and Optimization of Services for Young Children
(SIOLA)—that combines ECED with parenting education, growth monitoring and micro-credit.
Another district issued local regulation in support of POSPA-BKB integrating Posyandu (Health
Post), PAUD (ECED service) and BKB (Parenting Education Program).

78.     At the national level, based on experience with the monitoring system supported by the
Project, the MOEC has expressed interest in a comprehensive monitoring system that would
allow them to map the performance of ECED services across the country (not just those
supported by the Project). The Project supported the piloting of an integrated system designed to
integrate the Project’s monitoring system into the Government’s routine system employed at the
ECED Directorate, thereby providing for continued monitoring of the Project’s activities through
the GOI’s system upon completion. The piloting addressed four pillars necessary to support the
function of the system, especially at the sub-national level, including readiness and capacity
assessments in the area of: (a) institutional and legal framework; (b) human capacity; (c)
organizational arrangements for monitoring and evaluation; and (d) infrastructure support,
including the use of management information systems. The piloting is testing a web-based
monitoring and evaluation system that will enhance accountability and improvements in ECED
delivery by making the results widely accessible by relevant stakeholders. The pilot was
conducted in 9 districts in 6 provinces, and the findings will be used to strengthen the MOEC’s
ECED monitoring system at the national and sub-national level. In addition, the P2TK
Directorate is interested in adopting this piloted monitoring and evaluation system to be applied
by school supervisors as tools to implement the role of Penilik in ECED quality assurance. A
collaborative activity between the Bank and P2TK Directorate to adopt the system is underway.

3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

79.     Risk to Development Outcome is assessed as substantial. Risk to development outcome
is linked to sustainability, a topic that became a central focus of attention by the Bank’s
implementation support starting in earnest during the MTR, increasing in attention through the
Project’s completion. There are several aspects of sustainability, and therefore risk to
development outcome, that present different challenges and risks: (a) that districts and ECED
centers that received support under the Project will be able to sustain ECED programs; (b) that
the MOEC will sustain the systemic quality improvements for ECED (e.g., teacher training,
national standards, monitoring); and (c) that the GOI will sustain and expand the ECED model
supported by the Project at the national level, providing ongoing support to both districts,
villages and centers that have already received support and to those that have not. Each of these
is discussed below.

80.     The risk that districts and ECED centers that received support under the Project will be
able to sustain ECED programs was very much linked to the Project’s design and PDO, and the
focus of selection of districts and villages initially and throughout implementation (e.g., in MOU,



                                                21
of institutionalizing the model in district and village budgets and structures, etc.). All project-
supported districts have demonstrated strong commitment to ECED, and have shown strong,
bottom-up demand to sustain the project investments in their villages and centers. So far, they
have demonstrated willingness to contribute resources, within their means. Parental contributions
are an important support for funding centers’ operations. Most centers (66.1 percent) apply a fee
of, on average, Rp.7,700 per month, but only half of the parents were able to pay the fee. In
addition, districts have flexibility in terms of allocating resources to ECD from their whole
budget envelope, and many are in fact doing so, but resources are limited and there are
competing priorities. However, between 2 percent and 9 percent of services are reported to have
stopped operating due to lack of operational funding, incentives for teachers, as well as
insufficient numbers of children in the villages willing to pay for ECED services. 22 At the other
extreme, some districts have transformed some of the “satellite” services into full service ECED
centers, with their own facilities and teachers. 23 Therefore, main concern to districts’ ability to
sustain project investments relates to the risk of availability of continued funding in amounts
required, especially in the absence of continued financial support from the national government
either through the model developed under the Project or through another mechanism that
allocates incremental funding. Nevertheless, despite limited support, by project closure above 90
percent of the project supported services are still operating. This risk would be considered
moderate if funding from the national government were to become available in amounts
required; in the absence of that funding, this risk is considered high.

81.     The risk that MOEC will sustain the systemic quality improvements (National Standards,
professional development, monitoring and evaluation) for ECED is considered negligible. The
GOI has demonstrated strong commitment to ECED throughout implementation, and to putting
in place the instruments needed to ensure the quality of service delivery. It has capitalized on
project-supported activities, and expressed intention to expand and continue to build upon them.

82.     The risk that the GOI will sustain and expand the ECED model supported by the Project
at the national level is substantial, especially in view of financial commitments to ECED
directly. The GOI has set an ambitious enrollment target of 75 percent by 2015 (up from 67
percent in 2010), focusing on the provision of access in rural areas. The ECED directorate has
introduced the Education Assistance Program (BoP), which will provide operational funds for
ECED services of Rp. 7,200,000/year. Nevertheless, for 2011, the BoP would cover a modest 8
percent of the total age group. In the absence of increased financial commitment directly for
ECED, one option that has produced promising results would be to link ECED service delivery
with the National Program for Community Empowerment (PNPM) funded by the GOI’s
Ministry of Home Affairs.




22
   The majority of centers that have closed operations are in Papua (30 percent) and North Maluku (25 percent).
Failure in sustaining services in these two areas appears to be the result of: (a) the less participatory process in
selecting service location resulting in the selection of communities with a small number of children aged 0-6, and (b)
the high mobility pattern of the families who travel with the young children for considerable lengths of time, for
which the introduced services are not compatible.
23
   More than 700 “satellite” services are reported to become full service ECED centers.



                                                         22
5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

83.     Bank Performance in ensuring quality at entry is considered moderately satisfactory.
Project preparation included: (i) good analytical work, (ii) incorporated lessons from the earlier
pilot ECED project and other CDD operations, and (iii) underwent a QER and peer review
process. A qualified team of technical experts prepared it, with strong support from fiduciary
specialists, and with budget support from the Netherlands Trust Fund. The preparation team
adopted a pragmatic approach to project design, making a rational decision not to pursue state-
of-the-art ECED service delivery, but to start with a model that was feasible, replicable and
responsive to village and community needs. The project included activities needed to achieve the
PDO, and opted for a simplified governance structure and implementation arrangements,
working within the GOI’s institutional structure and systems. The preparation team also adopted
a pragmatic approach to the Project’s poverty focus by focusing on 50 of the poorest districts and
in the poorest villages and communities within those districts. The PDO and PDO indicators
were judged to be appropriate for the project. As indicated earlier, the DDTK PDO indicator was
revised due to issues related to monitoring the indicator but the proxy indicators were appropriate
for monitoring the PDO. The Royal Netherlands Government parallel financing from the Dutch
also represented an instrumental and flexible vehicle to ensure project readiness and support of
enhanced implementation.

(b)    Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

84.     Quality of Supervision is rated moderately satisfactory. A highly capable team of
specialists in the various areas, including fiduciary, that remained intact (with the exception of a
change in the Bank’s Task Manager due to internal rotation) provided implementation support
throughout the Project’s six-year implementation period. The team provided continuous, on-the-
ground support, and focused that support on development impact, and on identifying issues,
following up and resolving them. There was consistency in the team’s support across the
multiple instruments, including the Project, analytical and advisory support, trust fund
management and policy dialogue on ECED, thereby ensuring coherence and consistency on
policy dialogue across GOI ministries and its various levels of government. All aspects of the
Project’s reporting were thorough and well documented, including Implementation Status and
Results Reports and Aide Memoires among others. Implementation support began discussing
transition arrangements to internalize and expand the ECED model at the MTR, when initial
results of the Project’s positive implementation and impacts were becoming apparent. The team
worked intensively with officials of the MOEC, with district governments, and with other GOI
ministries to disseminate the results, and provide a catalytic source promoting sustainability at
the district and central levels, and expansion to other districts. Finally, QALP-2 reported that the
review panel was impressed with the attention given to the Project by sector management and its
input to resolving technical issues. The team quickly identified issues related to the DDTK and



                                                23
substituted appropriate proxy indicators. The Bank team recognized the need to formally
restructure the project’s results framework however, the GOI was reluctant to request the
restructuring.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

85.     Based on the analysis above the overall Bank performance is rated moderately
satisfactory.

5.2    Borrower Performance

(a)    Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

86.     Borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory. Borrower is taken to mean the
GOI in general, including local governments and the MOEC in particular. The Borrower had in
place a good enabling environment for the Project’s implementation, including supportive
macroeconomic, sectoral and institutional policies that ensured efficient implementation, and the
availability of timely counterpart resources in required amounts. The Government’s commitment
to the Project and its objectives was consistent throughout implementation. The GOI’s
commitment was apparent not only through taking early actions needed to ensure timely
implementation (e.g., issuing necessary decrees, Memoranda of Understanding) and assigning
necessary counterpart funding (with delays occasionally at the start of the budget year), but more
importantly through the several policy, institutional and legal measures adopted throughout
implementation to improve the framework for ECED. These included the issuance of the
National Policy Strategy and Design on Holistic and Integrated ECED in 2008, followed by the
issuance of Guidelines for Development of Holistic and Integrated ECED in 2009 and
corresponding regulations in 2013. Finally, in 2009 the GOI issued the National Standards on
ECED, and important milestone for ensuring quality ECED service delivery. The GOI also
worked closely with the Bank’s implementation support team to evaluate and learn from the
Project, and to identify stronger prospects for its continued operation upon completion, including
coordination with other government programs. Going forward, the MOEC will need to ensure
the financial sustainability of the Project’s model and its expansion to other districts in Indonesia.

(b)    Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

87.     Implementing agencies performance is rated moderately satisfactory. Implementing
agencies included the CPICU in the MOEC and the 50 districts that were targeted under the
Project and the communities/villages within those districts that received block grants to expand
ECED services. Performance of the CPICU was moderately satisfactory, mostly the result of
issues early on with procurement and financial management as indicated above. Although staffed
with specialists in both areas, the issues remained unresolved until 2012. Staffing changes
described earlier may have influenced this to some extent. Overall, the CPICU, supported by the




                                                 24
NMC and the Project’s institutional framework of RMCs, Community Facilitators, etc.
demonstrated capacity to manage a relatively complex project, keeping implementation on track.

88.     Performance of implementing agencies at the district and community level was
satisfactory, especially given the relatively weak institutional capacity of most of these agencies.
The demand was strong, and they worked closely with the support of project facilitators to reach
out to key stakeholders in communities and villages. In most cases, implementing agencies at the
district and community level embraced the Project and the model it created, demonstrating
willingness to put in place the policies, structures, resources and processes needed to promote
sustainability. In some cases, districts and communities explored innovative options to
incorporate ECED services within a broader framework of other, complementary programs under
their jurisdictions. They also demonstrated strong commitment to the Project through the staff
and financial commitment they provided throughout its implementation, and to the need for
timely monitoring of its results in order to continuously improve service delivery.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

89.     Based on the analysis above the overall borrower performance is rated moderately
satisfactory.

6.     Lessons Learned

90.     Lesson 1. The impact evaluation revealed that younger children (1 year cohort by
baseline) benefit the most from ECED. This is likely because they benefit from a full exposure
to the Project. Their parents received facilitation, the village services were established and fully
operational by the time they were old enough to join and they started earlier whereas the older
cohort (4 year by baseline) had shorter exposure to the activities supported by the Project.

91.     Lesson 2. The Project’s interventions were provided in a package that included
facilitation, block grants (for operation) and teacher training that proved to be very
effective. Moreover, each village group received facilitation under the Project during three years,
long enough for them to be made aware of the ECED services. This period was important to
generate demand for ECED at the village level and also to build ownership by the local
population by providing incentives for them to establish and operate ECED centers. Together,
these design features were important for obtaining positive achievements and to ensure
sustainability at the community and district levels.


92.    Lesson 3. Flexible financing for initiating activities prior to signing and effectiveness
was instrumental for ensuring that project implementation begins quickly. The parallel
financing provided by the Royal Netherlands Government allowed the project implementation
team to hire needed technical assistance prior to signing and effectiveness. This ensured that
people were in place to support critical project components when the project became effective.
Moreover, the block grants could also begin right as the project became effective so that villages
could begin their ECED programs quickly.



                                                25
93.      Lesson 4. The structure of the Bank’s sector assistance teams can have strong
impact on its delivery of effective, integrated assistance. For the Project, the team responsible
for implementation support was also responsible, with different task management responsibilities,
for analytical and advisory services, trust fund management and overall policy dialogue. This
provided for consistent and coordinated assistance delivery to the GOI on ECED. The fact that
the team was largely based in the field increased its effectiveness, especially in coordinating with
other teams delivering assistance to explore options for sustainability of ECED service delivery
(e.g., coordination with the PNPM team).

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
 Comments from Implementing Agency was received and documented in Annex 7. The
comments are considered consistent with the general ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers
By the time of the submission of the ICR, the comments from the co-financier, the Dutch
Government, was not available. Once received it will be documented in the project file.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                                26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                       Appraisal         Actual/Latest
                                                                                       Percentage of
             Components              Estimate (USD      Estimate (USD
                                                                                        Appraisal
                                        millions)          millions)

Component 1: Increasing Integrated
ECED Service Delivery Through
                                                          96.65            93.23          96.48
Community-driven Mechanisms in
Targeted Poor Communities
Component 2: Developing a
                                                          12.20             7.71          63.20
Sustainable System for ECED Quality
Component 3: Establishing Effective
Program Management, Monitoring and                        18.89             6.29          33.30
Evaluation
                             Total Base Cost            127.74            107.23          83.94

Physical Contingencies                                    0.00              0.00
Price Contingencies                                       0.00              0.00
                   Total Project Costs                  127.74            107.23          83.94

                 Total Financing Required               127.74            107.23          83.94


(b) Financing
                                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                                  Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
       Source of Funds            Type of Co-financing
                                                                   (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                                  millions)   millions)
IDA Credit                                                         67.50       70.041      103.76
Dutch Trust Fund                                                   25.30       23.40        92.49
Borrower                                                           34.94       13.79        39.47
1
    There were exchange rate gains due to the SDR:US$ exchange rate.




                                                         27
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Increasing Integrated ECED Service Delivery Through Community-driven
Mechanisms in Targeted Poor Communities

94.      This Component was aimed at delivering integrated ECED service to poor communities
in fifty districts following a Community-Driven Development (CDD) approach. The fifty
districts chosen to participate in the Project were selected according to the following criteria: (a)
low participation rate of 0-6 years children in ECED services; (b) low Human Development
Index and Poverty Index and classified as poor districts by KepMen Pembangunan Daerah
Tertinggal 2005; (c) commitment to developing ECED agenda in their respective districts as
indicated by: (i) budget allocation for ECED programs; (ii) existence of a unit and staff, with a
clear and comprehensive mandate for managing ECED; (iii) existence of a PAUD forum which
allowed for coordination among a wide range of stakeholders, including bureaucrats of the
ECED-related offices, women’s organizations, parliament members, academics, and
practitioners; (iv) existence of an commitment to an action plan to coordinate ECED-related
offices to support the integration of early education, health, nutrition and parenting education
aspects of ECED; and (v) readiness to finance some of the project activities (after two years of
implementation), so that the operation of the ECED services at community level could sustain
after project completion.

95.    A community, for purposes of the Project, was defined as a neighborhood (dusun) within
an Indonesian village. Typically, Indonesian villages consist of about five dusuns, each with
approximately 60 children aged 0 to 6 (i.e., 30 children aged 0 to 3 and 30 children aged 4-6)—
an optimal size for service delivery. Accordingly, service delivery was to take place at the dusun
(community) level. It was expected that approximately two dusuns per village (i.e., those with
the highest numbers of poor households and children aged 0-6) would receive services in the
context of the Project. The community of these neighborhoods would establish a Community
Team (CT) consisting of an elected Leader, Treasurer and other members. The block grant would
be channeled to the CTs, who would be responsible and accountable for the use of grants.

Sub Component 1.1: Establishing Training Programs and Providing Staff Development

96.    This Sub Component financed:
       • Selecting, according to agreed criteria, and training a National trainer team consisting
          of 32 National Early Childhood Specialist Teams (NEST) and 10 Community
          Development Specialists (CDS) from among ECED-related agencies and forums,
          including universities that offered ECED programs;
       • Developing a resource book for the NEST and CDS;
       • Developing modules and materials for the Training of the District Trainers, for the
          Training of Community Facilitators (prepared by NEST);
       • Developing modules and materials for training teachers and Community
          Development Workers (by NEST and selected Master Trainers), assisted by a training
          specialist, and adapted to reflect local knowledge and culture;
       • Delivering a program of 700 hours training to NEST and CDS, preparing them to
          serve as lead trainers for the Project;


                                                 28
•   Financing overseas study programs in Singapore and Italy, to build NEST capacity
    and leadership potential about current, innovative ECED practices;
•   Delivering a program of 500 hours training for 192 Master Trainers (including 150
    district and 42 provincial participants (Master Trainers are responsible for training
    teachers and CDWs);
•   Delivering a 500 hour training (classroom and on-the-job) for 600 Community
    Facilitators;
•   Evaluating the performance of NEST, Master Trainers, Facilitators, teachers and
    CDWs;
•   Training 11,828 teachers and CDWs in all 50 districts (by Master Trainers and, in
    some cases, NEST members);
•   Delivering additional training to Community Facilitators to assist communities in
    adjusting their planning to adjust to additional resources received (as a bonus for
    good performance and the results of combining two payment tranches into one);
•   Developing booklets for families of young children (28 on various topes), including
    the recruiting of an illustrator-consultant to make the booklets attractive and engaging
    for parents, to respond to the GOI’s priority of family-centered ECED
•   Conducting a National Coordination Workshop (ECE Summit) in December 2010 to
    disseminate information about the Project’s status and to renew the commitment at all
    levels. The participants endorsed an accord drawn up by the Project’s implementing
    units laying out their commitments for future sustainability, with specific
    commitments at each level (CPICU, districts/provinces and communities/villages,
    including:
        o Agree with different ministries in creating ECED as holistic-integrative,
             integrating ECED with Poysandu, and parenting;
        o Provide incentives for teachers
        o Develop strategy for institutional arrangement in view of the current
             integration between Formal (Kindergarten) and Non-Formal ECED;
        o Develop professional support for supervisors to carry out their duties in
             ECED;
        o Include ECED in district development planning blue print;
        o Ensure the village implementing units were in compliance with GOI
             nomenclature;
        o Include ECED in village regulation to ensure sustainable use of ECED
             centers; and
        o Conduct continuous socialization on the important of early childhood
             education.
•   Conducting capacity building activities for ECED district stakeholders, including a
    workshop to raise awareness of the various stakeholder to design an exit strategy for
    handover of project responsibility and to create a more strategic plan for ECED at the
    district level. This workshop served to link the district stakeholders with District
    Consultants and Facilitators, and renewed both district commitment and
    responsibilities;
•   Designing a set of evaluation instruments to assess the knowledge, attitudes, and
    relevant skills of various categories of project personnel to review the effectiveness of



                                         29
          these individuals and the training they received: NEST members, provincial and
          district Master Trainers, Community Facilitators, teachers and CDWs;
      •   Conducting a half-day session workshop on parenting education and support for
          families with young children, to socialize NEST and Master Trainers to the GOI’s
          conceptual framework, supporting research, and recommended activities in
          establishing “family-centered ECED”; the output was a set of background materials
          and follow-up plans discussed by participants.
      •   Training trainers (ToT) at provincial and district levels, including combined theory
          and practical classes and on-the-job training in the form of ECED and Child
          Development Worker (CDW) training;
      •   Delivering training to Community Facilitators and teachers (by NEST);
      •   Facilitating the joint meeting of the Directorate of ECED and the Directorate for
          Teaching and Education (P2TK) through a workshop to improve the professional
          development support for ECED teachers;

Sub Component 1.2: Preconditioning, Launching and Facilitation of the Community Grant
Process

97.   This Sub Component financed:
      • Preparing, finalizing, and printing the Community Grant Operational Manual and
         distributing it to the District Project Implementing Units and Community Facilitator
         Teams, and later revising it based on feedback from those teams;
      • Selecting and training 446 Community Facilitators, in three batches to socialize the
         Project to the community and facilitate Block Grant implementation at the village
         level;
      • Supporting 1000 communities in establishing village implementing units (TPKs) in
         preparing their community-based proposals;
      • Strengthening the TPK’s readiness to manage grants;
      • Selecting and verifying the participation of 3,000 villages and about 6,000 TPKs;
      • Recruiting District Consultants in regions that did not count on RMCs, to:
             o Carry out functions of planning, supervising, monitoring and evaluating the
                  implementation of Block Grants in compliance with procedures and manuals;
             o Consolidate and validate monitoring and evaluation data on services, target
                  beneficiaries, and KPI, including reporting;
             o Ensure that services are of high quality;
             o Ensure the flow of information from lower levels to the central level by
                  strengthening district and village implementing unit capacity;
             o Coordinate with all stakeholders to support the Project at the local level; and
             o Manage the complaints handling mechanism.
      • Carrying out various activities to assist districts in providing sustainability for the
         Project; these included evaluation workshops organized by provinces to allow
         districts to identify successes and challenges;
      • Conducting workshops, organized by the districts that have produced sustainability
         plans that include strategies for districts to carry out, including:
             o Inviting village leaders to receive orientation about the Project and its
                  sustainability expectation, as well as to ensure that the ECED centers receive


                                             30
                full village commitment in terms of budget, sectoral support and community
                participation including insertion of ECED in district strategic planning;
              o Ensuring valid and legal status of the land and building where the service is
                operating;
              o Ensuring formal registration of ECED centers, their access to BoP and
                participation in the clusters;

Sub Component 1.3: Providing Block Grants to Poor Communities

98.    This Sub Component financed:
       • Providing Block Grants to about 5,990 village implementation units in three batches,
          each of which was delivered in three installments.
       • With these grants, village units carried out their plans to prepare and/or improve their
          ECED centers and provide home visits, to purchase educational toys and pay salaries
          of trained teachers and Community Development Workers;
       • Materials were organized into modules on topics such as Child Development,
          Learning through Play, Music, Mathematics, and Children with Special Needs. They
          provide extensive background resources that can be used in a variety of ways.
       • In the ECED centers, children participate in learning activities provided by highly
          dedicated teachers and Community Development Workers;
       • Community groups managing the service were highly committed in administering
          their services;
       • Intensifying linkages with Poysandu to that early stimulation and parenting programs
          for children aged 0-3 (and their parents) is provided to those attending the monthly
          weight measurement program;


Sub Component 1.4:     Recognizing Model ECED Services and Using Them for
Demonstration Purposes

99.    This Sub Component financed:
       • Planning a system to recognize ECED programs that exemplify “Best Practices or
          Model Centre”;
       • Developing a manual that lays out the criteria, review and selection process for
          awarding grants for “Best Practices”; Criteria are designed to support future
          sustainability by identifying centers that could serve as models for others (10 per
          district); the criteria for the 10 other centers in each district include those that aim to
          reach out to more families by scaling up their services; supporting purchase of
          additional learning materials; offering apprenticeships or other on-the-job training for
          local teachers/future teachers and developing ECED advocacy materials; and
       • Conducting a competitive selection process in 50 districts to select 10 ECED centers
          in each district (total, 500 Model Centers) that met the required eligibility criteria for
          being awarded grants for Best Practices.

100. Under the Project, two types of Model Centers were established: (a) one District
Resource Centre identified within each district that would receive a US$200,000 matching grant


                                                31
from the Project (to be matched by at least US$100,000 from the district budget), and (b) 10
Model Centers per district that received additional block grants of US$25,000. The
implementation for centers receiving additional block grants was relatively fast, whereas
implementation in centers receiving matching grants was relatively slower since it required
districts to allocate local budgetary funds to match the project grant. Nevertheless, this approach
has shown good progress, but there is wide variation in the quality of the District Resource
Centers, and several issues that need to be addressed. Some of the successful cases, with their
upgraded facilities and capacities, have used their centers to host teacher cluster meetings in their
sub-district; others have integrated their services with Posyandu or parenting programs as a buy-
product of the improved community participation that the additional block grant supported. In
other cases, however, centers allocated too high a proportion of their matching grants to physical
improvements, neglecting investment in teacher professional development.

Component 2: Developing a Sustainable System for ECED Quality

101. This Component would help ensure quality in the programs financed under Component 1,
and create conditions that would support sustainable, scaled-up provision of holistic, quality
ECED services.

Sub Component 2.1: Quality Assurance

102.   This Sub Component financed:
       • Establishing and Ad Hoc Committee to develop the ECED standards;
       • Drafting, consulting and revising (based on feedback from provinces, experts, etc.)
          standards for ECED (by BSNP);
       • Expanding ECED standards to both formal and non-formal settings;
       • Supporting the issuance of National ECED Standards that received an endorsement
          from the Minister of MOEC through Ministry Regulation No. 58 2009.
       • Conducting a workshop with the objective of finalizing the technical guidelines of the
          ECED Standards, that concluded with a series of publications detailing technical
          guidelines in each of the ECED Standards categories.
       • Disseminating ECED standards with the objective of socializing a broad range of
          stakeholder about their meaning and use, thereby raising their awareness and
          understanding of them

103. The National Standard on ECED follows BSNP procedures for developing all education-
related standards. The Decree sets national standards in four categories: (a) Developmental
Achievements in Early Childhood; (b) Educators and Education Personnel; (c) Content, Process
and Assessment; and (d) Facility and Infrastructure, Management and Financing. The standards
cover both formal and non-formal ECED in one document. Although they are not yet enforced,
the National Standards represent a significant achievement, laying a necessary precondition to
improve the quality of programs, teachers and training/professional development.

Sub Component 2.2: Institutionalization of Quality ECED at the District and Provincial
Level



                                                 32
104.   This Sub Component financed:
       • Providing facilitation and support for the establishment of ECED units in provinces
          and districts; (48of 50 participating districts and 17 among 21 provinces)
       • Providing facilitation and support for the establishment of technical coordination
          committees in provinces and districts (19 and 47)
       • Providing facilitation for inserting ECED in the district strategic development plan of
          36 districts, budget allocation to support ECED in the annual planning and budget
          document, and financial incentive especially for teachers volunteering their services
          in 23 districts

105. This achievements have several advantages: (a) ECED is mainstreamed in the local
development agenda and guaranteed budget support (based on local fiscal capacity); (b) there are
strengthened local policies and regulations to administer ECED, including the establishment of
an ECED sector in government; (c) increased opportunities for support from cross-cutting areas
for ECED intervention (e.g., Posyandu), and (d) ECED access and quality receive greater
attention from development actors.

106. In addition to funding from district budgets, several ECED centers have begun to rely on
alternative sources of funding to ensure institutionalization, including: (a) charging a minimum
fee to parents; (b) accessing the village fund; (c) applying for district and central schemes and
issuance of supporting regulations for ECED expansion; (d) support from the central government
in the form of various block grants, most notably the ECED operational fund (BoP) equivalent to
US$720/year/service; and (e) pursuing linkages with the private sector, through corporate social
responsibility schemes. Communities have shown willingness to share resources in terms of
MOECy, goods and materials and labor. Almost 45 percent of project ECED centers received
support funding from the village community, and about 20 percent from the village allocation
fund. Despite the relatively low levels, this support demonstrates villages and communities
willingness to contribute to the sustainability of ECED centers, and the importance of continuing
a process for disseminating services and results to mobilize funding.

Component 3: Establishing Effective Program Management, Monitoring and Evaluation

Sub Component 3.1: Program Management

107.   This Sub Component financed:
       • Contracting the National Management Consultant (NMC) to intensively monitor and
          assure the quality of program implementation at district and community levels, and to
          supervise and function as a back-up to Regional Management Consultants (RMCs),
          and later facilitators in three districts; The NMC provided management support to the
          directorate of ECED, especially in the preparation of the Annual Work Plan, Terms of
          Reference, Procurement Plans as well as financial reporting.
       • Contracting two RMCs to monitor closely and assure quality of Project
          implementation and provide technical support to the implementing unit at the district
          level (DPIU);
       • Contracting a Procurement Specialist to provide ECED management with an expert in
          the procurement of goods and services and that is able to provide advice and feedback


                                               33
           to the CPICU on procurement issues, including preparing Procurement Plans,
           providing feedback on procurement issues, and assisting the CPICU procurement
           team in carrying out procurement processes, and assisting with procurement
           reporting;
       •   Contracting a Consultant in ECED Policy to provide ECED management with a
           policy expert that is able to provide advice and feedback to the CPICU on ECED
           policy issues, including on the integration of those policies with other supporting
           sectors;
       •   Contracting a Financial Specialist to provide advice and support to the CPICU on
           overall management, monitoring and supervision of project finance and to provide
           capacity building to the CPICU on financial management;
       •   Contracting a Notary to provide ECED management with a notary who is able to
           provide legal advice and guarantees in any Memoranda of Understanding or contracts
           made by the CPICU;
       •   Contracting a Database Specialist to provide ECED management with support to
           develop the Project’s database, maintain it, and provide capacity building for CPICU
           staff
       •   Contracting a Web Specialist to develop and maintain the Project’s website and train
           ECED Staff in its use; the user-friendly website uses various media to promote and
           inform about ECED to outsiders and insiders alike;
       •   Contracting a Senior Survey Specialist to ensure that the midline impact evaluation
           was implemented in accordance with the Terms of Reference and to ensure the
           quality of data gathering; the specialist ensured that the midline survey was carried
           out with high quality procedures and processes;
       •   Contracting three Survey Specialists to ensure that the midline impact evaluation was
           implemented in accordance with the Terms of Reference and to ensure the quality of
           data gathering; the specialists ensured that the midline survey was carried out with
           high quality procedures and processes;
       •   Contracting a Data Specialist to ensure that the midline impact evaluation was
           implemented in accordance with the Terms of Reference and to ensure the quality of
           data gathering; the specialist ensured that the data generated in the midline survey
           was of acceptable quality and validity and could be used for the final impact
           evaluation;
       •   Contracting a Communication and Publication Specialist to establish the Project’s
           media campaign and publications, to support outreach and advocacy for ECED; and
       •   Contracting four staff to provide administrative and secretarial assistance for
           managing remuneration and making payments to Community Facilitators.

Sub Component 3.1.2: Project management at the district level.

108.   This Sub Component financed:
       • Issuing a Decree of the Minister of MOEC on the 50 participating districts;
       • Issuing a Decree on the establishment of the CPICU;
       • Issuing a Decree on the establishment of the Project Steering Committee;
       • Securing expressions of commitment to participate in the Project by the 50 districts;



                                              34
       •   Formalizing MoU between the MOEC and the Bupatis of the participating districts
           reflecting the districts’ commitment to implement collaboratively the Project, and
           specifying the rights and obligations of each party with respect to the
           institutionalization and capacity building at the local level, financing, monitoring and
           evaluation of the Project; (19 provinces, 47 districts)
       •   Putting in place and training Coordination Committee at the province and district
           level (19 and 47);
       •   Selecting communities/villages within districts based on four selection criteria;
           (3000)

Sub Component 3.2: Monitoring and Evaluation

109.   This Sub-Component financed
       • Designing the impact evaluation and draft instruments for the baseline survey;
       • Designing the Project’s monitoring system by the CPICU (with World Bank
          assistance);
       • Contracting base line and midline surveys
       • Field testing the instrument
       • Developing data collection instruments, manuals and reporting mechanisms to cover
          monitoring and evaluation activities conducted at the village, district, province and
          central levels; monitoring activities are managed by Community Facilitators (at the
          village level), by the district project implementing units and the RMC/District
          Consultants (district level), by the provincial implementing units (provincial level)
          and the CPICU and NMC (central level);
       • Developing a solid monitoring and evaluation system that is user-friendly and reliable,
          and improved data entry application was developed to support the system; the solid
          monitoring tool can provide comprehensive data from the field to guide decision-
          making and project improvement;
       • Incorporating questionnaires about project quality in the village implementing units’
          monitoring format and guidelines;
       • Simplifying monitoring and evaluation instruments, reporting formats and guidelines
          for the village-implementing units, the Community Monitoring Teams and the
          Community Facilitators in response to the real circumstances in the field. The semi-
          annual village implementing unit monitoring instrument are all linked to data entry;
          the monitoring system has automatic data validity, data cleaning and data analysis
          and reporting, with possibility of linking data to the internet
       • For the impact evaluation:
              o Finalizing the set of survey questionnaires (village head, midwife, head of
                  child health center, caregiver, child and household)
              o Overseeing the implementation of baseline survey (a first in Indonesia as this
                  is the first time measures like the EDI, strengths and difficulties questionnaire
                  (SDQ), Kessler 10, and child development tests were administered);
              o Disseminating the report from the baseline survey to government agencies and
                  development partners;
       • Piloting the integration of the Project’s monitoring and evaluation system into the
          Government’s routine monitoring and evaluation system employed at the Directorate


                                               35
           of ECED, developing data collection, analytical and reporting system and developing
           manuals including those for ECED supervisors; the piloting assesses the four pillars
           necessary to support the functioning of the system especially at sub-national levels,
           including readiness and capacity assessments in the area of:
               o Institutional and legal framework;
               o Human capacity;
               o Organizational assessments for monitoring and evaluation; and
               o Infrastructure support, including the use of management information systems;

110. The comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system put in place under the Project is
also a major accomplishment. It is being utilized to rate ECED centers according to various
criteria that reflect the quality of service delivery, identifying areas that need attention to
improve overall quality, not only in project-supported centers, but also, by linkage to MOEC
monitoring systems to all ECED services across the country.

111. As explained in 2.3 the most significant factor that contributes to the utilization of the
monitoring system is the introduction of the automatically generated spider web diagram (figure
1). Twelve composite indicators are tracked, based on individual data collected. These include:
(i) institutional; (ii) infrastructure; (iii) frequency of services; (iv) teacher and non-teacher staff;
(v) administration of ECED center; (vi) learning process; (vii) health and nutrition; (viii)
parenting; (ix) financing; (x) parent/community participation; (xi) partnerships of ECED center
with other relevant stakeholders; and (xii) community-based monitoring implementation.




                                                  36
Figure 1: M&E System Spider Web Diagram




Status of Progress of Intermediate Indicators
                    Indicator                          Baseline          Target     Achieved
                                         Intermediate Results Indicators
     Component 1: Increasing integrated ECED service delivery through community-driven mechanism
     in targeted poor communities
     % of parents/communities who have received          None               80         99.8
     information regarding ECED
     Number of communities submitting an                 None             6,000       5,990
     expression of interest
     Number of block grants awarded to                   None             6,000       5,990
     communities
     Increased enrollment in ECED services by            23%              31% 24    673,162
     poor children 3-6 years                                            (738,000)
     Component 2: Developing a sustainable system for ECED quality
     % of targeted districts with qualified and          None               80         96.1


24
  The regular monitoring system tracks new enrollment of each of the 5,990 project supported centers to
meet the target mentioned in page 8 of PAD : “The project will target an estimated 738,000 children ages
0 to 6 and their parents/ caretakers living in approximately 6,000 poor communities, in 3,000 villages
within 50 poor districts….”



                                                   37
 functioning district training teams
 Development of standards and recognition of  None                36                 25
 model ECED centers
 % of targeted districts with regulations     None                80                72.2
 supporting ECED positions in district
 government
 Component 3: Project management, monitoring and evaluation
 % of villages undertaking annual community   None                80                80.90
 assessments
 % of villages submitting routine reports to  None                80                96.0
 districts
 Impact study undertaken                      None                Yes               Yes

Examples of Incorporation of ECED in District Planning Documents and Local Regulations

 District                  Supporting Regulation
 ACEH TENGGARA             Surat Edaran (SE) Gubernur Aceh on BKPG/ Family Support
                           (Bantuan Keuangan Pemakmue Gampong) 2013 to support ECED
                           dan Posyandu.
 ACEH TENGAH               ECED is part of district planning (RPJMD 2007-2012) which is
                           adopted in Qonun (District Decree) No. 4 tahun 2007 on RPJMD,
                           stating: policies to improve ECED (teacher capacity building,
                           infrastructure development, class support facilities)
 TAPANULI TENGAH           ECED is implicitly mentioned in the district mid-term development
                           blueprint (RPJMD No.3/12012), stating: to improve access and
                           quality of early childhood, and non-formal education services
 PESISIR SELATAN           There is an inclusion of ECED in the district dvelopment planning
                           policy (Renstrada – RPJMD 2010-2014) – it reads: Improve access
                           to meet demand of ECED services.
 SIJUNJUNG                 ECED is part of the district mid-term RPJMD 2011-2015, aiming
                           for early childhood education assurance for all children 0-6
 SOLOK                     ECED is part of district mid-term development goal (RPJMD 2011-
                           2015), saying targeting 67% ECED enrollment by 2015, through
                           access and community participation

 SOROLANGUN                Local mid-term development plan and strategy (RPJMD 2011 –
                           2015) specifies support for teachers and Dana Operasional PAUD
                           (DOP)
 TOBA SAMOSIR              ECED is incorporated in the local mid-term development strategy
                           blueprint of RPJMD 2011-2015, stating that the district needs to
                           expand ECED access in 16 sub-district (kecamatan ); improve non-
                           formal schooling for children aged 3-5 and develop their potentials
                           for school readiness. Implemented programs include: renovations
                           and new classrooms establishment, educative toys provision,
                           treacher incentives.

                           Official regulations with regard to ECED issued by local district are:


                                             38
                1.     Perbup No. 8/2011 on village funds arrangement for villages
                which run ECED services. 10% of 70% ADD is allocated to ECED.
                2.     Perbup No. 14/2013 on ECED provision and implementation
GARUT           ECED is part of local development blueprint (RPJMD 2011-2015),
                saying “to improve ECED access”
SUMEDANG        ECED is inserted in local district development plan strategy policy
                (RPJMD 2008-2013), stating the importance of ECED as one of
                contributing factors to district human development.
SUKABUMI        ECED receives formal recognition as one of district education
                development goals in RPJMD 2010-2015. It sets an indicator of
                ECED enrollment needs to be achieved from 34.26% to 70% by
                2015

                A Bupati Decree was issued in 2010 on holistic integrative ECED
                (Perbup Nomor 41 tahun 2010
OGAN KOMERING   ECED as one of district target development goals is imprinted in
ILIR (OKI)      RPJMD 2009-2014 (district medium-term development blueprint) –
                stating: improve access and supporting facilities of ECED to meet
                target enrollment by 2014.
GUNUNG KIDUL    ECED is one of prioritised sectors in Gunung Kidul. It is set forth in
                RPJMD 2010, section 4 indicatig achievement targets for the
                district.
BANJARNEGARA
                ECED receives formal recognition as one of district education
                development goals in RPJMD 2010-2015. It sets an indicator of
                ECED enrollment needs to be achieved from 34.26% to 70% by
                2015.

                A Bupati Decree was issued in 2010 on holistic integrative ECED
                (Perbup Nomor 41 tahun 2010)
SAMBAS
                A Distritct Decree (PERDA) on early childhood education has been
                at its final process stage. It is expected that district education Perda
                will be adopted and be fully effective in 2013.




                                   39
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


Cost benefit analysis

 112. The PAD conducted a cost-benefit analysis of this Project, which estimated that the
 average project- benefit cost ratio would be 6:1. This analysis assumed a 5 percent discount rate,
 rates of return to education ranging from 29.8 percent for primary education to 13. 8 percent for
 higher education. It further assumed that the target of 738,000 children would be reached and
 that the target for educational attainment in project districts would be the average educational
 attainment of non-project districts. Lastly this analysis assumed that benefits would accrue in
 the form of increased wages till age 60.

 113. The ICR updates this analysis using the actual target number of children reached
 (673,162 as of June 2013) and the actual observed increase in educational attainment (0.1 years
 on average for the 4-year-olds and 0.4 years for the 1-year-olds). It also uses more conservative
 estimates of rates of return: which range from 6.8-10.6 percent as estimated by Duflo (2001)
 and from 6.1-12.3 percent as estimated by Patrinos et. al. (2006).

 114. Assuming a 6.5 percent rate of return to education (averaging the bottom end of the rates
 of return reported in the papers above) and that children do not begin to realize the benefits of
 increased wages until age 18 and that they do so for 40 years, a 0.1 year increase in schooling
 results in a benefit-cost ratio of 1.3.25 Similarly, a 0.4 year increase in schooling results in a
 benefit-cost ratio of 4.3. Using the lowest rate of return assumed in the PAD (11.2 percent)
 suggests a much correspondingly higher benefit-cost ratio of 2.1 – 7.3. Thus even the most
 conservative cost-benefit estimates would suggest that the Project did better than break even.
 This is an underestimate of the benefit given the conservative estimates of returns to education
 used, the shorter-than-usual time horizon for accrual of benefits as well as the fact that these are
 only private returns. Social returns to education have not been factored in.

 Table 1: Cost-benefit-analysis for the 1-year-old cohort
                                                                   Per beneficiary ($)          Total ($)
  Discounted stream of income per beneficiary                                     331       223,124,103
  Discounted cost per beneficiary                                                  76         51,469,388
  B-C                                                                             255       171,654,715
  Return for each USD invested                                                   4.34                 4.3
  Assumptions: Number of beneficiaries = 673,162. Annual cost per beneficiary = USD 27.
  Additional years of schooling = 0.4. Benefits start at age 18 and continue for 40 years. Returns to
  education = 6.5%. Discount rate = 5%. Average annual earnings = 33% of 2012 GDP per capita in
  PPP terms.


25
   The 2012 GDP per capita in PPP terms was US$4876. In our calculations of rate of return, we assume that rural wages are a
third of this number.


                                                              40
  Table 2: Cost-benefit-analysis for the 1-year-old cohort
                                                             Per beneficiary ($)              Total ($)
  Discounted stream of income (B)                                            367            247,152,852
  Discounted cost (C)                                                         76             51,469,388
  B-C                                                                        291            195,683,464
  Return for each USD invested                                              4.80                     4.8
  Assumptions: Number of beneficiaries = 673,162. Annual cost per beneficiary = US$ 27.
  Additional years of schooling = 0.48. Benefits start at age 18 and continue for 40 years. Returns to
  education = 6%. Discount rate = 5%. Average annual earnings = 33% of 2012 GDP per capita in
  PPP terms.

Efficiency

115. While each village received US$18,000 over three years with which to rehabilitate or
establish early childhood services, no more than 20 percent of the funds could be used on
physical infrastructure or construction according to the Project’s design. Thus to compare
efficiency, we compare the amounts other projects have spent on classroom construction with the
amount communities could spent on construction under the Project. With one exception (which
took place 5 years before the Indonesia ECED project), the Indonesia ECED Project spent less
on physical infrastructure than other education projects, which had a similar component.

Table 3: Comparison of construction costs under different projects
                                  Implementation       Rate per m²               Cost per
             Project                                                                              Notes
                                        year              (US$)              classroom (US$)
                      Baseline          2004                54                     3,500             1
 Laos EDP II*           IDA             2005                77                     5,000             2
                      AusAID            2009                86                     5,600             3
                      Baseline          2009                94                     6,000             4
 Laos EDP II
                    291 schools         2010               110                     7,100             5
 AF*
                     47 schools         2013               144                     9,330             6
 Indonesia ECED 6,000 centers           2009                 -                     3,600             7
 Notes: All m² rates = total contracted cost / total m² of building.
 1 EDP II notional cost is 54 per m².
 2 The average school construction cost financed by IDA is $77 per m², inclusive of furniture.
 3 The average school construction cost financed by AusAID is $86 per m², inclusive of furniture.
 4 EDP II AF notional cost is 94 per m².
 5 The average school construction cost of 291 EDP II AF initially schools is $110 per m², inclusive of
     furniture.
 6 The average school construction cost of 47 EDP II AF additional schools is $144 per m², inclusive of
     furniture.
 7 At most 20% of the block grants could be used on physical infrastructure / construction.
 8 * built by villages.
 Source: Laos EDP II, ICR




                                                   41
Annex 4: Project Impact Evaluation

116. The Project Development Objective was “To improve poor children's overall
development and readiness for further education, within a sustainable quality ECED system.”
Project outcome indicators were defined using specific child development scores including:
        a. DDTK Scores for children 0-3 and
        b. Locally-adapted Early Development Instrument (EDI) for children entering
           kindergarten or first grade of primary school.

117. As stated earlier, DDTK scores were not collected for children 0-3 due to the high costs
of doing so – both in terms of financial and human resources – nor were children entering
kindergarten or first grade of primary school routinely assessed using the Early Development
Instrument. Instead DDTK scores for younger children were proxied by a series of indicators
which looked at children’s growth and development from a variety of angles. This series of
indicators covers almost all the information that would have been collected had the DDTK been
used.

Table 4: Comparison on Domain in DDTK and ECED Project Indicators
 Domain                     DDTK Indicators                           ECED Project Indicators
 Child Growth
 Nutrient Status            Weight for Height                         Weight and Height
 Macrocephali               Head-Perimeter Measurement                N/A
 Microchephali              Head-Perimeter Measurement                N/A
 Child Development
 Developmental              Pra-Screening Questionnaire               EDI, SDQ, Child Task Performance,
 Delays                     (KPSP)                                    Card Sort, Drawing Task 26
 Seeing and Hearing
                            Seeing and Hearing Ability Tasks          EDI, Card Sort, Drawing Task
 Disorder
 Mental Emotional
 Mental and emotional       Mental Emotional Questionnaire
                                                                      EDI, SDQ
 Disorder                   (KMEE)
 Autism                     Checklist for Autism in Toddlers          N/A



26
   The EDI covers the following developmental domains; physical health and wellbeing, social competence,
emotional maturity, language and cognitive development and communication skills and general knowledge. The
Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ) covers 5 scales – emotional symptoms, conduct problems,
hyperactivity/ inattention, peer problems, and pro-social. The card sorting task is an indicator in scoring children
using card sorting games differentiated using color, shape, and border. Child also asked to draw a human/figure and
then a house. In baseline and midline, EDI is generated from Caregiver Questionnaire while in end-line it comes
from, both Teacher and Caregiver Questionnaire. For this purpose, the panel respondents (children) divide into 2
cohorts: 1- ≤2 years old and 4≤5 years old in baseline. More detail, below are key questions comparing DDTK and
EDI.

                                                        42
 Domain                  DDTK Indicators                      ECED Project Indicators
 Inattention and         Test of Inattention and
                                                              EDI, SDQ
 Hyperactivity           Hyperactivity (GPPH)

Table 5: Key Questions in DDTK and ECED Project Indicators (EDI and Child Performance Test)
Domain             DDTK Indicators                            ECED Project Indicators
Physical health & wellbeing
Age 1- ≤2 years    KPSP: Child can recognize the unknown      EDI: Child looks happy when being
old                person; looks doubtful or happy meeting    carried by someone he knows
                   the unknown person
                        • KPSP: Child can hold any                 • EDI: Child bites, holds, and
                            objects, for example beans or              observes any objects.
                            raisins.                               • Child Performance Test-CPT:
                        • KPSP: Put a pencil on your                   Child can easily pick up small
                            hand’s child, can you get it back          objects using a thumb and
                            easily?                                    another finger.
                        • Child walks by himself with or      EDI: Child walks by himself without
                            without holding to something.     assistance although he sometimes fall
                        • Child walks across the room with down
                            balance.
                   KPSP: Child sits by himself without help CPT: Child sits straight on his own
                                                              firmly
                   KPSP: Without holding on something,        EDI: Child has been well coordinated
                   can child bent down to pick up his toys    (for example, walking/running without
                   and stand back?                            stumbling on something)
                   KPSP: Child lifts his body into standing   CPT: Child lifts his body from sitting
                   position without help                      to standing position
                   KPSP: Child can walk backward (about 5 CPT: Child can walk backwards
                   steps or more without falling down)
Age 4- ≤5 years    KPSP: Child can stand on one foot          EDI: Child has been well coordinated
old                without holding on something               (for example, walking/running without
                                                              stumbling on something)
                   KPSP: Child can jump on one leg without CPT: Child can jump up on one leg
                   holding on something (2-3 times)           three times
                   KPSP: Child can draw circle                Child Performance Test-CPT: Child
                                                              can draw a circle
                   KPSP: Child can put on his clothes and     EDI: Child can use toilet/WC on
                   socks without any help                     his/her own (including taking off
                                                              pants/skirt and put it on again, passing
                                                              water/moving his/her bowels, clean
                                                              after his/herself and wash hands)?
                   KPSP: Child asked to define the color of   Card Sorting Games: Child asked to
                   pictures                                   order the cards based on color, shape,
                                                              and its combination
Social Competence
                   KPSP: Child can play together with his     EDI: Child can play or work together
                   peers and follow the rules                 with his friends.
                                                              EDI: Child respects other children.
                                                   43
Domain             DDTK Indicators                            ECED Project Indicators
                                                              EDI: Child obeys the rules and order.
Emotional Maturity Section SE Q28-57
                  KMEE: Child easily gets angry without       EDI: Child easily get angry/upset
                  particular reason
                  KMEE: Child acts solitaire; avoiding his    EDI: Child often like being alone, or
                  peers and family                            prefer to play alone
                  KMEE: Child has destructive behavior            • EDI: Child often kick, bite or
                                                                       hit other children or adults
                                                                  • EDI: Child often fight with
                                                                       other children
                                                                  • EDI: Child often argue with
                                                                       adults
                   KMEE: Child feels anxious                      • EDI: Child look afraid or
                                                                       anxious
                                                                  • EDI: Child feel scared easily
                       •   KMEE: Child has inattention or         • EDI: Child easily distracted or
                           easily distracted when doing                unable to concentrate in doing
                           something.                                  anything
                       •   GPPH: Child shows hyperactivity        • EDI: Child unable to sit still or
                           (easily get cry, easy to calm               calmly
                           down―often move his body,              • EDI: Child never stop moving,
                           etc.)                                       cannot be calm.
                                                                  • EDI: Child is easy to get cry.
                 KMEE: Child feels confused and               EDI: Child cannot make decision on
                 sometimes make him hard to                   something
                 communicate or making decision
                 KMEE: Child complaints on headache,          EDI: Child often complain of
                 stomachache, or other physical disorder      headache, stomachache or other aches
                 KPSP: If child is crying if the              CPT: Child cries when the caregiver
                 parent/caregiver go away from him            leaves
Language & Cog Skills Section BHS Q8-33
                 KPSP: Shows his body parts                   EDI: Name five of his body parts
                                                              when requested/told
                   KPSP: When given direction, child can      EDI: Follow simple and complicated
                   follow it. For example, put the paper on   directions
                   the floor
                   KPSP: Child can spell his name             EDI: Child can write his own name
                   KPSP: Child defines the longer line        EDI: Child can define higher number
                   between 2 lines in the picture             from 2 different numbers (for
                                                              example, 3 is higher than 2)
                 KPSP: Child asked to draw a cross line       Child asked to make any graffiti
                 KPSP: Roll a ball to the child, is he roll   Child push ball to make it roll
                 the ball back to you?
Communication Skills & general knowledge Section BHS Q1-7, Section SE Q26
                 KPSP: Child could answer the question.     EDI: Child knows the knowledge
                 For example, what do you do when you       about his surroundings. For example,

                                                 44
Domain              DDTK Indicators                               ECED Project Indicators
                    are hungry; if horse is gig then a mouse is   dog is barking; apple is a fruit; etc.
                    small, etc.                                   EDI: Child is curious with his
                                                                  surroundings and asking questions.

118. In addition, the locally adapted EDI was used as one of the key instruments in the impact
evaluation of the Project. While the EDI was used for the older cohort since the time of the
baseline, as the younger cohort out grew the DDTK proxies it was also used to measure their
development at end-line. Thus the older cohort was assessed using the EDI three times while the
younger cohort was assessed using the proxy indicators for the DDTK twice (at baseline and
midline) and using the EDI once (only at end-line).

119. Consequently, while the PDO cannot be measured according to the Key Indicators
originally stated in the PAD, reasonable conclusions on the achievement of the PDO can be
drawn using the multiple proxy indicators available.

120. The economic and financial analysis will assess whether the Project led to
a.     An increase in enrollment in ECED services.
b.     An improvement in “poor children’s overall development and readiness for further
education.”

121. Data from two sources are analyzed:
a.          The SUSENAS – a nationally representative household survey (which cover all 50
project districts as well as the rest of the districts in Indonesia)
b.          Data collected on two cohorts of children for the impact evaluation of the Project
(which covers 9 of the 50 project districts).

122. The analysis starts by looking at enrollment trends in project districts and comparing
them to enrollment trends in non-project districts using data from the SUSENAS. Next the
analysis exploits the availability of detailed observations on children’s outcomes collected as part
of the project impact evaluation to assess if there are any changes in these outcomes and whether
these changes can be attributed to the project.

123.   The following findings emerge and are discussed in detail below:

       •   The project led to an increase in enrollment in early childhood services.
       •   The project led to an increase in total years of schooling.
       •   The project led to an improvement in the physical health and well-being as well as the
           language and cognitive development of the 1-year-old cohort at endline.
       •   On average the data show that the project led to fewer improvements in development
           outcomes for the older cohort. However, when the data are disaggregated, they reveal
           that the average results mask substantial improvements for poorer children.

124. Taken together, the evidence from the impact evaluation suggests that exposure to the
Project improved “poor children's overall development and readiness for further education.” The

                                                  45
extent of the improvement in children’s outcomes that can be attributed to the Project varies
depending on the aspect of school readiness under consideration. It also varies depending on the
cohort of children being studied.

The impact of the Project on enrollment: results from the SUSENAS

125. The SUSENAS is a nationally representative household survey, which is conducted
annually. The July round of the survey is representative at the district level. We identify the 50
project districts in the SUSENAS and compare their ECED enrollment rates to those of the rest
of Indonesia. Table 1 shows that the scope and coverage of the question about ECED enrollment
has changed over time. However at any given point in time the definition is the same for project
and non-project districts.

Table 6: SUSENAS question on ECED enrollment and coverage
                                                      Question                            Age
  Year      Type of ECED
                                           July                     March             July March
  2001       TK, KB, TPA         Ever/currently enrolled    Ever/currently enrolled   3-6  3-6
  2002       TK, KB, TPA         Ever/currently enrolled    Ever/currently enrolled   3-6  3-6
  2003       TK, KB, TPA         Ever/currently enrolled    Ever/currently enrolled   3-6  3-6
  2004       TK, KB, TPA         Ever/currently enrolled    Ever/currently enrolled   3-6  3-6
  2005       TK, KB, TPA         Ever/currently enrolled    Ever/currently enrolled   3-6  3-6
             TK, KB, TPA,
  2006      POSPAUD, SPS         Ever/currently enrolled    Ever/currently enrolled   2-6   3-6
             TK, KB, TPA,           Ever or Currently
  2007         POSPAUD                   enrolled           Ever/currently enrolled   0-6   2-6
             TK, KB, TPA,
              POSPAUD,              Ever or Currently          Ever or Currently
  2008                                                                                0-6   0-6
           Religious PAUD,               enrolled                  enrolled
          BKB/Posyandu, SPS
             TK, KB, TPA,           Ever or Currently          Ever or Currently
  2009      POSPAUD, SPS                 enrolled                  enrolled           0-6   0-6
             TK, KB, TPA,           Ever or Currently          Ever or Currently
  2010      POSPAUD, SPS                 enrolled                  enrolled           0-6   0-6
             TK, KB, TPA,           Ever or Currently          Ever or Currently
  2011      POSPAUD, SPS               enrolled (*)                enrolled           0-6   0-6
             TK, KB, TPA,           Ever or Currently          Ever or Currently
  2012      POSPAUD, SPS                 enrolled                  enrolled           0-6   0-6
 (*) For year 2011 and 2012, data are pooled.

126. Looking at the results of this analysis we see that project districts tended to have lower
enrollment rates in the years prior to the Project. However, starting in 2008, there is a change in
the enrollment trends: project districts start to overtake non-project districts. The results looking
at children 0-6 are not particularly striking: there is an increase in enrollment rates in project
districts relative to non-project districts but this increase is not large. Disaggregating the trends
into those for 0-3 year olds and those for 4-6 year olds, a clearer picture emerges. The levels are


                                                  46
much lower for 0-3 year olds but even here there is a perceptible increase in enrollment rates for
project districts that is not apparent for non-project districts.

127. Before the Project, the enrollment rates for 4-6 year olds in project districts are
consistently lower than the enrollment rates for 4-6 year olds in non-project districts – by about
4-7 percentage points each year from 2001 – 2007 when the survey questionnaire changes.
However, starting in 2008, enrollment rates in project districts begin to overtake enrollment rates
in non-project districts. By 2009, which is around the time that project centers started operating,
we see enrollment rates in project districts are 1 percentage point higher than in non-project
districts. By 2012 project districts report enrollment rates that are about 2 percentage points
higher than non-project districts.

128. These impacts appear small at first glance. However, it is important to remember that the
Project was only active in 60 villages per district. Thus the fact that impacts on enrollment are
visible at the district level is an encouraging sign of impacts taking place at the village level. Put
another way, the district level impacts are averaging over all children in a district, those who are
living in villages with the Project and those who are living in villages without the Project. As
such, it would be unlikely to see this trend if there was no impact taking place in project villages.




                                                 47
Figure 2: Enrollment in project districts relative to non-project districts
                                                All children 0-6
                                                                                                                               Year of data
                                                                                                      2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
                                                                                                 50


                                                                                                 40




                                                                              Percent enrolled
                                                                                                 30
                                                                                                                                                  18
                                                                                                       15                                  15                                                                           16
                                                                                                 20             14       14       13                                                                14        15
                                                                                                                                                                                          13
                                                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        18
                                                                                                 10                                               15                                                16        16
                                                                                                                                                                                          14
                                                                                                       12                         12       12
                                                                                                                11       11
                                                                                                                                                       9
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                     Before ECED project                                               After ECED project
                                                                                                                                       Relative Time

                                                                                                                              Project Districts                                Non-project Districts
                                                                                                       Net enrollment rate: Children aged 0-6




                                                      Children 0-3                                                                                                                                                  Children 4-6
                                                    Year of data                                                                                                                                             Year of data
                           2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012                                                                                              2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
                      50                                                                                                                                                       50


                      40                                                                                                                                                       40                                                 33
                                                                                                                                                                                     31                                                                                  32
   Percent enrolled




                                                                                                                                                            Percent enrolled
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             29                                     30
                                                                                                                                                                                               28        28        27                                     28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26
                      30                                                                                                                                                       30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       21                       32       33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30
                      20                                                                                                                                                       20                                                 27               27
                                                                                                                                                                                     24                            23
                                                                                                                                                                                                         22                  23
                                                                                                                                                                                               21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       19
                      10    3                                 3       4
                                                                                                            2        3        3        3                                       10
                                     2       2       2                    2


                      0                                                                                              6                 6                                       0
                                                                      4                                     4                 4
                            3               2     2    3             2
                                     2   Before ECED project                                             After ECED project                                                                         Before ECED project                          After ECED project
                                                           Relative Time                                                                                                                                              Relative Time

                                                  Project Districts                              Non-project Districts                                                                                        Project Districts             Non-project Districts
                            Net enrollment rate: Children aged 0-3                                                                                                                   Net enrollment rate: Children aged 4-6




                                                                                                  Source: SUSENAS July, 2001-2012

Robustness checks on results from the SUSENAS

129. Next we exploit the fact that the project was implemented in predominantly rural areas to
test whether this approach (looking at district tends) is a meaningful way of assessing the
project’s impact. If it is, we should see little or no change in the enrollment trends for urban areas
in project districts but we should see some changes in the trends of the rural areas of project
districts. Given that the enrollment rates of 0-3 year olds are very low and do not vary much over
between 2001-2012, we focus the remainder of the SUSENAS analysis on enrollment rates of 4-
6 year olds only.

130. Figure 2 confirms the hypothesis just described . There is little or no change in the
relative gap between urban areas of project and non-project districts between 2007-2012. Given
that the project operated in rural areas, none was expected. However, for rural children, we
expected to see a change in enrollment trends after the project began. We see that before the
project began enrollment rates were lower for rural areas in the project districts – about 2
percentage points lower. In 2007 they are virtually the same. By 2009, a gap emerges – rural
areas in project districts have enrollment rates that are 4 percentage points higher than rural areas
in non-project areas. In 2011 and 2012 a gap of 4-5 percentage points continues to be discernible.
                                                                                                                                                48
Figure 3: Enrollment project districts relative to non-project districts: Urban areas versus rural areas
                 Urban children 4-6                                         Rural children 4-6
                                                     Year of data                                                                                                         Year of data
                            2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012                                                          2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012

                       50                                                                                                                   50
                                                                       42
                             39
                       40                                                                                                                   40
                                     36      36       36      35                                               37




                                                                                                                         Percent enrolled
                                                      37
    Percent enrolled




                                     37                                                         33        33   37                                                                                                         31    31
                                                                                         31     34        34                                                                                                        29
                                              33                       33                33                                                 30
                       30    31                                                                                                                                                             25               25
                                                              29            25
                                                                                                                                                  22                                        28                                  27
                                                                            26                                                                                     20               21                                    26
                                                                                                                                                  25                       20       24
                                                                                                                                            20            18                                                        23
                                                                                                                                                                   22                            17
                       20                                                                                                                                 20
                                                                                                                                                                           21                                21
                                                                                                                                                                                                 18

                       10                                                                                                                   10


                       0                                                                                                                    0

                                          Before ECED project                          After ECED project                                                      Before ECED project                         After ECED project
                                                            Relative Time                                                                                                        Relative Time

                                                   Project Districts              Non-project Districts                                                                 Project Districts             Non-project Districts
                                                                                                                                                  Enrollment rate: Rural children age 4-6
                             Enrollment rate: Urban children age 4-6



                                                                                 Source: SUSENAS July, 2001 – 2012.

131. A second check on the results exploits the stated objective of the project to focus on poor
children. We therefore examine the trends in enrollemnt rates across quintiles of the consumption
distribution separately for urban and rural areas. As before, the hypothesis is that if there is an
impact of the project, it should lead to an increase in enrollment rates for poorer quintiles in rural
areas while there should be no discernible trend for poorer quintiles in the urban areas. It is
important to remember that this is pushing the SUSENAS data beyond the use for which it was
intended. Data are not intended to be representative of quintiles at the urban and rural level. Thus
readers are cautioned against putting too much emphasis on the specific levels of enrollment in
any given year and instead focussing on the differences in trends across quintiles in urban and
rural areas.

132. Figure 3 reveals consistent increases in enrollment rates for the first four quintiles in the
rural areas. In the case of the fifth quintile (the richest 20 percent), there seems to have been no
impact – as expected if the project was successful in focusing on poorer children. In contrast
there is no consistent pattern in the enrollment rates for any of the quintiles in the urban areas.
Together Figures 1 – 3 suggest that the project increased enrolment, that it did so in rural
areas and that it did so more for poorer quintiles in rural areas than for the richest quintile.




                                                                                                                    49
Figure 4: Enrollment in project districts relative to non-project districts by quintile and urban-rural areas
            Children 4- 6: Quintile 1 Urban                                  Children 4- 6: Quintile 1 Rural
                                                        Year of data                                                                                                           Year of data
                               2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012                                                            2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
                          50                                                                                                                     50
                                                                                                                   43

                          40                                                                                                                     40
       Percent enrolled




                                                                                                                             Percent enrolled
                                                                                                                   35                                                                                                                         29
                                                                                                             29
                          30                                      27                                   28                                        30                                                                                  28
                                30      25                25               30                   26                                                                                                                             25
                                24      28       24                                                                                                                                                                                           28
                                                 27               26       22                                                                                                                      21                   21
                                                          25                        20                       25                                        19
                                                                                                24     23                                                                                 18
                          20                                                                                                                     20                     16                21       21
                                                                                                                                                       21                        16                                            20        20
                                                                                    19                                                                         14                                           14
                                                                                                                                                                        18       18                                     17
                                                                                                                                                               15
                          10                                                                                                                     10                                                         14



                          0                                                                                                                      0
                                             Before ECED project                              After ECED project                                                     Before ECED project                              After ECED project
                                                               Relative Time                                                                                                           Relative Time

                                                      Project Districts                  Non-project Districts                                                                Project Districts                  Non-project Districts
                                Enrollment rate of urban children aged 4-6: Quintile 1                                                                 Enrollment rate of rural children aged 4-6: Quintile 1




                                Children 4- 6: Quintile 2 Urban                                                                                         Children 4- 6: Quintile 2 Rural
                                                        Year of data                                                                                                           Year of data
                               2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012                                                            2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
                          50                                                                                                                     50


                          40                              38                                                                                     40
                                                                                                35
       Percent enrolled




                                                                                                                             Percent enrolled
                                                                           32
                                                                           36                                32                                                                                                                               32
                                        30                                                             30          35                                                                                                          30    30
                                29                                                                                 29
                          30    33               27                                 26                       31                                  30
                                        30       30       30      30                                                                                                                               25                   24
                                                                  24                                   28                                              22      21                         22                                             27
                                                                                                25                                                                      20       20                25                                         25
                          20                                                                                                                     20    23
                                                                                                                                                                                          21
                                                                                                                                                                                                            18                 22
                                                                                    21                                                                                  20       21                                     20
                                                                                                                                                               20
                                                                                                                                                                                                            17
                          10                                                                                                                     10


                          0                                                                                                                      0
                                             Before ECED project                              After ECED project                                                     Before ECED project                              After ECED project
                                                               Relative Time                                                                                                           Relative Time
                                                      Project Districts                  Non-project Districts                                                                Project Districts                  Non-project Districts
                                Enrollment rate of urban children aged 4-6: Quintile 2                                                                 Enrollment rate of rural children aged 4-6: Quintile 2




                                Children 4- 6: Quintile 3 Urban                                                                                         Children 4- 6: Quintile 3 Rural
                                                        Year of data                                                                                                           Year of data
                               2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012                                                            2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
                          50                                                                                                                     50
                                                                                                                   43
                                                          39               43
                          40                                                                                                                     40                                                                                  36
                                        34                                                      34
       Percent enrolled




                                                                                                             34
                                                                                                                              Percent enrolled




                                33                                         33                                      38
                                37                                32                                         36                                                                                                                               32
                                        35                35                                                                                                                                       30                   30     30
                                                 28
                                                 33               34                                   29
                          30                                                                           32                                        30                                                31
                                                                                                29                                                     24                                 25
                                                                                    24                                                                 29               24
                                                                                                                                                               22                22                                                      28
                                                                                                                                                                                          25                20          24     24             24
                          20                                                        24                                                                                           23
                                                                                                                                                 20             22      23
                                                                                                                                                                                                            18

                          10                                                                                                                     10


                          0                                                                                                                       0
                                             Before ECED project                              After ECED project                                                     Before ECED project                              After ECED project
                                                               Relative Time                                                                                                           Relative Time

                                                      Project Districts                  Non-project Districts                                                                Project Districts                  Non-project Districts
                                Enrollment rate of urban children aged 4-6: Quintile 3                                                                 Enrollment rate of rural children aged 4-6: Quintile 3




                                                                                                                        50
Figure 4 contd.: Enrollment in project districts relative to non-project districts by quintile and urban-rural areas
            Children 4- 6: Quintile 4 Urban                                 Children 4- 6: Quintile 4 Rural
                                                        Year of data                                                                                                          Year of data
                               2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012                                                           2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
                          50                              47               46                                                                   50
                                        45                                                             45
                                                                           46                                42                                                                                                                     42
                                45
                          40    37      43       37                                                                                             40
                                                          40      40                                               35                                 35                                          35                          36
                                                                                                             39
       Percent enrolled




                                                                                                                             Percent enrolled
                                                 38                                 32          33     37          38                                                                                                  33                    32
                                                                  31                                                                                          32                31
                                                                                                34                                                                                       30       34
                          30                                                                                                                    30                     27                32
                                                                                                                                                      31                                                                                30
                                                                                    28                                                                                                                                        29
                                                                                                                                                              27                                                       27                    28
                                                                                                                                                                                26
                                                                                                                                                                       25                                  19
                          20                                                                                                                    20                                                         23



                          10                                                                                                                    10


                          0                                                                                                                     0
                                             Before ECED project                              After ECED project                                                    Before ECED project                              After ECED project
                                                               Relative Time                                                                                                          Relative Time

                                                      Project Districts                  Non-project Districts                                                               Project Districts                  Non-project Districts
                                Enrollment rate of urban children aged 4-6: Quintile 4                                                                Enrollment rate of rural children aged 4-6: Quintile 4




                                Children 4- 6: Quintile 5 Urban                                                                                        Children 4- 6: Quintile 5 Rural
                                                        Year of data                                                                                                          Year of data
                               2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012                                                           2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
                                        58
                                                 54                                                                                             50
                                                                           50                                                                                                   44                                                  44
                                                                           54                                                                                                                     42                   42
                          50    47                                                                                                                                                                                            41
                                52      52                46                                           45                                                                                40
                                                          49      50                                                                            40            37
                                                 47               41                                               40                                                  35                40       41
                                                                                    40
       Percent enrolled




                                                                                                                             Percent enrolled
                                                                                                             44                                                                                                                              34
                          40                                                                    37           38                                       32                                                   32                           37
                                                                                                       40                                                     34                35                                            34
                                                                                                38                 37                           30    31               31
                          30                                                        34                                                                                                                                 29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             27
                                                                                                                                                                                                           25
                                                                                                                                                20
                          20

                          10                                                                                                                    10


                          0                                                                                                                     0
                                             Before ECED project                              After ECED project                                                    Before ECED project                              After ECED project
                                                               Relative Time                                                                                                          Relative Time

                                                      Project Districts                  Non-project Districts                                                               Project Districts                  Non-project Districts
                                Enrollment rate of urban children aged 4-6: Quintile 5                                                                Enrollment rate of rural children aged 4-6: Quintile 5




     The impact of the Project on child development outcomes: results from the project Impact
     Evaluation

     133. The Project impact evaluation (IE) has followed the lives and development outcomes of
     two cohorts of children living in 310 villages located in 9 of the Project’s 50 districts (18 percent
     of project districts). These cohorts were aged 1- and 4-years-old respectively when they were
     first observed in 2009. They were followed and re-interviewed in 2010 and 2013.

     134. While the original intent of the Project had been to offer services to all children ages 0–6,
     in practice, the most common form of service provision selected by communities was the
     establishment of a playgroup for four to six-year-olds, typically offered two hours a day, three
     times a week. The package of services offered at the community level (community facilitation,
     block grants, teacher training and playgroups) is effectively the intervention evaluated in the
     economic and financial analysis.

     135. As with any randomized impact evaluation, the design was based on a number of
     assumptions – ranging from assumptions about minimally detectable effect sizes to
     assumptions about how project implementation would unfold, which services communities
                                                                                                                        51
would opt for and how project managers, parents and children would respond to the
provision of these services. At different points in time, various assumptions in the design were
violated (Pradhan et. al., 2013). Each time this happened, the evaluation’s ability to detect an
impact of the magnitude envisioned in the design was undermined. As a result, fewer outcomes
can be statistically distinguished from zero than the architects of the evaluation had envisioned at
the outset. It could be that the project had impacts (positive or negative) on dimensions other
than those reported here. However, those impacts are too small to be detected by the data at our
disposal.

The Evaluation Design

136. Given the scope of the Project, the Government originally decided to roll out
implementation in three batches roughly nine months apart. Thus during the design of the
evaluation the decision was made to randomly assign villages to planned phases of the Project.
Analysts worked with the government to hold a public lottery and assign some villages randomly
to the first batch - batch 1 (100 villages) and some villages to the last batch - batch 3 (120
villages). Villages in the second batch (batch 2) were not included in the evaluation since it was
felt that nine months was too little time to gauge the impact of such an intervention.

137. Thus according to this design some villages were randomly assigned to control group
status but only for 18 months. At the end of this period, batch 3 villages also received the
intervention. Given that after this period, there would be no villages without the intervention,
analysts also collected information on a group of villages that would never receive the project
(90 villages). These villages were not randomly selected. Instead they were identified by
government officials as being similar to the villages that had been randomly assigned to batches
1 and 3. Together these three groups of villages (batch 1, batch 3 and villages that never received
the project) constitute the source of the data used in the impact evaluation.

The Evaluation in Practice

138. Due to issues with timing of budget disbursements, in reality the design above was not
adhered to. In reality the government rolled out the program in two phases. The first roll out
comprised what was originally referred to as batch 1 and roughly half of batch 2. The second roll
out comprised the remaining half of batch 2 and batch 3. Given that project implementation
deviated from its original design, for the purposes of the evaluation, we use actual date of funds
disbursal to confirm when villages actually received the project. As a result, we end up with 105
villages in batch 1 and 112 villages in batch 3. The remaining 93 villages never received the
project. Thus the evaluation in practice only has small deviations from the evaluation in design.27
Figure 4 depicts the evaluation as it was designed and as it was implemented.

Implications for analysis and interpretation



27
     See tests of balance between original and actual batches as reported in Hasan, Hyson and Chang (eds.), 2013.


                                                                 52
139. In addition to these deviations from the randomized control trial design, another
consideration for the analysis are the power calculations which were undertaken to decide
reasonable sample sizes. This evaluation was designed using point estimates from a highly
successful impact evaluation conducted in the Philippines. In that evaluation, researchers found
estimates of impact that ranged from 0.3 standard deviations to 1 standard deviation. These are
large impacts. Based on these large impacts, the evaluation design assumed a certain sample size
in order to be able to detect similarly large impacts with a reasonable degree of accuracy. In the
event that the assumptions of the power calculations are violated it is possible for the evaluation
to find no effect even when one does in fact exist. Therefore, we adjust our analysis below in a
number of ways to see if we can detect effects.

The Timing of Survey Data Collection

140. The analysis in this ICR is based on three rounds of data – a baseline survey which was
conducted from March to June 2009, the first follow-up survey which was conducted
approximately 14 months later from July to August 2010 and the second follow-up survey which
was conducted between January–May 2013. There were discrepancies between the timing of the
surveys and project implementation – these are depicted in Figure 4. As a result, villages in batch
1 had already implemented the ECED project for about 6 months by the time the baseline survey
was fielded. Likewise, villages in batch 3 (which had not received the ECED project at baseline)
started implementation about nine months before the follow-up survey was fielded. Villages
without the project had no services provided through the project either at baseline or at follow-up.
In each village, data were collected on households, caregivers and children’s development
outcomes.




                                                53
Figure 5: The timeline of the impact evaluation


                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Batch 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               receives
 The evaluation as designed




                                             A lottery is held which assigns villages to one                                                                                                                                 project - in
                                            of 3 batches. In addition a group of villages are                                                          Batch 2                                                             the evaluation
                                                identified that are similar to the villages       Batch 1 receives project - in                        receives                                                               this is the
                                 Project
                                             included in the lottery. In the evaluation these    evaluation this is the treatment                    project - not                                                         control group.
                                 timeline
                                               are the comparison group villages. Data is                    group                                   included in                                                           Not treated for
                                              collected on these villages in both rounds of                                                           evaluation                                                               first 18
                                                                the survey                                                                                                                                                     months.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Subsequently
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               treated.


                                  Survey                                                                                                                                                                 Second round of
                                                     First round of survey fielded
                                 timeline                                                                                                                                                                 survey fielded
                                                                                                                                      6 months         9 months                                                             18 months
                                                                                                                                                                                                         12 months after                     20 months after
                                  Time             6 months before project starts                        Project starts             after project    after project   11 months after project starts                        after project
                                                                                                                                                                                                          project starts                      project starts
                                                                                                                                        starts           starts                                                                starts
                                  Survey                                                                                            First round of                                                                                           Second round of
                                                          No survey is fielded
                                 timeline                                                                                           survey fielded                                                                                            survey fielded
 The evaluation as implemented




                                                                                                                                                                         Batch 3
                                                                                                                                                                         receives
                                                                                                                                                                                         Remaining
                                                                                                    Batch 1        Some Batch 2                                        project - in
                                                                                                                                                                                            Batch 2
                                             A lottery is held which assigns villages to one        receives           villages                                      the evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                            villages
                                            of 3 batches. In addition a group of villages are     project - in       receive the                                        this is the
                                 Project                                                                                                                                                  receive the
                                                identified that are similar to the villages     evaluation this    project ahead                                     control group.
                                 timeline                                                                                                                                              project behind
                                             included in the lottery. In the evaluation these        is the         of schedule.                                     Not treated for
                                                                                                                                                                                        schedule. Not
                                                   are the comparison group villages.              treatment       Not included                                          first 11
                                                                                                                                                                                       included in the
                                                                                                     group         in evaluation.                                        months.
                                                                                                                                                                                          evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                      Subsequently
                                                                                                                                                                         treated.




                                                                                                                                            54
The Measures

141. Child development was assessed using an extensive array of internationally-validated and
locally-adapted 28 child development measures including:

          a. The short version of the Early Development Instrument (EDI);
          b. The Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ);
          c. Height and weight measurements;
          d. Demonstrations of child skills (and mother reports of these skills), drawing on a study
             conducted by the University of San Carlos Office of Population Studies;
          e. Tests of executive function using the Dimensional Change Card Sorting (DCCS)
             game;
          f. Drawing tasks (based on the Draw-a-Man test);
          g. Expressive and receptive language tasks.

142. Several of the measures above assess multiple domains of child development. A higher
score is better for all measures except for the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ)
where lower scores are better and represent fewer difficulties. 29

143. While a large number of domains of development were tracked, not all can be influenced
by the interventions being studied in this evaluation. For instance, while height and weight
measurements were taken, there was little to no intervention on nutrition. As such, there is little
expectation that there would be an impact on this front. For other channels which reduce the
ability to detect an impact see Table 2.

The Children

144. The original raw data contain information on two cohorts of children in 310 villages:
children who were one year old and those who were four years old in 2009 (when baseline data
were collected). These children were followed and re-observed in 2010 when they were two and
five years old, respectively. Given the Project’s focus on children between birth and the age of
six, analysts considered that following these cohorts would allow us to understand the trajectory
of child development in the age range of interest: 0–6.

145. In the time that elapsed between baseline and endline, the 1 year old cohort outgrew
many of the measures that had been used to assess their development in the first two rounds of
the evaluation. Thus at endline they were assessed using the Early Development Instrument. This


28
     For details on how instruments were adapted and tested, see Pradhan et. al. (2013).
29
   This is true of all SDQ domains. Typically one domain is reverse-scored but in this paper, we have
aligned all SDQ domains in the same direction for ease of interpretation. Appendix Table 1 provides
details on each of these measures of development.




                                                      55
change in the outcome measure necessitates that the analyses be conducted separately for the two
cohorts.

146. The economic and financial analysis focuses on whether the package of interventions
deployed by the project (community facilitation, block grants, teacher training and playgroups)
had any impact on children’s development and readiness for further education.

The estimations

147. For the four year old cohort, intent to treat estimates of impact are estimated using a
difference-in-difference approach. 30 Empirically this involves estimating the following statistical
model:

                (1)    = 0 +  1 + 2 2 + 3 3 +  2 4 +  3 5 +   +  .
148. Where yit are child development outcomes at baseline (t=1) and subsequent follow-ups
(t=2 and t=3) for a child i. Di is the dummy variable indicating 1 for batch 3 and 0 for the
comparison group while T2 is the dummy variable denoting the midline and T3 is the dummy
variable denoting the endline. Thus, δ1 captures the difference between batch 3 and villages
without the project at the baseline. If villages in the comparison group are comparable with those
from batch 3 in terms of child development outcomes and ECED enrollment, this estimate
should be close to 0. On the other hand, δ2 captures the age effect on child outcomes between
baseline and midline, while δ3 captures the age effect between baseline and endline. These
capture the changes in children’s outcomes as they get older regardless of the ECED project. The
time difference is about 14 months at midline and 34 months at endline. Di T2 and Di T3 are
interaction terms between the intervention group dummy and the time dummies. Thus, δ4
indicates the impact of the ECED project between baseline and midline while δ5 captures the
impact of the project between baseline and endline. xi is a vector of explanatory variables that
include caregiver, household, and child characteristics. 31 We use robust standard errors clustered
at the village level. We also run a fixed effects model on regression (1), which controls for all
observed and unobserved time-invariant child characteristics. Our results from these fixed effects
estimations are reported on below.

149. From a practical standpoint this estimation strategy compares the changes in development
outcomes for children living in project villages to the changes in development outcomes for
children living in non-project villages. The validity of this strategy rests on the assumption that if
the project had no effect or if there had been no project, the differences between project and non-
project villages seen at baseline should also be seen at follow-up.



30
  This analysis only includes children from Batch 3 villages for whom we have a clean baseline.
Their outcomes are compared to those of children living in villages without the project.
31
  We control for caregiver, household, and child characteristics as follows: we include variables for child’s gender,
age, household size and composition, caregiver’s depression scores, household wealth measured using an asset index
and caregiver’s education level.


                                                               56
150. It is important to note that the estimated impact of the Project on the average child is not
the impact on children who are necessarily enrolled in project-provided services but rather it is
the impact on children who were offered the chance to enroll in the project-provided services.
This estimated impact is more relevant for policy makers since most social programs are based
on voluntary participation of eligible individuals.

151. For the one year old cohort, given the fact that we only have one round of EDI, we adjust
our analysis and estimate the following model:

              (2) yij = I[Project village = 1] ∗ β1 + ∑9
                                                       j=2 I[District = j] ∗ βj + ϵ


152. Where yij indicates the outcome for child i in village j . There are two enrolment
outcomes: (1) whether or not a child has ever enrolled in one of the following types of services
between 2008 and 2013: a project provided playgroup, non-project playgroup, a kindergarten
run by MoEC or a kindergarten run by the MoRA and (2) how long a child has been enrolled in
each type of service. We control for child, household and background characteristics as follows.
We include child’s age, gender, household size, household wealth (measured using an asset
index) and a series of indicator variables indicating mother’s level of education. In order to
control for child’s background, controls were included for whether or not the child is stunted
(and if so whether the stunting is moderate or severe) and for whether or not the child is wasted.
Lastly, we have detailed information on parenting practices which are also included. For all
models we report robust standard errors clustered at the village level.

The results

153. While we run separate analyses it is important to remember that the two cohorts together
paint the full picture of project impact. We thus report the results at end-line for the cohorts
together for ease of comparison.

154. The project led to an increase in enrollment in early childhood services. This increase
was substantial and ranged between 7.2 percentage points for the 4 year old cohort and 15.7
percentage points for the 1 year old cohort. In interpreting these results, it is important to
remember that children in these villages could have attended a variety of services.
Disaggregating enrollment rates by type of service reveals evidence that there was some
switching between different types of services. The numbers shown below suggest that switching
away from kindergarten to project playgroups was a more common phenomenon for 4-year-olds
than 1-year-olds. In contrast, switching away from non-project playgroups to project playgroups
was a more common phenomenon for 1-year-olds. The fact that the overall impacts on
enrollment are positive for both groups suggests that children who would not have otherwise
enrolled have enrolled as a result of the access provided by the project.




                                               57
 Figure 6: The project led to an increase in enrollment rates
                                                                                  Non-project
                                                 Overall      Any playgroups      playgroups     Any kindergartens
                                   0.600***                        0.556***
 Proportion of chidlren enrolled




                                   0.500***
                                   0.400***
                                   0.300***
                                                              0.199***
                                   0.200***        0.157***
                                   0.100***   0.072***

                                   0.000***
                           -0.100***
                                                                                -0.069***              -0.091***
                           -0.200***                                                              -0.131***
                           -0.300***                                                 -0.233***
                                                               4 year olds     1 year olds

 Note: Results for 4 year olds correspond to 5 in equation (1). Results for 1 year olds
 correspond to 1in equation (2)

155. The project led to an increase in total years of schooling. Those who live in project
villages attended ECED services for longer than those who live in non-project villages. On
average, this was 1.4 additional months (0.1 years) for the 4 year old cohort and 4.9 additional
months (0.4 years) for the 1 year old cohort. As with enrollment, unpacking the overall results
shows that children spend on average 2.9 - 8.6 more months in playgroups in project villages
than they do in non-project villages – depending on the cohort. The 1-year-old cohort is more
likely to have benefited from the project than the 4-year-old cohort given their age when the
project started. This is clearly seen in these results.




                                                                         58
 Figure 7: The project led to an increase in months of enrollment
                                                                    Non-project               Any
                                        Overall    Any playgroups   playgroups           kindergartens
                        10.0***
                                                         8.6***
                            8.0***

                            6.0***        4.9***
     Months of enrollment




                            4.0***                  2.9***

                            2.0***    1.4***

                            0.0***
                                                                         -0.3***               -0.6***
                            -2.0***                                 -0.9***
                                                                                          -1.5***
                                                      4 year olds   1 year olds
                            -4.0***

 156. Consequently, when we compare the changes in child development outcomes in project
 villages to changes in child development outcomes in non-project villages we find small and
 statistically insignificant impacts. This is true across the entire range of child and parenting
 practices outcomes considered. All estimates are presented in Tables 3- 8. We examine
 children’s development using the Early Development Instrument, the Strengths and Difficulties
 Questionnaire, their heights and weights as well the practices of their parents. In general we
 find no evidence of any impact on child development outcomes when we look at all
 children in a village.

 157. The project led to an improvement in the physical health and well-being as well as
 the language and cognitive development of the 1-year-old cohort at endline. This cohort of
 children outgrew the development measures used to assess them at the time of the baseline.
 Thus at the endline, they were assessed using a locally adapted version of the Early
 Development Instrument. This is the same instrument that has been administered to the older
 cohort in past rounds of the IE.

 158. On average the data show that the project led to fewer improvements in
 development outcomes for the older cohort. There is an increase in the emotional maturity of
 the older cohort of children but the remaining point estimates though positively signed are not
 statistically distinguishable from zero. 32




32
 This lack of statistical significance is a reflection of the fact that the evaluation was designed to be able to detect a
minimum effect size which several of the estimates do not cross.


                                                               59
Figure 8: The project led to an improvement in children’s outcomes
                                                                                               Language and Communications
                                            Physical Health      Social         Emotional        cognitive    and general
                                            and Well-being    competence         Maturity      development    knowledge
                                0.200***
                                                                                   0.172**
                                            0.160***
                                0.150***
     Standard Deviation Units




                                                   0.117                                       0.123***

                                0.100***
                                                                                                              0.068
                                                              0.049                                 0.046
                                0.050***
                                                                  0.017                                           0.014
                                0.000***


                                -0.050***                                       -0.025

                                                                1 year olds      4 year olds


159. However, when the data are disaggregated, they reveal that the average results
   mask substantial improvements for poorer children. There is compelling evidence that
   the project led to improvements in poorer children’s social competence, language and
   cognitive development as well as emotional maturity. 33




33
  These results are robust to alternative approaches. Comparing the evolution of outcomes between children whose
parents report having poor parenting practices at baselines reveals a similar story. Together these results are
consistent with the project having improved outcomes for the most vulnerable groups.


                                                                           60
Figure 9: For the older cohort, average impacts masks improvements for poorer children
                                                                                           Language and Communications
                                         Physical Health      Social        Emotional        cognitive    and general
                                         and Well-being    competence        Maturity      development    knowledge
                                 0.300
                                                              0.243**           0.236**
      Standard Deviation Units




                                 0.250

                                 0.200                                     0.172**
                                                0.162
                                                                                               0.140***
                                 0.150     0.117
                                 0.100
                                                                                            0.046             0.051
                                 0.050                     0.017                                          0.014
                                 0.000

                                                                   All   Poor households


Conclusions

160. The two cohorts of children studied in the IE provide complementary evidence on the
impact of the project. While several moderately sized development impacts were found, the
strongest evidence of an impact across all analyses is for improvements in children’s language
and cognitive development. This domain was found to be the weakest for children in rural
Indonesia when baseline assessments of the children were conducted in 2009 and is one of the
domains most strongly associated with school readiness.

161. Taken together, the evidence from the impact evaluation suggests that exposure to the
Project improved “poor children's overall development and readiness for further education.” The
extent of the improvement in children’s outcomes that can be attributed to the Project varies
depending on the aspect of school readiness under consideration. It also varies depending on the
cohort of children being studied.




                                                                           61
Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                  Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Christopher Thomas        Sector Manager                       EASHE
Mae Chu Chang             TTL                                  EASHE
Susiana Iskandar          Co-TTL                               EASHE
Vincente Paqueo           Consultant                           EASHE
Sophie Naudeau            Senior Education Specialist          AFTEE
Richard Cibulski                                               EASSD
Raj Soopramanien                                               LEGEA
Luc Lecuit                                                     EAPCO
Rizal Rivai               Procurement Specialist               EAPCO
Steve Burgess                                                  EASSD
Ratna Kesuma              Senior Operations Officer            EASHE
Marion Carey Hyson        ECED Consultant
Charles Chandler          EAP Quality Team
Fadia Saadah              HNP Sector Manager                   EASHD
Supervision/ICR
Mae Chu Chang             Lead General Educator                EASHE
Cristobal Ridao-Cano      Country Sector Coordinator           EASHS
Susiana Iskandar          Senior Education Specialist          EASHE
Rosfita Roesli            Senior Education Specialist          EASHE
Menno Prasad Pradhan      Co-TTL                               EASHE
Rosfita Roesli            Senior Operations Officer            EASHE
Rizal Rivai               Senior Procurement Specialist        EASHE
Novira Asra               Financial Management Specialist      EAPCO
Titie Hadiyati            Consultant
Puspavalli Namasivayam    ECED Consultant
Erika Dunkelburg          ECED Consultant
Moesijanti Soekatri       Nutrition Specialist
Paulus Bagus Tjahjanto    Procurement Specialist
Ratna Josodipoero         CDD Specialist
Djoko Hartono             Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist
Amin Robiarto             Consultant
Sally Brinkman            Consultant
Deddy Junaedi             Consultant
Megha Kapoor              Consultant
Amanda Beatty             Impact Evaluation Specialist
Rima Artha                Research Analyst



                                          62
Hafid Alatas                 Operations Assistant
Dandan Chen                  Economist                            EASHE
Amer Hasan                   Education Economist                  EASHE
Novira Kusdarti Asra         Sr Financial Management Specialist   EASFM
Djoko Hartono                M&E Consultant                       EASHE
Joppe Jaitze De Ree          Consultant Research Analyst          EASHD
Budi Permana                 Procurement Specialist               EASR1
Husnul Rizal                 Research Assistant                   EASHE
Isono Sadoko                 Consultant                           EASID
Tukiman Tarunasayoga         Consultant
Mayla Safuro Lestari Putri   Consultant Research Analyst          EASHE
Dedy Junaedy                 Consultant                           EASHE
Upik Sabainingrum            Consultant                           EASHE
Anas Sutisna                 Consultant                           EASHE
Lulus Kusbudihardjo          Consultant                           EASHE
Mulyana                      Consultant                           EASHE
Haeil Jung                   Consultant                           EASHE
Angela Kinnell               Consultant                           EASHE
Sally Brinkman               Consultant                           EASHE
Marion Carey Hyson           Consultant                           EASHE
GB Surya Ningnagara          Team Assistant                       EACIF


b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 FY05                                        19.71                        100.26
 FY06                                        66.06                        295.93
 FY07                                       N/A                             2.26
                             Total:          85.77                        398.45
Supervision/ICR
 FY07                                         25.63                        73.51
 FY08                                         14.39                        42.48
 FY09                                         31.57                        64.87
 FY10                                         49.52                        96.01
 FY11                                         36.10                        95.41
 FY12                                         46.15                       118.85
 FY13                                         44.46                       124.51
 FY14                                         36.45                       111.31
                             Total:          284.27                       726.95


                                            63
Annex6. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable




                                     64
Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                        65
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Considered Successful Outcomes

162. Early Childhood Education and Development (ECED) Program is an embodiment of
government’s strategy to ensure that all children age 0-6 years from economically disadvantaged
family living in rural area can participate. The children will receive benefits from integrated non-
formal ECED service, so they too can grow just like children from well-off families. ECED
program employs two strategies: (1) Community Capacity Building by implementation of
community based approach to build community participation in developing an ECED center that
is based on local potential and local wisdom; and (2) Local Government Capacity Building by
implementation of Institutional Capacity Building approach. Achievements of each Activity
Component are:

163. Improvement of Integrated ECED Services for the Poor. Achievements of component
1 are:
       • 32 people were trained for 700 training hours as NEST (National Early Childhood
         Specialist Team) members, and established 10 people as CDD (Community Driven
         Development) NEST members, provision of regional consultants (RMC) for regions
         1 and 4, as well as provision of district consultants to provide managerial support at
         the regional level.
       • NEST and CDD NEST had trained 192 people as Master Trainers at provincial and
         district levels, and 658 people as Community Facilitator Team (TFM) members. The
         Master Trainers had trained 11,980 ECED educators and staffs, while the TFM
         members had assisted the community and ECED centers in providing quality ECED
         service that is holistic, integrated and sustainable.
       • Trainings for educators and CDW were held by program managers at provincial level
         or the PPICU (Province Project Implementing and Coordinating Unit) in 21 provinces,
         funded with de-concentration fund. A total 11,980 people have been trained as
         educators and CDW through this ECED training program
       • Establishment of TPK and launching of block grant fund. This component is intended
         to ensure the availability of ECED service that can improve access and quality of
         service for children from poor families. The ECED program has disbursed Rp
         90,000,000 (ninety million Indonesian rupiah) block grant to every established ECED
         centers (TPK) that is given in three stages of disbursement in three years period. Until
         the end of the program, 5,990 activities management teams (Tim Pengelola
         Kegiatan/TPK) have been established with a total block grant disbursement of Rp
         539,100,000,000 (five hundred thirty-nine billion and one hundred million Indonesian
         rupiah) in 51 districts. The following graph shows the condition of the TPK under the
         ECED Program:




                                                66
164. Several mobile ECED centers (PAUD Kunjungan) have been established under this
ECED program. The following graph shows the development of mobile ECED centers:




                                       67
165. The following information of the performance of the TPK of ECED Program is based on
national monitoring and evaluation efforts:




Based on collected data, total number of early-age children served by TPK under the ECED
Program is 673,162 early-age children, or has reached 91.21 percent of the set target of 738,000
children. However, using average growth rate of new early-age children in previous years, the
target could be met by the end of 2013. The following graph shows the increased number of
early-age children served every year, cumulatively.




166. The implemented ECED Program has opened up opportunity for the delivery of holistic
and integrated Early Childhood Development service that covers integration of health, nutrition,
caring and education services, for the protection and welfare of children that is necessary in order
to have healthy, intelligent, happy, and of noble-character Indonesian children, as is the motto of
ECED. Based on identification result, the following graph shows how the TPK collaborated with
other sectors in implementing holistic-integrative policy.



                                                68
167. Development of a sustainable system for quality ECED. The achievements of this
component are:
      • Development of ECED Standards with the enactment of Ministerial Regulation no. 58
         year 2009 on the Standards for Early Childhood Education.
      • Formulation of technical instruction to implement the ECED Standards.
      • Formulation of Development Pattern for Management of ECED Courses and
         Trainings.
      • Formulation of curriculum for Bachelor, Master and Doctoral Degrees on Early
         Childhood Education.
      • Formulation of Minimum Service Standard for Early Childhood Education.
      • Implementation of Media Campaign
      • Supervisor Orientation
      • Workshops on Teaching Materials Development
      • Workshops on ECED Program Management Coordination
      • Mid-term review
      • Provincial Coordination Workshops at provincial level
      • Workshops on ECED program sustainability at district level.
      • Some social assistance was given to maintain ECED quality: ECED internship,
         ECED unit, BOP, Parenting, and social assistance from ECED partner organizations.
      • Workshop on Teaching Materials Development
      • Workshop on Capacity Building for ECED Trainers
      • Workshop on NSPK training providers
      • Workshop on Capacity Building for ECED Supervisors
      • Workshop on Capacity Building for Recipients of Matching Grant and Additional
         Block Grant
      • Training on ECED CSR

168. To improve the quality of ECED staffs, several short courses have been carried out since
2009 to 2013. The short courses include:

       •   Short Course of Reggio Emilia.


                                             69
       •   Short Course Exploring Reggio Emilia Approach Method in Singapore, attended by
           the Directorate of ECE, ECED Management, NEST Team, REST, Himpaudi, P2PNFI
           and BP-PNFI.
       •   Short Course In-depth Study of Reggio Emilia in Italy.
       •   In Country Training, attended by the NEST team of ECED Program and supervisors.
       •   Parenting Short Course, Project Management Short Course, APE Short Course.
       •   In country Training for district staffs, to intern at Model ECED center.
       •   Short Course ECED to China, participated by mothers from award-winning districts,
           educators, TPK, and TFM, ECED Partners, and top management of the directorate.
       •   Short Course on improving understanding on Early Childhood Education in Alfalah.
       •   Asia-Pacific ECED International Conference
       •   National ECED Conference
       •   Trainings for Assistant Educators

169. Efforts to develop ECED quality assurance system at the district level, in accordance with
component 2 of the ECED Program, has encouraged district governments to develop Model
ECED (PAUD Percontohan) through the provision of Rp 200,000,000 (two hundred million
Indonesian rupiah) Matching Grant from their local government budget allocation. As a result,
29 Model ECED centers have been established in 29 districts, within two fiscal years, four
centers in 2011 and 25 centers in 2012.

170. Provincial and District ECED Programs have gained some achievements that are in line
with the commitment agreed by the central government, in this case the Directorate of Early
Childhood Education and Development, and provincial and district governments.

   Achievements of MoU at provincial level



             Mempertahankan Pengelola                    42.86%

                      Laporan Kegiatan                                          95.00%

           Membentuk Komite Koordinasi                                         90.48%

                          Forum PAUD                                           100.00%

                            HIMPAUDI                                           100.00%

             Mendukung Kesinambungan                                      80.95%

                       Kontribusi APBD                                          95.24%

                Menetapkan Seksi PAUD                                          90.00%

                 PAUD Masuk Renstrada                                          90.48%




                                              70
Achievements of MoU at district level




Increased allocation of fund in local government budget for ECED




                                        71
171. In 2006 until 2013, ECED Program has been implemented well by the Central (CPICU),
Provincial (PPICU), District (DPIU) and community (village) levels, in accordance with the
Program components. Therefore, based on the achievements of the program, the managing
organizations of the ECED Program has been successful in performing their tasks in accordance
with Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Loan Agreement as well as Finance Agreement.
The following graph shows the comparison of those achievements:




Issues Considered To Be Not Effective

   •   Appropriate implementation of PDO measurements in this ECED Program has been
       stipulated in the PAD. It is implemented by measuring the development rate of children
       age 0-3 years using DDTK and EDI. This process of PDO reporting, as described in the
       PAD, is difficult to be conducted regularly in short period of time (quarterly). This
       process requires specific study that involved cross-sector policies (especially health
       sector), facilities and infrastructures, as well as experts with comprehensive
       understanding on child development. Therefore, it requires an extended period of time
       and fully capable resources at the central and field levels. Actually, educators and CDW
       have been trained to use DDTK, and they have carried out the process at institutional
       level. However, it is limited only to activities such as weighing, head circumference
       measuring, and distribution of supplemental food. It has not gone into the analytical part
       of the process.


                                              72
   •   Master Trainers did not assist the educators at TPK regularly.

If the ECED program would be re-designed, the following changes have to happen:

   •   In the current implementation of ECED Program, there have been many discrepancies
       between program plan and financial plan. It requires serious attention. Program and
       financial need assessments have to be conducted and the results incorporated in the
       documented plan.
   •   ECED Program had two main indicators, namely the KPI and PDO. To this date, the KPI
       was measured using monitoring and evaluation instrument, while the PDO focused more
       on DDTK measurement, and it was not effective. Therefore, in Program Indicators
       identification, specific attention has to be given to indicator measurements (instruments),
       Duration of measurements, as well as outputs. Those issues have to be determined and
       regulated in advanced, to produce measurable targets and achievements of the Program.
   •   There should flexibility in fund utilization in accordance with field condition. It has been
       stipulated as one of the clause in the PAD, and use of funds has to be based on planning
       and field study.
   •   Use and reporting of RK funds have to be reported to the Bank in Indonesian rupiah, to
       avoid foreign exchange loss.
   •   Portion of fund sharing with the Local Government Budget (APBD) should be
       determined and agreed by central and local governments, and reflected in a Memorandum
       of Understanding.
   •   Appointment of program managers, both at central and local levels, should be based on
       the Director General’s Decree to prevent any replacement of the program managers.
   •   Lender and central government should perform regular monitoring on MoU compliance.
       Moreover, there should be reward and punishment system being applied to local
       institutions that failed to meet stipulations of the MoU or any agreed requirements.

Implementation Stage
   • At the preliminary phase of the program, supervisor must assist TFM. Supervisor should
      be provided with honorarium or transportation allowance that can be funded by program
      fund allocation under the monitoring and evaluation component, to ensure that they can
      carry out effective quality assurance measures at field level.
   • MOT should be recruited from non-civil servants background and be given incentives
      from the program fund allocation, to ensure the same level of professionalism in
      performance as with the TFM. This issue became a recommendation because experience
      shows that civil-servants-recruited MOT were unable to perform effectively, especially in
      assisting/mentoring the educators at TPK.
   • Indicators of targeted early-age children to be served at ECED centers should be clarified,
      whether it started from age 0 or 2 years. It will clarify the number of early-age children
      who had been served at center level.

Recommendations for the World Bank:
   • To provide trainings on financial management, procurement of goods and services, as
     well as other capacity building trainings for the central and regional management teams.



                                               73
•   To have more flexible utilization of the Royal Netherlands block grant that can cover not
    only consultants’ fee but also other needs.




                                            74
Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
By the time of the submission of the ICR, the comments from the co-financier, the Dutch
Government, was not available. Once received it will be documented in the project file




                                              75
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document, Indonesia, Early Childhood Education and Development Project,
Report No. 35326-ID, dated May 31, 2006.

Implementation Status and Results Reports

Mission Aide Memoires

World Bank, Early Childhood Education and Development in Poor Villages of Indonesia Strong
Foundations, Later Success, Amer Hasan, Marilou Hyson, and Mae Chu Chang, Editors

Various informal presentations and informal notes on the Project’s Impact Evaluation and other
aspects such as monitoring

Indonesia Country Partnership Strategy FY13-15, Report No. 72906-ID, dated December 13,
2012




                                              76
77
