Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24936
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-20967; IDA-26600)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 38.7 MILLION
(USD 56 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
ZAMBIA
FOR THE
HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
December 30, 2002
Human Development 1
Country Department 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 2, 2002)
Currency Unit = Kwacha
4590 ZMK = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = ZMK 4590
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AZT          Azidothyrnidine
CBoH         Central Board of Health
CMAZ         Christian Medical Association of Zambia
CP           Cooperating Partners
DANIDA       Danish International Development Agency
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
DflD         Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
DHMT         District Health Management Team
DHS          Demographic Health Survey
FAMS         Financial Management & Administration System
HIV/AIDS     Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Autoimmune Deficiency Syndrome
HMIS         Health Management Information System
HRIT         Health Reform Implementation Team
HSSP         Health Sector Support Project
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
MDC          Minister for Development Cooperation (Netherlands)
MMD          Movement for Multiparty Democracy
MoH          Ministry of Health
MSL          Medical Stores Limited
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
NHSP         National Health Strategic Plan
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
RHC          Rural Health Centre
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SIDA         Swedish International Development Authority
SIM           Sector Investment & Maintenance Credit
SOE          Statements of Expenditure
SWAp         Sector-wide Approach program
TB           Tuberculosis
UNAIDS       Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
WHO          World Health Organization
ZDHS          Zambia Demographic Health Survey
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager/Director:  Dzingai Mutumbuka
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Albertus Voetberg



ZAMBIA
HEALTH SECTOR
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              15
6. Sustainability                                                                  18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  20
8. Lessons Learned                                                                22
9. Partner Comments                                                               24
10. Additional Information                                                        27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              36
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                37
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                              38
Annex 10. Borrower's Comments and Implementation Report                           43
Map IBRD# 26792R






Project ID: P003239                                      Project Name: HEALTH SECTOR
Team Leader: Albertus Voetberg                           TL Unit: AFTHI
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR          Report Date: December 30, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: HEALTH SECTOR                                 L/C/TF Number: TF-20967; IDA-26600
Country/Department: ZAMBIA                                             Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: Health (97%); Central government administration
(3%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   05/03/1993                            Effective: 02/24/1995        02/24/1995
Appraisal:  04/01/1994                               MTR: 04/28/1998           04/28/1998
Approval:  11/15/1994                             Closing: 12/31/2000         06/30/2002
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: Government of Zambia/Ministry of Health
Other Partners: Netherlands MDC, SIDA, DANIDA, ODA/DFID, WHO and UNICEF
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                          Edward Jaycox
Country Manager:     Yaw Ansu                                 Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager:      Dzingai Mutumbuka                        Roger Grawe
Team Leader at ICR:  Albertus Voetberg                        Steen Lau Jorgensen
ICR Primary Author:  Thomas W. Merrick;
Muhammad Ali Pate
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
2.1. Outcome (U). There is no evidence to suggest that the project had any measurable impact
on the health status of the Zambian population. It is also difficult to ascribe to it significant
improvements in the functioning of the health system, which was its main objective. The project
did help to sustain district-level health care through purchases of equipment, drugs and medicines.
However, it did not adequately address capacity weaknesses in the health sector, and its
investments in civil works were not considered to be cost effective. The external monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) component was inadequate to the extent that information on the project's



impact was not available at the time of completion. Credit must be given to the project team for
its substantial contributions to the policy dialogue on (i) decentralization, (ii) financing reforms
and (iii) proposed separation of financing from the provision of services under the Government of
Zambia's (GRZ) health reform program. By contrast, the actual contribution from project
investments toward these achievements is debatable.
2.2. Sustainability (L). Over the short run (3-5 years), there is sufficient momentum in the
decentralization process and adequate financial support from donors to warrant a guardedly
positive view on the sustainability of the reform process, particularly given the new Government
team's stated commitment to it. Increased donor funding has helped to stabilize per capita health
expenditures. However, recent declines in real Government expenditures on the health sector
raise doubts about longer-term sustainability, unless financing from domestic sources can be
stimulated. Beyond the envisioned sustainability of funding, the policies and practices which
evolved as a result of the Government's reform program are likely to be sustained. The separation
of finance and provision backed by the legislation creating a Central Board of Health (CBoH), the
decentralized structures, and the introduction of district planning and management are considered
likely to be sustained in the short to medium term.
2.3. Institutional Development (M). The project had a modest direct impact on institutional
development. Thc bulk of project resources was expended on civil works, drugs, supplies and
equipment. Insufficient efforts were made by the project to strengthen capacity within the health
sector. Financial management, procurement planning and logistics management, monitoring and
evaluation, and human resource capacity are still considered to fall far short of what is required
for an effectively functioning decentralized health system. Despite these shortcomings, it is
acknowledged that the overall health reform program did achieve modest institutional
development impact through the decentralization policy, district planning and management,
introduction of user fees, and the separation of purchasing from provision in the health sector.
2.4. Bank Performance (U). During preparation, the Bank contributed with policy analysis and
technical support to the design of the health reform program. There was an effective working
relationship among the Bank, other cooperating partners (CPs) and GRZ during its early years.
When this relationship broke down in 1998, the project should have been suspended because
Government had failed to remedy procurement issues and adhere to key covenanted agreements.
Rather, the project was extended for eighteen months, after which it still failed to achieve its
development objectives. The project was under suspension of disbursement for the last three
months prior to the closing date, and it remained a problem project for 30 months prior to closing.
2.5. Borrower Performance (U). The borrower's performance during project preparation and
first years of implementation was very encouraging, with a high level of commitment and
demonstrated ownership of the health reform process. However, toward the latter part of project
implementation, weakened commitment to implementing policy changes, delayed resolution of
procurement issues, ineligible expenditures and an overall climate of poor govemance undermined
further progress. Under the circumstances, implementation progress was halted, further
contributing to the project's failure to achieve its development objectives. On balance, the
borrower's performance is considered Unsatisfactory.
-2 -



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objective, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR, report #13480-ZA), was to
support the Government's health reform program, with a view to improving the access to and
quality of a national package of essential health services in a decentralized health care delivery
system. The objective was clear and relevant to the vision of the health reforms. .Improvements
were targeted at specific health outcomes; (i) the nutritional status, (ii) lower fertility rates, (iii)
reduced transmission of HIV, (iv) contribution of social sustainability to the adjustment program,
and (v) strengthening of the human resource base necessary for the future growth of Zambia. The
credit from the International Development Association (IDA), classified as a Sector Investment
and Maintenance credit (SIM) operation, was intended to support the Government's health reform
program, as defined in the National Health Strategic Plan (NHSP). The project was designed as a
sector-wide support program (SWAp), one of the first of its kind in the social sectors in Africa.
Text Box I
Context
HSSP was designed to support Zambia's innovative and far-reaching health reform
initiative. Health reform was one of the planks for the Movement for Multiparty
Democracy (MMD), which came to power in 1991 in the first democratic elections
held in Zambia since independence. The architects of the new reform were key
players in crafting MMD's new vision for Zambia, which in the case of health was
"to provide Zambians with access to equity of cost-effective, quality health care as close to
the family as possible". To achieve this vision, the Zambia health reform sought a
better balance in the allocation of health resources between urban-based hospitals
and districts, where the majority of the poor resided.
Reform efforts included (i) building capacity at the district level for the management
of health care delivery and (ii) redefining the role of the Ministry of Health so that it
would cease to provide health care and begin to purchase health care services from
the health boards at the district and national levels. In the process, characterized by
health reformers as a "purchaser-provider split", public sector health staff were to be
separated from civil service and contracted by health boards (ref box on De-linkage).
The World Bank provided policy and technical support to the Zambian reformers
and sought to provide financial support to the reform effort through one of the
Africa Region's first sector-wide approaches (SWAps).
The idea of a SWAp is to support a policy agenda through flexible funding rather
than earmark funds for specific project components. Under a SWAp, annual
operational and financial plans are agreed by partners (in this instance, the
Government of Zambia (GRZ), the World Bank, bilateral donors and other
international organizations) on the basis of annual reviews of progress toward
reform goals. One of the challenges that the designers of HSSP faced was that the
lending instruments at that time required the use of the same disbursement
mechanisms that were designed for project lending. As is noted in the text of this
ICR, some of the problems that arose when the consultative process broke down,
can be attributed to this aspect of HSSPs design.
-3 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
The project was not formally revised, though restructuring was discussed after a mid-project shift
in the Government's attitude toward reform and its rejection of CP involvement in that process
led to a collapse in the sector-wide collaborative arrangements. The breakdown was compounded
by ineligible and flawed procurements and by deterioration in govemance and accountability. It is
helpful to consider the experience of IDA involvement in the reform process in several phases:
(a)  1991-1994, when there was significant IDA involvement in policy dialogue that shaped a
reform agenda that included creation of a decentralized health care financing and
management system and new resource allocation and financing schemes;
(b)  1995-1997, when IDA played an active role in advancing the reform effort and taking the
first steps toward sector-wide management, which included annual program reviews and
planning exercises;
(c)  1998-2000, starting with the above-mentioned breakdown in collaboration, which crippled
implementation progress to the point that achievements fell far short of what was originally
envisioned; and
(d) 2000-2002, the 18-month extension period, during which some additional disbursements
were made, but without any real progress toward achievement of the project's objectives.
The design (identifying specific investment items during the course of implementation) proved to
be a liability when collaboration with GRZ broke down in 1998. Attempts at that time to retrofit
a tighter investment framework were rejected by the Govermment, which asserted that it did not
want IDA's guidance and went its own way in reversing a number of the reform initiatives that
had been initiated in the earlier phase. Given the possibility of changing sector leadership (there
have been seven ministers for health over the life of the project), it would have been advisable to
have an explicit fall-back framework to be activated in the event that agreement on annual
investment plans could not be reached. Without such a framework, IDA had very little leverage,
with the exception of exerting a suspension or cancellation of the project, when conflicting views
and interpretations of implementation decisions arose.
3.3 Original Components:
The IDA credit had three major components, with notional allocations that were to be adjusted
during the course of implementation. The bulk (96%) of the initial allocation was earmarked for
an investment program and recurrent budget support of district-level service delivery, in line with
the decentralization agenda. The remainder was allocated to policy development at the national
level (3%) and to external monitoring and evaluation (1%). It was envisioned that IDA would be
"donor of last resort" in that allocations to support the reform process would be adjusted to
support those elements of the reform program for which other CP funding was not available.
Allocations for investment and recurrent budgets were to be based on the annual planning process
though which Government and CPs would assess proposals and funding gaps identified by District
Health Management Tearns (DHMTs).
The capital investment component was geared to rehabilitation of health service facilities,
including upgrading and equipping of urban and rural health centers, as well as staff housing in
rural locations where no rental market existed. Incremental recurrent budget support was to
-4 -



cover recurrent cost increases associated with the "retooling" process, including temporary
increases in costs as staff members were being reoriented to responsibilities and intensification of
community outreach. Amounts were to be agreed during annual program reviews. The policy
development component was to support operational research on new approaches, including
development of community health approaches, cost sharing and redefinition of the skill mix
required to deliver the package of basic services. The monitoring and evaluation component was
to fimd beneficiary assessments and compilation of specific program indicators to guide the annual
review process. Funding for periodic independent technical, financial and procurement audits was
also included in this component.
3.4 Revised Components:
There was no formal revision to component definitions. However, allocations to disbursement
categories were revised substantially, with increased allocations for some categories, and
decreased allocation for others.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Health Sector Support Project (HSSP) was a pioneer among sector-wide investment projects
in health in Africa. There were few guidelines on which to base project design decisions, and Bank
existing procedural requirements were not totally suited to effective implementation of a sector
program. While there was an agreement among Bank and Government team members that the
project would have the flexibility of a sector program, the product agreement adopted the more
rigid structure of an investment project, with most of the disbursement categories agreed in
advance and an understanding that they would be adjusted during annual reviews. The success of
this arrangement depended on continuity of leadership. Global experience suggests that turnover
in public-sector leadership is frequent and that high levels of commitment to reform and good
governance cannot be assumed when others take over. The implementation experience of this
project bears that out.
While it is difficult to second-guess the design process, especially one that had little prior
experience with sector-wide programs on which to base itself, hindsight suggests some
modifications in approach that are now more common in the design of SWAps:
(a) Limiting initial allocations to amounts required for carrying out activities in the work
program for the first year or two of the project and assigning the remainder of project
funding to the "unallocated" category. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) for
HSSP allocated nearly 90 % of project funds, most of it to civil construction. If a larger
proportion had be left unallocated, IDA would have had the option of not approving
re-allocations from the unallocated category when collaborative relations broke down rather
than having to choose between suspension/cancellation (a step which IDA has of being
hesitant about in the case of health) or dispute with Government whether to change
previously agreed categories.
(b)  Having agreed policy and logical frameworks that set priorities and spell out assumptions
about the links between inputs, outputs and impact, including specific indicator for whether
activities are actually being carried out and contributing to project goals as well as being
explicit about assumptions regarding factors beyond the control of the program.
- 5-



(c) Using the annual review process to make further allocations from the unallocated category
based on measured progress and/or changes needed to bring it about, rather than
reallocating from amounts already assigned at project launch to existing categories.
(d) Establishing an agreed process for resolving differences.
This approach might have given IDA more leverage when Government decided to break off
collaboration in that there would have been an incentive for Government to continue engagement
through a condition that reallocation from the "unallocated" category had to be mutually agreed
and based on the annual review process.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
HSSP's objective was to support the Government's health reform program and improve access to
and quality of a national package of essential health services in a decentralized health care delivery
system. The SAR provided baseline data on key health indicators (fertility, mortality and
nutritional status) but did not set specific goals for improvement in those measures. The team
working on the implementation completion report (ICR) was not able to locate specific output
and outcome indicators for the project. Nonetheless, the reform process in Zambia is well
documented (Annex 7). A review of available materials reveals the following:
4.1.1. Decentralization and related organizational reforms. Decentralization was the earliest
reform to be initiated, the one that has progressed most, and one that is the most likely to be
sustained. Its aim was to enable districts to deliver a basic package of health services. The
creation of the District Health Management Teams (DHMTs) further enhanced district planning
and management in a significant way. The DHMTs have been established and institutionalized in
all 72 districts. Streamlined funding through the "district baskets" (ref text box 2) has ensured a
predictable flow of funds. The DHMT whom the ICR team visited was clearly on top of the
planning and reporting process.
-6-



Text Box 2
District Basket Funding
Zambia's "district basket" evolved during the early stages of HSSP
implementation as a mechanism for donors and GRZ to:
(i) channel funds directly to the districts
(ii) support decentralized management of health services
(iii) rectify more traditional, but inequitable, approaches, whereby certain
donors directly financed specific districts, and
(iv) avoid burdening districts with the need to manage and report on
multiple sources of funds.
Donors continued to use the district basket management process as a
mechanism to ensuring that the districts would have resources even after the
SWAp consultative process broke down at the central level. The design of
HSSP envisioned it as a "last-resort" funding source to be employed for
centrally procured inputs (e.g., infrastructure, training) that would
complement direct support to districts provided by GRZ and other partners.
When the national level consultative process broke down, some bilateral
donors continued their support to Zambia's health sector through the district
basket mechanism. Toward the end of the originally scheduled term of HSSP
(1999), these donors forged a memorandum of understanding with the
Government that formalized the district basket process. This was done at a
low point in the Bank's relationship with the reform process under HSSP, and
therefore, the Bank was not actively engaged in the dialogue, which included
regular meetings of local representatives of donors and district and national
level health officials. At the time of the ICR review, the district basket
management process appeared to be functioning well, and discussions were
underway to create other pooled funding channels for the sector. Several
informants recommended that future Bank engagement in Zambia's health
sector should consider working through the pooled funding arrangement.
Community participation and oversight are important facets of the decentralization effort. District
health boards were established (then abolished) as well as community oversight committees. The
effectiveness of this mechanism is reported to be variable and appears to be working more
effectively in districts where non-governmental organizations (NGOs) are supporting them.
Progress in shifting from an ear-marked approach to a common, sector-wide form of sector
financing was on-and-off during most of the life of the project. The intention was to move
operational management of the health care delivery system from the Ministry of Health (MoH) to
the Central Board of Health (CBoH), with MoH retaining policy and oversight functions while the
CBoH would be responsible for implementation and working with the districts. In the process,
staff were to be "de-linked" from public service and contracted by the CBoH and districts. This
process was initiated during the 1995-1997 period, with most changes starting to take place in
1997 when the de-linked began to be contracted by the CBoH. That was the time when changes
started to impact on a broader range of stakeholders. Protests and political opposition to
- 7 -



de-linking subsequently became a factor contributing to the reversals that occurred during
1998-99.
Text Box 3
De-linkage
De-linkage is the term that Zambian reformers used to characterize the
separation of public sector health staff from the civil service, in order that they
may be hired on a contractual basis by district and national level health boards.
De-linkage was the leading edge of a broader civil service reform effort aimed at
improving the performance of workers through a better incentive and
accountability system. During the design phase of HSSP, the Bank supported
the civil service reform through its Economic and Social Adjustment Credit
(ESAC) with funding for separation packages and restructuring of remuneration
so that pay was linked to performance. ESAC also supported efforts to
decentralize social service delivery and reallocate public spending to social
services.
Implementation of the de-linkage program in the health sector proved to be very
difficult. Opposition to de-linkage by unions and other stakeholders was one of
the factors in the erosion of political support for health reforms that occurred
during the later phases of HSSP implementation. Policy analysts who have
studied this aspect of the reform attribute much of what happened to the fact
that de-linkage started with urban health professionals in the hospital sector,
whose interests were clearly threatened, and for whom reformers paid
insufficient attention to the creation of buy-in and ownership of the reform.
These people became powerful opponents of the reform when a combination of
other factors, including worsening macroeconomic conditions, created
increasing financial obstacles and eroded the quality of highly visible urban
health services.
Discussions during the consultative phase of the Intensive Learning ICR process
suggested that de-linkage is still desirable, particularly as a mechanism to attract
and retain qualified health professionals through performance-based pay, one
that is not constrained by civil service remuneration.
While decentralization gained enough momentum to continue through the reversal period, other
aspects (annual reviews, for example) of the move to a sector-wide system were derailed during
that period and have only recently started to get back on track. In late 1999, a memorandum of
understanding was agreed by Government and bilateral CPs. This helped to put the sector-wide
program approach back on track. IDA had effectively withdrawn itself from the process, and has
not been an active partner since then.
4.1.2. Reforms in resource allocation andfinancing. The second part the reform process focused
on changing the way sector funding was allocated and on new financing mechanisms. A recent
assessment of these reforms by Abt Associates [under the Partnerships for Health Reform Project
funded by The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID)] reports that the reallocation
- 8-



reform, which sought to shift resources from hospitals to the districts, was more successful than
the financing reforms (cost sharing through user fees and prepayment schemes).
In 1994, a new allocation approach introduced a population/disease burden-based scheme for
health budgeting. Other criteria (poverty, gender, presence of refugees, etc.) are now being
added. The Abt study found greater geographical equity resulting from the new scheme (though it
was reported to be less successful in targeting on the poorest groups within districts). It also
reduced resources for hospital sub-sector, which had absorbed the lion's share of resources in the
pre-reform era. Political reaction to budget cuts in the highly visible hospital sector contributed to
the erosion of Government support for the reforms in 1998.
4.1.3 Variability in cost recovery across districts. While user fees have not yet succeeded in
raising large amounts of revenue for the sector, they have had other effects on access, equity and
quality of services as discussed below. The effort to introduce effective and equitable
cost-sharing has a long way to go, but the reform has put the whole question of fees on the table
with a commitment to find ways to make cost sharing work.
4.1.4. Improved mobilization and effective use of resources for health. The SAR noted that
when the reform was initiated, Zambia was spending relatively more on health than many of its
neighbors (which continues to be the case, as is reflected by the National Health Account data),
and that one of the challenges was to get better value for its money. This was one of the reasons
for the effort to shift public spending from hospital-based curative care toward primary and
preventive care in the districts. To the extent that this has occurred, Zambia probably is getting
more value for its public-sector expenditures than before.
4.1.5. Health status. The health status of the Zambia population was poor in 1991 and remains
so today. While there have been improvements in some areas, the overall picture is one of
continued deterioration. Life expectancy at birth, which was just below 50 years in 1990, has
fallen below 40, mainly as a result of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Infant mortality has increased
from 107 to 114 deaths per thousand live births, and the matemal mortality ratio (estimated at
649 deaths per 100,000 live births in the 1996 Demographic Health Survey (DHS) is one of the
highest in the world. More recent estimates will become available when the results of the 2001
DHS are published later this year.
Adult prevalence of HIV/AIDS increased during the 1980s to a level of about 20% in the early
1990s, but has held steady since then. UNAIDS estimates that 870,000 Zambians were living with
HIV/AIDS at the end of 1999, with women outnumbering men. The estimated number of deaths
due to AIDS in 1999 was 99,000, and has been rising, as those who were infected with HIV at
the time, have since developed AIDS. The cumulative number of AIDS orphans was estimated at
650,000. A promising development is the change in behaviors that has been reported in a series of
Sexual Behavior Surveys, which show reductions in the proportion of 15-19 year olds who have
initiated sexual activity.
The incidence of tuberculosis (TB) in Zambia has worsened over the decade, partly as a result of
the HIV/AIDS epidemic, but also because of disruptions caused by the transition from an
ear-marked funding system to an integrated, sector-wide approach to financing. TB incidence has
risen from 1 per 1,000 in 1986 to 5 per 1,000 in 1999. Two-thirds of TB cases are related to
-9-



AIDS. The provincial and district level TB programs which were working well before the
reforms, fell apart during the transition, as some donors withdrew support for TB drugs.
One of our informants described the nutrition situation in Zambia in terms of "raging
malnutrition". The 1996 DHS reported an overall 42% of stunting, with other sources indicating
levels as high as 57%. Anemia in pregnancy is widespread, and poverty, poor economic
performance and drought have created a food crisis in the country. A rapid nutrition assessment
now underway is expected to provide additional information.
Fertility/contraceptive use and immunization coverage appear to have been less affected by the
transition process than other public health priorities. Vaccination rates increased, fertility declined,
and contraceptive use rose through 1996. Results from the 2001 DHS are expected to reveal a
continuation of these trends. One of the reasons that these outcomes were better was that CPs
ensured that the focal points, drugs and supplies for these activities, were protected. Social
marketing of contraceptives has also helped.
Continued deterioration of health conditions during the mid-1990s was a key factor in the
Govermnent's 1998 back peddling on the reform agenda. The new minister stated that there was
too much emphasis on process and not enough on achieving visible results on the ground. Drug
shortages were common, especially in the urban health centers.
4.1.6. Equity and access to services. Tabulations of the 1996 DHS reveal large differences in key
health indicators between households in upper and lower wealth quintiles. The situation is
exacerbated by geography. Zambia is more urbanized than most African countries, and poor rural
population groups are isolated by distance and lack of transport.
Access is a factor contributing to the persistence of high maternal mortality in Zambia. Deliveries
by a medically trained person were close to 100% for the top three urban income quintiles, but
less than 20% for the lowest rural quintile. The two IDA-financed rural health centers visited by
the ICR team reported no maternal deaths between 2000-2001 (they had referred the few delivery
complication cases that occurred to Lusaka), but acknowledged that they were assisting only one
out of five expected deliveries in their coverage areas, and that they had no information about
outcomes for the other four-fifths of deliveries.
Nutrition indicators also vary significantly between the richer urban quintiles and poorer urban
ones. The DHS reports 53% stunting for the latter, versus 26% for the former.
Lesser rich-poor and rural-urban differences in immunization coverage (92% for the richest urban
quintile versus 81% for the poorest rural one) indicate that outreach programs that do not require
substantial health and transport infrastructure can compensate for these differences.
Evidence summarized in the Abt report mentioned earlier indicates that user fees contributed to
reduced utilization of services. The Bank did not promote user fees, rather it pushed for better
exemptions. Exemption schemes based on age, public-health need and prevention help attenuate
the impact of fees for some. According to that study, exemption policy was "more effective in
promoting demographic equity than in necessarily reflecting payment according to ability to pay."
While the reform process did not explicitly seek to increase private (NGO and for-profit)
involvement in health care, private providers have helped to expand access to care and the
Christian Medical Association of Zambia ( CMAZ) was engaged very early on in the process. It is
-10-



estimated that private provision accounts for about half of contraceptives, and NGOs are eligible
for funding under the district basket. CMAZ estimates that church health institutions provide
about 30% of overall health services and 40% of rural care. Private for-profit provision of
curative care has also expanded. Zambia's national health accounts indicate that households
accounted for over a third (35 % in 1998) of overall health expenditures in the country.
4.1.7. Quality: Specific indicators of the quality of care are not available. One measure that
correlates very strongly with consumer satisfaction (and with provider morale) is the availability
of medicines. Performance for that indicator has been variable over the period of the project, with
shortages being fairly common during the early years of the project but improving recently. It was
also reported that health centers in rural areas had drugs more often than urban hospitals,
particularly once the district basket became functional.
The Abt review of financing reforms noted that cost sharing has become an accepted practice, one
of whose effects has been a greater concem for the quality of care among the population. Several
studies are cited which suggest that people have become more aware of quality issues and more
vocal about poor quality. A 1996 review sponsored by WHO/UNICEF/IDA also suggested that
providers appear to have become more accountable to client needs when the fee incentive is
present.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Policy Development Support Component. This component was designed to promote policy
development through operational research and development. According to the staff appraisal
report, activities were to be funded if they tested new approaches, were innovative and had a
limited time frame or utility for learning from experience.
4.2.1 (a). Policy Dialogue. Project documents and interviews with participants in the health
reform process (Government and CPs) indicate that the HSSP project did make significant
contributions to the overall national health policy during the early years of the reforms. From
1992, when project preparation began, to early 1998, the working relationship between the
Bank's team, the GRZ and the CPs appears to have been quite conducive to productive dialogue
on health policy issues. The reform program succeeded in formulating as well as implementing
policies for decentralization of the health sector, health financing and limited user fees and, later,
for a mechanism whereby the CPs would pool resources for financing health activities at the
district level.
Other areas where the reform program made a significant difference was in the legislation and
initial implementation of the separation of financing and provision. The separation between the
public sector stewardship/financing roles of the MoH from the provider role of CBoH was an
important step that could have improved efficiency in the delivery of health services. However,
changes in the political environment made it impossible for this separation to be completed. The
new (2002) leadership at MoH has pledged to restart this process.
There are still unresolved policy issues, including:
(i)  Human resource policy development was initiated early during the reforms, but has not been
implemented. As such, after ten years of the health reform process, and at the conclusion of
the HSSP project, human resource policy issues have yet to be comprehensively addressed.
- 1 1 -



The loss of qualified health staff from the MoH/CBoH has not been adequately addressed.
It also does not appear that any concerted effort has been made to either address the
occupational risk of HIV infection for health workers or their behavioral risk. Partly as a
result of this failure, the HIV/AIDS epidemic is currently exacting a high toll on the health
workforce.
(ii) National drug policy has been uneven. For example, the ICR team was informed that
chloroquine resistance has emerged and is contributing to prolonged morbidity and
preventable mortality in Zambia. After much delay, chloroquine is now being replaced by
artemesin-based combinations as first line treatrnent.
4.2.1 (b). Operational Research and Development. A high level review of the health reforms
were conducted early on during implementation (Mahler's Review 1996). However, in the
subsequent period, the ICR team was not able to document any operational research activity or
studies which were sponsored by the project. Other CPs supported health sector research on the
reforms. For example, the SIDA sponsored studies on quality of care in Zambia and DANIDA
produced an annual supervisory report in 1995 that included baseline indicator for the reforms.
The Bank's role as "donor of last resort' apparently applied in this instance.
4.2.2. Investment Program Component. This project component was designed to support
infrastructure and equipment provision to the districts and rural health centers; capacity building;
drugs and supplies; and incremental non-salary recurrent budget support.
4.2.2(a). Civil Works. The civil works financed under this component consisted of the
rehabilitation of 39 rural health centers. Of the 39 rural health centers rehabilitated, only 32 are
functional as at the time of the ICR mission. The seven rural health centers that are not fully
functional remain so as a result of the lack of solar power panels, which would have provided
heating system, lighting and water supply from sunken bore holes. The solar panel contracts were
separated from the civil works construction of a total 17 health centers, which subsequently were
not fitted when the Bank declined to give "no objection". The government paid for the missing
solar panels in ten centers, while the remaining seven went without the solar panels and have
neither power nor running water.
The ICR mission visited two of the rehabilitated rural health centers in Chongwe District. The
visit revealed extensive new structures in addition to the existing facilities that were being
"rehabilitated". The rural health centers (RHCs) included in-patient units, shelter for relatives,
houses for staff and other spaces, most of which are not currently being used. Both health centers
did not have a functioning laboratory or a qualified technician, despite having a room built for
laboratory use. The ICR team concluded that the structures that had been built as rural health
centers were not appropriately dimensioned and did not take into consideration the other health
sector inputs necessary for them to be fimctional.
In 1999, the MoH requested the Bank's "no objection" to build health posts for "polyvalent"
health workers at levels below the RHCs. The polyvalent health workers were to be trained in
multiple tasks which could be executed in the remote health post setting. The Bank did not
approve the construction of the health posts and the ICR team considers it to have been an
appropriate decision judging from the un-sustainability of such health posts relative to the existing
- 12-



health sector inputs.
4.2.2(b). Drugs & Supplies. An estimated expenditure of USD 3 million was made for the
provision of drugs, supplies and equipment to the districts. The drugs and supplies ranged from
antibiotics, anti-malarial, anti-tuberculosis drugs, disinfectants, surgical gloves and other
consumables. These were all centrally procured and delivered to the medical stores warehouse
for distribution. These supplies constituted the in-kind contribution of the HSSP to the district
basket.
The opaque process of contracting out the management of Medical Stores Limited (MSL)
beginning in mid-1998 subsequently became one of the major reasons for a complete breakdown
of relationship between the donors, including the Bank, and the Government. The company
awarded the contract was allegedly involved in questionable activities, and the contract itself was
considered highly biased in favor of the contractor. A drug quality assurance system was in place
within MSL, but has not been qualified by any international technical organization (e.g. WHO).
Districts are supplied monthly with drug kits according to their requisitions and respective
allocations approved by the CBoH. There were periods of drug shortages during 1999, as a result
of delays in tendering process, and also because of Government's reluctance to re-allocate project
funds for drug purchases when there was a serious shortfall in TB drugs. The MSL contract is to
be re-bid during 2003, and the tender process will be closely monitored by Development Partners
to ensure transparency this time around.
Drug supply has also been hampered by the lack of coordination among various units (district
level service delivery planning, procurement, logistics). An example is the waste of a consignment
of AZT, which lay waste for more than two years, by Glaxo SmithKline for the prevention of
mother-to-child HIV transmission. The drugs have now expired without any effort to make use
of them. Such an unfortunate situation could have been prevented if a coherent national drug
policy was in place to set mother-to-child prevention guidelines and develop the capacity
necessary for its implementation.
4.2.2(c). Vehicles. All the 21 vehicles which were procured by the HSSP have been deployed at
the center (CBoH/MoH) rather than in districts. The ICR team was informed by the DHMT
during its field visit that transportation problems abound. The districts needed ambulances to
facilitate transportation of referred patients, and sometimes have to rely on commercial transport.
4.2.2(d). Consultancy Services, Studies and Training. An estimated USD 3.8 million of the
credit was expended under this category. However, MoH was unable to provide information on
the details of the various activities supported due to inadequate record keeping. The ICR team
checked the Bank's list of disbursements, which did not reveal any specific disbursement for
training or studies. There were several "multiple category" disbursements to the MoH that might
have included the above-mentioned activities.
4.2.2(e). Non-salary incremental recurrent costs. From an estimated USD 0.2-0.5 million for
recurrent costs at appraisal, an actual expenditure of USD 5.2 million was incurred. Incremental
recurrent cost at the center, district health services and for health management information system
(HMIS) accounted for the expenditures under this category. Compared to the estimate at
appraisal, the actual amount expended is considered excessive, especially in light of the
- 13 -



govemance issues in the MoH.
4.2.2ff) External Monitoring and Evaluation Component. The MoH was unable to provide
accounting information to show the extent of support provided through the HSSP to the financial
management and administration system (FAMS) and the HMIS. Other donors (SIDA and
USAID) did support extemal studies to evaluate the reform process. As at project completion,
data was lacking on the indicators for monitoring the health reform and the project's
contributions.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
A number of CPs invested in capacity development as part of their involvement in the sector-wide
program. These have complemented IDA investments in infrastructure, equipment, medicines and
supplies. Nonetheless, several capacity challenges remain.
4.5.1. Financial management and accountability. Lack of timely and transparent accounting has
been an on-going problem, though technical support has been provided to CBoH to improve
financial management. Some of the problems arise from delays in the intended shift of
management responsibilities from MoH to CBoH. Since 1999, the HMIS and a Financial and
Administrative Management System (FAMS) have been gaining momentum. HMIS focused on
epidemiological data, with inputs being received through standardized forms from the districts
through the provincial level. HMIS inputs are consolidated into quarterly reports that provide
feedback to DHMTs for their quarterly action plans and annual planning and budgeting process.
FAMS is focused on financial management and costing for Lhe district action plans. FAMS
provides a basis for monthly disbursements to the districts that have provided quarterly financial
reports. For both HMIS and FAMS, various CPs contributed to finance capacity building and
other infrastructure for the systems.
CPs have also funded research that provides a rich array of data on health-sector finance for
Zambia (National Health Accounts, budget and expenditure data reported in the Joint Health
Appraisal Mission documents, etc.). Little of this information was used for planning and
monitoring of sector expenditures during the life the project, though there is evidence that FAMS
is beginning to produce such information as the project comes to an end. Project status reports
repeatedly noted the need for better financial management information, and the impression drawn
from them is that project monitoring was forced to rely on a patchwork of information assembled
on a catch-as-catch-can basis.
4.5.2. Procurement and logistics management. Procurement and logistics management proved
to be major bottlenecks over the life of this project. The need to strengthen procurement capacity
is now recognized, but was clearly underestimated at the time the project was launched. Efforts
were initially made to decentralize under MoH and strengthen procurement capacity within CBoH
with the hiring of competent procurement staff. However, such efforts proved to be short lived as
- 14 -



a permanent secretary in the Ministry re-centralized procurement back to the MoH.
Subsequently, the staff within the Ministry who were experienced in the Bank's procurement
procedures, were lost, and the procurement capacity was not rebuilt. At the same period when
the procurement capacity was eroded, other governance issues within the MoH began to emerge.
The project could have acted more strongly to ensure that the small procurement expertise then
available was preserved. As a result of the weak procurement capacity, several mis-procurements
and ineligible expenditures were made. An example is the gentamycin procurement error (100
times the volume and cost of the amount authorized in a no-objection by IDA). A subsequent
procurement audit attributed this error to lack of technical knowledge in the procurement unit.
Lack of movement on the delineation of procurement management responsibilities between MoH
and CBoH has been part of the problem (for example, construction of IDA-funded RHCs was
procured by MoH, while CBoH had responsibility for equipment). Storage and distribution of
medicines and supplies was also a major bottleneck until 1997, when management of the system
was contracted to a private firm. While performance has improved since then, the contracting
process lacked transparency and is fraught with questions about accountability and the level of
remuneration to the contractor. There are also concerns about leakages after drugs reach district
level. CPs have explored alternative distribution mechanisms, but concluded that the costs would
be too high and now plan to press for a more transparent process when the contract is opened for
renewal bids in 2003.
4.5.3. Monitoring and evaluation. One of the main features of a sector-wide approach is shifting
from managing inputs to managing for results and annual revisions of financial and operational
plans based on information on progress toward agreed goals. For this to work, base-line
indicators and monitoring of progress toward goals are essential. The lack of adequate monitoring
capacity was recognized during the project design stage, but little was done to improve it. With
the delay of the current DHS survey, the most recent nationally representative data for many
indicators of health status and utilization are for 1996. As noted, the HMIS has started reporting
epidemiological and utilization reports from the districts starting in 2000.
4.5.4. Human resource development. The de-linkage process, which was meant to improve the
effectiveness of human resource utilization in the health sector, started in 1997 but was derailed as
a result of the confusion and political backlash it created. Some progress has been made in
personnel planning for district-level activities, but many posts remain vacant. District Boards still
do yet not have full authority to appoint, transfer, promote and discipline staff. MoH has
developed a comprehensive 10-year HR plan with many recommendations, but HR management
capacity remains weak and the entire HR picture is clouded by the staff losses and time diversions
resulting from the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Health authorities felt that there would little progress in
improving the deployments of health staff without de-linkage.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Inadequate Bank presence in Zambia. During the early years of the health reforms and
implementation of the HSSP, the 'relationship at a distance' between the Bank and GRZ worked
well because of the close partnership built amongst the individuals on both sides. However, with
the change in MoH leadership and the emergence of major disagreements, the quality of the
- 15 -



relationship plummeted. From then on, the "relationship at a distance" did not work in favor of
smooth project implementation. CPs and the MoH reported to the ICR team that the Bank was
perceived to be distant and out of the loop. As a result, the Bank lost a valuable opportunity to
be an effective partner with others CPs and with Government in shaping and advancing the reform
process after 1998. The same discussions revealed a perception that the Bank was engaged too
deeply at the political level and not enough at the technical level. As such, when the political
aspects did not go well, the Bank did not have a backup entry point.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Leadership in MoH. Dynamic leadership within the MoH during the early years of the reforms
played a critical role in moving the health sector towards the paths of decentralization and the
subsequent sector wide approach. The important role played by MoH leadership was
acknowledged to the ICR mission team by both interviewees in the MoH and the cooperating
partners. Later on, multiple changes in MoH leadership and wavering government commitment
undermined this. Between 1998 and June 2002, there were six Ministers for Health. With the
economic difficulties of the mid-1 990s, episodes of drug shortages, and the job insecurities as a
result of the then on-going public sector staff rationalization, political pressures mounted, making
it easier for opponents of the reforms to pressure leadership to reverse certain components of the
reform process.
S.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1. Governance. Governance concerns played a major role in the problems that arose during
project implementation. CPs, including IDA, because increasingly alarmed about suspected
corruption, particularly when management of the medical stores was contracted out in a highly
opaque manner. In particular, high officials were suspected of condoning or being involved in
corruption. Additional issues that further raised questions on governance in MoH included the
finding of ineligible expenditure statements during a review of the project's statements of
expenditure (SOE), delayed reimbursements of the ineligible expenditures, and a general
clampdown on information flow from MoH to the cooperating partners.
With a new Government team has been in place since the beginning of this year, the ICR mission
has gathered that there is a lot of hope and optimism among both the MoH staff and CPs that
governance is improving.
5.3.2. Weak human resource capacity. Although Zambia was fortunate to have a core of well
trained, dedicated health managers and planners during the early years of the reforms, the health
system was unable to retain them or replace them with comparatively strong staff in the latter
years. Several factors have contributed to the decline in the human resource capacity.
5.3.2(a). HRIT members who formed the core of the reform movement were insulated from the
larger MoH staff, and once the champion of the reform movement was moved out of MoH, HRIT
was no longer able to remain intact. By 1999, most of the original HRIT team had left the
government system, and at the time of the ICR, none of its original members was in government
service, with only three members in the country.
5.3.2(b). As a result of the creation of CBoH and the subsequent de-linkage efforts, experienced
health workers chose to leave the government service and be contracted. With subsequent
- 16 -



weakening of political support for the de-linkage uncertainties and job insecurity emerged
amongst staff on either side of the partially de-linked institutions. The nursing staff attrition rate
reportedly increased from 10% to 20% within a year of the de-linkage process and the public
sector reforns.
5.3.2(c). The HIV/AIDS epidemic was unrelenting during the period of implementation, and the
Government's commitment to address the epidemic was initially very weak. The adult HIV
prevalence in Zambia remained around 20% from 1993 through 2000. Although the impact of
the epidemic is multi-sectoral, the health sector was among the worse affected. A census of the
health sector manpower in 2001 revealed that 641 staff left the health system in one year, out of
which 40% left because they died. An estimated 48% of clinical officers and 40% of nurses who
left the health system had died. Others has either left the country or abandoned health work. In
Chongwe district visited by the ICR mission, 6 staff died in the last year, with HIV/AIDS
suspected as the cause of death.
5.3.3. Procurement Capacity. As discussed above, the procurement capacity for implementing
the vision of health reforms in Zambia was poorly assessed at the beginning of the project.
Despite initial efforts to strengthen the procurement capacity within CBoH, a Permanent
Secretary effectively dismantled the qualified procurement staff from their positions and hired
unqualified replacements. The Bank has already been cited above for having failed to act strongly
enough to ensure that the appropriate procurement personnel were in place, during a period when
governance issues were emerging within the Ministry of Health. Subsequently, probably
deliberate, weakened procurement capacity within the MOH, avoidable procurement delays and
misprocurement occurred. Examples of situations where the weakened capacity impeded project
implementation, as cited by an ex post procurement review, include procurement documents being
submitted to the Bank without cover letters; technical specifications, bidding documents and
request for proposals being made by personnel unfamiliar with the Bank procurement guidelines
and procedures leading to reviews back and forth; failure to maintain proper books, records and
accounts; and misprocurement for example, of a hundred times more gentamycin than required.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The health reform program was estimated to cost about USD 537 million over the period
1995-1998. The Government was to finance USD 340 million (63%) from its internal resources,
while IDA was to finance USD 56 million (about 10%) through the HSSP credit. Other
cooperating partners were to finance the balance according to the investment program. This
arrangement for financing the program was not borne out subsequently as the SWAP process
began to falter after 1998.
The initial financing plan for the IDA financed amount covered the period 1995-1998, and
allocated USD 38.5 million for rehabilitation of infrastructure, USD 4 million for medical
equipment, USD 8.5 million for drugs and supplies, and a small amount for other recurrent costs.
The civil work category was later reduced, while the drugs, supplies and equipment and recurrent
cost categories were increased.
By the time of project closing, after an 18 months extension, USD 35.4 million of the USD 56
million IDA credit has been disbursed. The difference between the planned and actual amnounts
could be accounted for by the USD 5.2 million cancelled at the time of the extension in 2000, and
- 17-



USD 11.3 million considered cancelled at closing. Financial management issues slowed
disbursement of the credit during the latter part of implementation. Delays by the Government in
making reimbursements for ineligible expenditures from the credit and special account, and for
expenditures due to misprocurement culminated in the credit being suspended in the last two
months prior to closing.
Implementation of the rehabilitation works planned for the 1995-1997 period proved to be
problematic and was scaled back in 1997, with reallocation of credit resources to other
disbursement categories. The reallocation process appears to have worked during this early phase
in project implementation, as evidenced by the shifts from civil works to drugs, supplies,
equipment and to recurrent costs. However, similar effort at reallocation proved to be impossible
to negotiate after 1998-1999 breakdown in relationships between the Bank teams and the
borrower.
Lack of precise information on costs by project categories from the MOH has made it impossible
to determine the cost-effectiveness of project activities. The cost for "rehabilitation" of rural
health centers were considered high at roughly USD 250,000 each. New, more modest rural
health centers constructed outside the project by an NGO through community participation were
estimated to cost around USD 30,000 each. The huge cost difference between the centers
constructed by the project and those through community participation is partly explainable by the
over-proportioned nature of those rehabilitated by the project.
The ICR team was unable to verify that all the appraisal estimate of the Government's or donor
contributions to the reform program were actually expended. As a result of changes in the
Ministry of Health Accounting Office, it was impossible to obtain the financial data necessary for
making a reliable assessment of the total amounts expended as the government's contribution to
the health reform program or specifically to the HSSP by the financing categories. The ICR team
derived the estimated GRZ financing of the health reform program from data published in the
National Health Strategic Plan 1998-2000, and the Financial Report of 2000. The estimates
showed that USD 223 million of the 340 million estimated GRZ contribution at appraisal
materialized.
The only formal co-financier for the credit was the Netherlands Minister for Development
Cooperation (MDC), who provided a USD 2.0 million trust fund administered by the Bank for the
procurement and supply of drugs. Of the USD 2.0 million granted, only USD 1.6 million was
disbursed; the rest was cancelled at the time of project closing. Other partners contributed to the
program through parallel financing arrangements.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Despite the many difficulties, some of the achievements made under the health sector reform
program in Zambia (particularly decentralization and the separation of financing and provision) to
which the new MoH team is committed, are likely to be sustained.
The health reform program has significantly and effectively decentralized the health system to the
district levels. The DHMTs have been created and institutionalized throughout all the 72 districts.
The DHMTs have been significantly empowered through being enabled to exert control over their
budgets. The streamlined funding system through the district basket has also ensured a smooth
- 18 -



and predictable flow of CP funds to the districts despite fluctuations in government funds.
However, human resource shortage will have to be addressed for continuity of health care service
delivery, especially in remote areas.
In the short to medium term, overall health sector financing is likely to be sufficient, though
heavily dependent on outside funding. Budgetary allocations for district health operations have
increased from 34% in 1994 to about 51% of the total recurrent and development budget of the
MoH by 1998. Some degree of community participation in the financing of service delivery has
been achieved through user charges. Eighty percent of the user charges collected by the health
centers are retained by the collecting centers to cover for occasional drug shortages, transport and
fuel costs.
Beyond the likely sustainability of funding as envisioned, other policies and practices which
evolved as a result of the government's health reform program are also considered as likely to be
sustained. The separation of provision and financing, backed by a legislation creating a CBoH,
and the introduction of district planning and management in the decentralization process are all
considered sustainable in the short to medium term.
As for the HSSP's directly supported investments, sustainability is considered as somewhat likely.
Direct investments in the form of drugs, supplies, vehicles and civil works constitute around 75%
of the project's costs. Although no specific Bank project has been planned after the completion of
the HSSP, GRZ has been successful in maintaining and staffing the 32 health centers rehabilitated
with the credit. With the continued participation of donors in the common basket mechanism,
drug supplies are also likely to be continued.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The largest component of the project involved financing of the investment program. Drug
supplies and civil works were the two main activities supported by the credit. Thirty-two out of
the 39 RHCs rehabilitated by the project were fully functional as at time of the ICR mission. The
7 health centers that were not being fully used remained so because of lack of solar panels to
provide energy for the water and heating systems. The recurrent cost associated with the facilities
have been integrated with the MoH budgetary system and funds are flowing through the common
district funding mechanism. The common funding mechanism channels resources including drugs,
supplies, and other recurrent cost that are approved at the quarterly Health Sector Steering
Committee meetings. The staff salaries are still being paid from the MoH budget, although when
the de-linkage process is completed, most of the staff will be contracted through the CBoH as the
health care provision agency.
As discussed above, the health status of Zambians has continued to deteriorate for several
reasons, including HIV/AIDS, widespread poverty and debt. And, despite the negative
experiences for both the Bank and the Government during implementation of the HSSP, there are
reasons to believe that continued Bank engagement in the Zambian health sector is still needed by
both the Government and its partners. The Bank can assist in addressing the difficult institutional
development issues, contribute incremental support to the district basket and provide support to
health NGOs who deliver services in remote areas. Further engagement of the Bank will have to
take into account the lessons learned as outlined below.
- 19-



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank performance during project preparation is considered as marginally satisfactory. As
noted above, the IDA team provided significant policy analysis and technical support during the
design of the reform program that the credit was intended to support. There was effective
collaboration among key players in the Government and in other agencies, notably WHO and
UNICEF. As the reform program took shape, IDA agreed to support the reform effort through a
sector-wide approach rather than targeted project assistance -- under a Sector Investment and
Maintenance Credit. While there was concurrence on the general principles of SWAps, there was
little prior experience in actual practice. The project design was a hybrid in that it embraced these
principles and pledged to implement them. At the same time, it relied on the component structure
of a targeted investment project, with the bulk of the credit funds initially tagged for a costly
infrastructure rehabilitation program that contributed little to the reform process or to health
outcomes.
There was an understanding that as "lending of last resort," IDA disbursement categories would
be adjusted cover gaps in grant support by other CPs. Project documents and agreements did not
adequately spell out the "rules of the game" for this process -- including a policy framework and
agreement about priority setting so that "last resort" funding would be used for high rather than
low priority needs not funded by other CPs; nor were there benchmarks and targets against which
progress toward sector objectives could be measured to determine when adjustments were
needed. A consequence was that interpretation of progress or the lack of it depended on who was
at the table. This arrangement worked as along as like-minded people were collaborating in the
process, but proved to be a serious liability when the shared vision eroded. Given the risk and
actual experience of high turnover in leadership, there should have been a more structured
mechanism for making periodic adjustment when disagreements emerged, as they inevitably did.
Government's interpretation of what "last resort" meant differed on several occasions from
IDA's, seriously undermining project implementation and development impact. There was also
serious underestimation of the capacity enhancement needed in such areas as procurement
planning and financial management, which are critical requirements for effective implementation
of the SWAp. The end result was that a project that was hailed as innovative and path-breaking
when it was launched ended up failing, which in part must be attributed to flaws in the project
design. The Bank's team at preparation disagrees with this assessment.
7.2 Supervision:
As noted in section 3, implementation experience can be divided into two sharply contrasting
periods. During the first, IDA and GRZ shared a vision of the reform process and of SWAp
principles, as they developed a modus operandi for SWAp implementation. All of this unraveled
as opposition to many aspects of the reform coalesced and adopted by MoH leadership which
actively sought to reverse the reforms. From then on, the relationship was adversarial rather than
collaborative, particularly during 1998-1999. With no technical presence on the ground, and with
the door shut at the political level, the Bank was unable to participate when the dialogue was
gradually reopened by other CPs. The ICR team concurs with the review of the supervision of
the project undertaken by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group, that while the task team's
supervision efforts were professional and systematic in dealing with fiduciary problems, the
- 20 -



project had basically failed to achieve its objectives by the time of its original closing date and
should not have been extended -- even on the humanitarian grounds that were being argued at the
time. The Bank's management of a dysfunctional project was too lenient and, overall,
Unsatisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Many outside circumstances (an adverse macroeconomic climate, turnover of leadership, the
HIV/AIDS epidemic, weak procurement and financial management capacity, bad governance)
affected the implementation of this project. The extent to which these risks could have been
better anticipated and addressed in the project design is debatable; using current standards, they
should have been. Technical staff were working against heavy odds during the second phase of
project implementation, and their efforts were undermined by the decision to extend the project
another 18 months. Given the failure of the project to achieve results on the ground and to
sustain support for the reform process, the overall rating of Bank performance must be rated as
Unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The overall program of health reforms in Zambia evolved from the election platform of the MMD
party in the 1991 election. Prior to 1991, under the previous administration, there were ongoing
discussions within the MoH on how to reform the then failing health system. With the electoral
victory of the MMD, won on a popular plat form for broad economic reforms, the health sector
issues easily moved up onto the policy agenda. A core team was created and situated to operate
from outside the MoH, as the HRIT, acting as change agents. The HRIT provided the intellectual
dynamism for the design and implementation of the reforms, supported by a deputy Minister of
Health who subsequently became the Minister. During the early years of the reforms, the Bank,
as well as other partners namely the Netherlands MDC, SIDA, DFID, WHO and UNICEF, were
very much involved in the process. The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated
Satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
During the early period of project implementation, the borrower had a strong commitment to the
reformns and continued ownership of the process that it had cultivated during project preparation
continued, so that implementation commenced smoothly. Sector policies were consistent with the
vision of the reforms: (i) decentralization to the district level, (ii) establishment of common
funding mechanisms at the district level and (iii) introduction of user fees were pursued. Support
to the sector in the form of the supply of drugs, supplies and civil works also proceeded smoothly.
By 1998, the project began encountering obstacles. Govemment's commitment to the reform
process began to waver. The reforms were criticized for being too process-oriented and less
focused on visible results. Politically, it became more convenient to soft-pedal on the reform
process. At around the same period, govemance issues started to surface, which led to further
deterioration of the relationship among the partners in the sector.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of MoH was Unsatisfactory. The contracting out of the medical stores through
a non-transparent process shattered the confidence of the CPs, including the Bank, in the MoH's
- 21 -



commitment to good governance. MoH began censoring its staff for providing information to
CPs. The project-management unit (agreed by covenant) was dismantled, and key staff were
relieved of their positions without good reason and replaced by less tuaLified individual. Ineligible
expenditures were drawn from the credit, and the refund of such funds became problematic.
Some of the CPs continued to fund the district basket at the same level without making
increments as planned; others such as DANIDA pulled away from the basket funding, while the
Bank became mired in the effort to obtain reimbursements for ineligible expenditures and
over-procurement of gentamycin.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower performance during preparation was considered encouraging and satisfactory.
However, the government and implementing agency performance during implementation,
including the abandonment of the SWAp process after 1998 and poor governance in the MoH,
contributed to the project not achieving its development objective. The ICR team considers the
overall borrower performance during HSSP implementation as unsatisfactory. It is notable
however, that the operating environment in the MoH has recently changed to a more positive one,
with the full re-engagement of the cooperating partners and the government in the SWAp process.
The relationship between the government and its cooperating partners has improved as evidenced
by the satisfactory resolution of the issue of vehicles procured in the latter part of 2001.
8. Lessons Learned
The HSSP project was a pioneering effort in the move toward sector-wide support and a flagship
operation in the Africa Region's health sector during its early years. As its performance
progressively deteriorated during 1998-1999, implementation progress slowed as the government
abandoned the SWAp process and issues of misprocurement, ineligible expenditures and bad
governance surfaced. At the time of closing, after an eighteen months extension, the project was
in the inglorious position of being the longest-term project in problem status in the whole Africa
region. Disappointing as the performance may have been, some very useful lessons have been
learned that, if they can inform future operations in Zambia and elsewhere, could improve the
Bank's overall development effectiveness in health sector programs. These include the need for:
8.1. Sustained commitment. It is imperative that Government commitment to a reform program
be sustained through effective advocacy and other efforts to build a broad base of understanding
and support for reform. During the early years of implementation, the presence of highly
committed leadership in the MoH, along with Government's commitment to broader
governmental and economic reforms, provided a conducive environment for the reformers within
the MoH to move forward on the reform agenda. When expected health outcomes were not seen,
public outcry through the media dampened Government commitment to the reform process.
When a ministerial change occurred, the new Minister back-pedaled on key reforms. For example,
the de-linkage of the CBoH from the MoH was abandoned, staff morale plummeted, and brain
drain from the sector accelerated, all of which undermined other aspects of the reform, including
decentralization.
8.2. Good governance. The principles of accountability, transparency and participation form the
core of good govemance. Lack of attention to governance allowed corruption to flourish. Poor
governance undermined efforts of many CPs who needed to make the case of continued support
- 22 -



for health reform in Zambia to their parliaments and goveming bodies. The contracting out of the
medical stores to a private firm through a very opaque process severely undermined the
confidence of the cooperating partners in the govemance capacity of MoH. Subsequently, the
medical stores issue contributed to deterioration of the relationship between the government and
cooperating partners, including the Bank, and severely hampered implementation of the reform
program. Other instances where suspect govemance soured the relationship between the MoH
and the Bank include the several ineligible expenditures incurred and misprocurements.
8.3. Firm stance when fiduciary issues and covenant violations are not promptly resolved. In
the samne way that the Govemment has to uphold the principles of good govemance, the Bank
must also be furm when fiduciary issues and covenant violations (for example, abandonment of the
SWAp process in 1998) are not promptly resolved. After the rnisprocurement of gentamycin and
multiple ineligible SOEs were found, the Bank continued to bend over backwards to
accommodate the excuses offered by the Government about not fulfilling its agreed-upon
timetable for refunds. When the SWAp process broke down, Bank management decided not to
suspend the credit on "humanitarian" grounds. The health sector should not be treated differently
from other sectors when it comes to project management standards. The tendency to treat
problem health projects differently from other sectors did not have a positive impact on the
outcome and implementation effectiveness of this project.
8.4. Sustained strengthening ofprocurement capacity. For an investment-intensive operation
such as the HSSP, where the MoH did not have prior experience with the Bank's procurement
processes, sustained efforts to strengthen procurement capacity assessment are a must. Early
efforts by the project team to build up this capacity were reversed when MoH management
replaced key staff without facing strong opposition from the Bank. Poor procurement capacity
contributed to avoidable delays in obtaining no objections and to the gentamycin fiasco, all of
which undermined project irnplementation effectiveness.
8.5. Maintaining appropriate relationships. A key contributor to the problems faced during the
latter part of the HSSP's implementation was the extremely low quality of the working
relationship between the MoH and the Bank's team. The excellent working relationship during
the early stages of implementation depended a lot on the team's relationship with-one key leader
and close associates. The Bank's team was unable maintain a similar level of trust with their
successors.
8.6. In-country presence. The presence of a dedicated health sector specialist in the Bank's
country office might have helped prevent the near total breakdown that occurred and may also
have facilitated communications between the Government, other CPs, and the team in Washington
when the working relationship became strained. There is a widespread perception that the Bank
disengaged itself from the health reform process in Zambia rather than work with other CPs to
sustain the reform effort during a period when it was under attack.
8.7. Human resource development. Health sector reform is a "people-intensive" process and
requires strong attention to human resource issues. Health staff need to have the right incentives,
have access to continued professional development, and be retained in the health system in a
productive manner. In high HIV prevalence situations, adequate attention needs to be given to
protecting health workers from occupational risks of HIV infection and to the behavioral risks
- 23 -



that have contributed to high HIV prevalence among health workers.
8.8. Addressing technical issues. Despite the policy-intensive nature of reform process, it is
important to engage with the technical personnel who are implementing the reforms. The Bank
was perceived as being engaged at Ministerial levels and out of touch with the technical issues of
the reform process. When the Bank got caught up in the political process, it had no backup at the
technical level to continue engagement at that level. As one participant at the ICR workshop said:
"The Bank felt itself too big to cooperate with the other 'bilaterals' noting that when missions
arrived, they did so in a high profile, dealing only at the political level.
8.9. Monitoring of expenditures and their impact. The experience of this project demonstrates
that a lack of base-line indicators and a system for monitoring progress toward goals, along with
the lack of an adequate mechanism for tracking sector expenditures, seriously undermined
effective implementation of a sector-program approach. In such instances, the appropriate
strategy would be a phased transition toward sector-wide management that supports capacity
building in key areas and protects high-priority public health interventions while introducing
SWAp processes (annual reviews, pooled support for districts, technical support, etc.) over time.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Refer to Annex lO for Detailed Borrower's Comments on draft IDA ICR and for the Borrower's
Evaluation Report
"Zambia introduced radical reforms in 1991, with the aim of providing equity of access to quality
health services as close to the family as possible. The major objective of the reforms has been and
continues to be the development of district health systems for providing basic health services in all
parts of the country. This was done through decentralization of financial and administrative
powers to the district ( and provincial) level hospitals and district health boards.
The policy measures and achievements made are indicated as follows:
(i) Decentralization. This is one area where the reforms have been successful. All 72 district
health boards and 20 hospital boards have been established and are fully functional. The
district health boards plan, allocate resources and account for this resources independently.
(ii) Institutional Development. Our planning, financial management and monitoring and
evaluation system at the district level is one of the successes of the health reforms in Zambia.
The World Bank Team preparing the ICR had an opportunity to attend our Health Sector
Committee meeting where district plans, activities, financial reports are reviewed jointly by
the CPs and GRZ.
(iii) Impact of the Health Reforms Within the Framework of SWAPs on Our Health System.
Strengthening the district health system has been achieved. Through pooled funding,
additional resources have been disbursed to the districts through the district basket. These
resources have contributed immensely to the improvement of district health services through
capacity building in planning, budgeting, priority setting, monitoring and evaluation and
reporting on the impact of various interventions.
-24-



The ICR report must, therefore, acknowledge these developments. Admittedly, the IDA Project
did not contribute to any improvements in the functioning of the district health system. This is
mainly due to a shift from the initial sector programme support approach to a project mode.
It is the general perception of the Ministry of Health and indeed that of our other Co-operating
Partners that the Bank lost an opportunity to contribute to the further development of a very
innovative health reform programme by distancing itself in the overall SWAP programming
arrangements especially at the technical level. Given the recent developments in the sector as
Zambia attempts to create an expanded basket through pooled funding,it is our strong belief that
our reforms will be sustained. The state of our partnership has blossomed to unprecedented
levels. Most of the governance issues that derailed our reforms during the 1998-199 have since
been resolved. This is the most opportune timne for the Bank to participate in shaping and
advancing health reforms within the SWAP framework in Zambia."
(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments on Trust Fund [TF#020967 (Netherlands ref.# ZM004405)] provided by the Netherlands
Mtnistryfor Development Cooperation, The Royal Netherlands Embassy, Lusaka, Zambia
Mr. Muhammad Ali Pate,
Public Health Specialist, Africa Region Human Development
Telephone :1-202-473-4463
Fax : 1-202-473-8299
Lusaka, 27 September 2002
Your ref.: project ID P003239
Subject: Request for comments on draft-ICR-report by World Bank (WB) from single co-financing
source, the Dutch Trust Fund, to named project financing the Health Sector Support Programme
(HSSP) in Zambia from 1995-2002.
Dear Sir
Thank you for sharing the draft ICR report with me. First I will comment on some of the major issues
raised by the report, then I will add some comments to the lessons learned.
To expect health status improvements to be achieved by the Health Sector Support Programme (HSSP),
amidst strong influences (poverty, poor economic performance, droughts and the HIV/AIDS epidemic) to
the contrary, has been quite narrow minded and too ambitious. I do think that significant improvements
have been achieved in the functioning of the health system. I refer to some of the statements made in the
report:
Page 7 2nd paragraph: Public sector resource allocation to district level health authorities based on
population and disease burden has resulted in greater geographical equity although it was less
successful in targeting the poorest.
Page 8: "Vaccination rates have increased, fertility has declined, and contraceptive use rose..." and
the trend is expected to continue.
Page 9 f): "To the extent that this (shift ofpublic spending from hospital-based curative
care toward primary and preventive care in the districts) has occurred, Zambia probably
is getting more value for its public-sector expenditures than before." Abt Associates (see
- 25 -



1st paragraph page 7) have confirmed the shift.
Indeed the project, complementing the efforts of other partners, did help to sustain district level
care (see page 1, last paragraph), amidst difficult circumstances, especially during the period
marked by inadequate political leadership, poor governance and the collapse of the de-linkage
(read: human resource management) process. The empowerment of the district level health
authorities through the institutionalisation of effective management systems for
planning/budgeting and monitoring & evaluation (Health Management Information System
(HMIS) & Financial Management Administration Systems (FAMS)) joined with direct district
financing has proven to be very robust. It is surprising that this deconcentration has survived the
earlier mentioned difficult circumstances. Sustained predictable and regular disbursements (a
reality since 2000) to the districts is key to building on this attainment.
I completely agree that the civil works can not be considered to be cost effective. One because
they have been designed as little white elephants and two because their effectiveness depends and
correctly balanced resources in greater numbers per facility. A significant part of the failure of the
project to respond to the breakdown of constructive dialogue with the Ministry of Health (MoH)
can be attributed to the design of the Project (strong emphasis on infrastructure, without adequate
capital sector investment plan for example! I agree that "Insufficient efforts were made by the
project to strengthen capacity within the health sector." (page 2, 3rd paragraph) When problems
arose not only funding stopped, but also communication failed.
External monitoring and evaluation may have been inadequate. Internal M&E have been going
from strength to strength. Sector indicators are being finalised. The HMIS produces quarterly 11
indicators used for district performance assessment. FAMS shows per district quarterly income
amounts per source, with expenditure monitoring within capped budget-lines/cost centres and
summaries of outstanding debts and imprests. This is being underpinned by regular internal audit
reports, under the auspices of the Auditor General. The recently reinstated Provincial Health
Offices (PHO) are not only involved in regular supervision, but are also soon to start producing
performance assessments of the districts. By June next year a Joint Mid-Term Review is being
planned.
The Financing Reforms have been successful in the sense that financing mechanisms have been
rationalised and favour preventive and district services. My recollection is that the MoH and other
CPs were under the impression that the WB did promote user fees (see page 8: penultimate
paragraph). Debate has been re-opened as to the effectiveness of user fees. I also quote from page
9 paragraph 1: ". . .households accounted for over a third (35 percent in 1998) of the overall health
expenditures in the country."
It should be noted that whereas the Government of the Republic Zambia (GRZ) has pledged to
double its contribution to the District Health Basket (DHB) for the year 2003. Higher service level
recurrent funding is mostly for the account of GRZ as remain personnel emoluments across the
board.
It is a really pity that the MoH and the CBoH have not benefited much more from the WB
expertise in the area of procurement. This indeed remains a weak link.
Coming to the lesson learned I would like to highlight the rigidity of the WB to adapt to wavering
political leadership. Strong leadership is of paramount importance to the success of complicated
- 26 -



processes such as reforms. On the other hand is it hard to imagine that any young (or old!)
democracy would not undergo fluctuations in such support. In my opinion the bureaucracy does
provide some opportunity for stabilisation: in times of low support one can still work on building
blocks for future policies: Health Expenditure Review (HER), expenditure tracking, sectoral
Medium Term Expenditure and Financing Frameworks (MTEFF), cost analysis etc..
From my last comment I subscribe wholeheartedly to lesson learned 8.6 (In-country presence):
disengagement from processes such as the Zambian Health Reforms is very disruptive, both from
the perspective of the Project as the bi- and multi-lateral relationships. This should be avoided and
requires close co-operation with other Co-operating Partners and the national stakeholders.
I do appreciate this opportunity for comments and sincerely hope that the WB will be able to
re-take its appropriate place in the Zambian Health Reforms Process.
Yours sincerely, Marco Gerritsen.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 27 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
;fi7 - - n IndicatorlMatrx  . -  -        -  rojecte In t}t'R-S     .   -           ActualhatbtEtliE  ta i'.
Life Expectancy at birth               Females 55 yrs, Males 53 yrs (1992 ZDHS) 43 years (WDI 2000)
Infant Mortality Rate                  107/1000 Live bIrths ( 1992 ZDHS)     114/1000 live births (WDI 2000)
Under-5 Mortality Rate                 190 (1992 ZDHS)                       197 (1996 ZDHS)
Matemal Mortality Ratio               200 per 100,000 nstitutional deliveres  650 per 100,000 lve births (1996 ZDHS)
Indicators were not systemmatically collected during project imnplementation.
Output Indicators:
,-IndlcalarMatilix                             -6'* :jR . PreActelnIttRt -.  -  Actual/lateas-imu
Sector Performance Indicators          Baseline
(a) Service Delivery
Geographical access to health       50% rural dwellers live within 12 km  nta
facilties
Physicians per capita              0n1 per 1000 populaton                 nta
Nurse per capita                    n/a                                   n/a
% of Clinic aKtendances appropriately  n/a                                rva
diagnosed & treated
(b) Child Health
Measles immunization                77%                                   76% (1996)
3 doses DPT (12-23 months)          77%                                   80% (1996)
3 doses Polio (12-23 months)        76%                                   79% (1996)
Under-5 with fever receiving medical
treatment                           67%                                   nta
Malaria case fatality               25 per 1,000                          45 per 1,000
(c) Communicable Diseases Control
STD Case management                 n/a                                   n/a
TB treatment completion rate        n/a                                   nta
New TB cases                        16,863 (1990)                         n/a
Malaria incidence                   287 per 1000                          n/a
(d) Matemal & Reproductive Health
Contraceptive prevalence            15%                                   26% married women (1996 ZDHS)
Total fertility rate                 6.5                                   5.5 (1998 WDI)
Professional assistance with delivery  52%                                47%
(e) Nutrition
Stunting incidence under 5          40%                                   42% (1998)
Iodine deficiency                   n/a                                   n/a
(f) Heath Care Financing                n/a                                   n/a
(g) System Management
FAMS                                                                       Functional
HMIS          *                                                           Functonal
End of project
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Policy Development                                   1.50           4.11
Investments and Recurrent Costs                     54.00          30.54
Monitoring and Evaluation                            0.50           0.00
Total Baseline Cost                                 56.00          34.65
Total Project Costs             56.00
Total Financing Required             56.00          34.65
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     32.00         5.50         3.00          3.10        43.60
(30.00)       (5 .00)      (3.00)        (0.00)      (38.00)
2. Goods                     10.20         0.40         2.70         75.10        88.40
(10.10)       (0.40)       (2.50)        (0.00)      (13.00)
3. Services                                0.00         4.80         73.40        78.20
__________________     0           (0.00)       (4.80)       (0.00)       (4.80)
4. Miscellaneous                           0.00         0.20         326.40       326.60
Incremental Recurrent        ()           (0.00)        (0.20)       (0.00)      (0.20)
C o sts_                  _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _  _ _
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (03.00)
6. Miscellaneous                           0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
O           (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     42.20          5.90        10.70        478.00       536.80
(40.10)       (5.40)       (10.50)       (0.00)      (56.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent
1. Works                     9.91          0.23         0.00         0.00        10.14
(9.91)        (0.23)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (10.14)
2. Goods                     14.45         0.00         0.74                     15.19
___________ (14.45)  (0.00)  (0.74)      (0)        (15.19)
3. Services                                3.50         0.61         0.00         4.11
0           (3.50)       (0.61)       (0.00)      (4.11)
- 29-



4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00          5.21          0.00          5.21
Incremental Recurrent           (0.00)         (0.00)        (5.21)         (0.00)        (5.21)
Costs__                                                                                   _ _   _ _
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        24.36           3.73          6.56           0.00         34.65
_    (24.36)        (3.73)         (6.56)        (0.00)       (34.65)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Expenditure Category (1) (in US$ million equivalent)
>aY                           .                                                  e '1, ih8  ...-. ectageo ofAppraisal
Expenditure Category       Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate '    s    - "   p      ,.
C-  r  _Banks' v                                 Govt.             Bafi-  ..
Govt.                            vt.   .    . Ba  Banki  GoVt:r CoF.
1. Policy Development     1.50      0.00      5.50      4.11      0.00              274.0    0.0    0.0
2. Investment/Recurrent                                                      1.60
Costs
a) Infrastructure/Rehab  38.50      2.30      3.50      10.14                        26.3    0.0    0.0
b) Medical Equipment     4.00       8.00      6.00                                   0.0     0.0    0.0
c) Training               2.00      0.00      11.10                                   0.0    0.0    0.0
d) Information System     0.50      0.00      9.00                                    0.0    0.0    0.0
e) District Operations    0.50     297.70    31.00      5.21      104.50            1042.0  35.1    0.0
f) Drugs/Supplies (2)     8.50     32.00      19.80     15.19                        178.7   0.0    0.0
g) Technical Assistance   0.00      0.00     54.10                                    0.0    0.0    0.0
3. Other (3)              0.00      0.00      0.00                118.60              0.0    0.0    0.0
4. Monitoring/Evaluation  0.50                0.90                                    0.0           0.0
Total                    56.00     340.00    140.90     34.65     223.10     1.60    61.9    65.6   1.1
(1) Data for actual expenditure obtained from government's reports on health expenditure 1995-1998, financing
plan given in SAR covers 1995-1998.
Only co-financing given is Dutch Trust Fund for specific drug procurement, other donors financed in
parallel.
(2) Bank actual expenditure on drugs and supplies includes medical equipments.
(3) Government expenditure (other), gives all other expenditures in health sector except district operations.
- 30 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
not applicable
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identiflcation/Preparation
4/1992                      7    2 Team Leaders
2 Public Health Specialists
2 Economists
I Nutrition Specialist
12/1992                    13   Joint Mission of Cooperating
Partners:
(UNICEF, WHO, DANIDA,
IDA), 2 PHN Spec,
I Urban Health,
I Economist,
I Field Operations (WHO),
2 Nutrition Specialists (UNICEF)
2 Field Representatives (WHO /
UNICEF)
1-2/1993                    3    1 Economist (Task Leader); I
PHS/Deputy Task Leader, I
Urban Health; DANIDA
Planning Team; SIDA Appraisal
Team
10/1993                     8    1 Economist/TL, I Health, 2
Sector Reform, 2 Nutrition, I
Urban Health, I Family Planning
1/1994                      5    1 Team Leader, I PHN, I PH, I
Architect, I Health
Appraisal/Negotiation
4/1994                       7   1 Team Leader, 1 Reformn &
Implementation, Reform
Strategy, Health &
Information Systems, I
Family Planning, I
Infrastructure &
Rehabilitation
10/1994                     3    1 Team Leader, I PHN, I
Architect
11/1994                     2    1 Health, I
Infrastructure/Architect
Supervision
4/1995                       2   1 Team Leader, I PH                S             S
9/1995                       2   1 PH, I Infrastructure             S            S
11/1995                     4    1 PH, I Infrastructure, I         S             S
Pharmaceuticals, I Health Care
Financing
4/1996                       3   1 Human Resources Economist, I     S             S
PH, I Pharmaceuticals
- 32 -



7/1996                      3   1 PH, I Civil Works, I HR         S            S
10/1996                     2   1 Health Systems, I HR            S            S
4/1997                      2   1 Team Leader, I Architect,       S            S
10/1997                     6   1 Team Leader/PH, I               S            S
Implementation/HMIS, 1 Health
Economics, 1 Sector Investment
Program Development, I
Procurement/Disbursement
4/1998                      9   1 Team Leader, I Operations       S            S
Analysis, I Health Economics, 1
Evaluation, 3 Procurement, I
Nutrition, 1 HIV/AIDS
12/1998                     5   1 Sector Manager, I Lead Health   S            U
Sector, 2 Procurement, I Social
Sector
5/1999                      7   1 Team Leader; I Operations, 2    S            U
Procurement, I Financial
Management, 1 Lead Health, I
Health
10/2000                     4   1 Team Leader, I Operations, I    U            U
Health, I Procurement
2/22/02                     5   I Team Leader, I Operations, I    U            u
Technical, 1 Procurement, I
Financial Management
ICR
7/2002                      2    1 PH, I Lead Pop & Health,       U            U
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              69.2                      321.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                   68.9                       77.6
Supervision                           307.44                      581.9
ICR                                    16.94                      81.34
Total                                 462.47                   1,062.14
- 33 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
n Macro policies                     O H OSUOM      O N * NA
Z Sector Policies                    OH OSU@M ON O NA
3 Physical                           O H OSUOM * N O NA
O Financial                          O H OSUOM      O N * NA
O Institutional Development          0 H O SU O M O N 0 NA
F Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
D Poverty Reduction            O H  OSUOM     O N  *NA
FZGender                       OH   OSUOM     O N O NA
O Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Private sector development        0 H O SU O M 0 N O NA
OI Public sector management          0 H O SU O M 0 N S NA
D Other (Please specify)             O H OSUOM      O N * NA
-34 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
 Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
 Supervision                                       OHS OS       * U   O HU
 Overall                                           OHS OS       * U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       *U    O HU
E Overall                                           OHS OS       * u   O HU
- 35 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. World Bank. Staff Appraisal Report, Zambia Health Sector Support Project, October 4,
1994
2. IDA. Development Credit Agreement, Cr. 2660-ZA, December 8,1994
3. GRZ. National Health Strategic Plan, 1995-1999, October 20,1994
4. GRZ. National Health Strategic Plan, 98-00, Executive Summary & Plan, April 1998
5. Comprehensive Review of the Zambian Health Reforms, May 1997
Volume 1 Main Report
Volume 2 Technical Reports
6. GRZ/UNICEF. Program of Cooperation, Mid-term Review, 1997-2001
7. World Bank. Supervision Report from Technical Review Mission, December 1999
8. Cooperating Partners. Report on Joint Identification & Formulation Mission for a
Sector Wide Approach to Health in Zambia, Preparation Mission Jan 9-17, 2000),
February 2000
9. GRZ. Zambia Demographic and Health Surveys, 1992,1996
10. Sector Investment Programs in Africa: Issues and Experience, September 1997
11. Education and Health in Sub-Saharan Africa: A Review of Sector Wide Approaches,
2001
12. World Bank. Zambia Country Assistance Evaluation, May 2002
- 36 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
- 37 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
Outcome of the Zambia Health Sector Support Project ( HSSP)
Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report (ILI) Workshop
June 25, 2002 at Chrismar Hotel, Lusaka
The ILI workshop was attended by staff from the Ministry of Health and Central Board of
Health, former Health Reform Implementation Team members, representatives from African
Development and JICA, and the Church Health Association of Zambia. The session was
co-moderated by Tom Merrick and Muhammad Pate who comprised the Bank's ILI mission
team.
Discussions during the workshop were focused around questions earlier circulated to the
participants on the overall health reform program and the Bank's support through the HSSP
credit. Annex 1 of this report outlines the agenda for the workshop.
The key messages from the workshop are outlined below.
9.1. Overall Health Reform Program
9.1(a). Impact of reforms on ear-marked programs funded. The health reforms aimed to
transform the Zambian health system from one that is oriented towards selective primary health
care, with multiple ear-marked programs funded, to one which provides comprehensive primary
care financed through the sector wide approach. In the transition process, some of the
ear-marked programs such as the TB program were dismantled abruptly. The provincial/district
TB control prograns which were working well before the reforms fell apart during the
transition. Some donors withdrew support for drugs, others withdrew from monitoring etc.
Malaria and Leprosy programs were reportedly similarly affected in the transition. Others such
as the Family Planning program and EPI may have survived because specific donors continued to
finance them directly.
9.1(b). Reform focused on process rather than outcomes. Health indicators deteriorated while
the reform program was progressing. After the first few years of the reforms, visible outcomes
were not obvious. There was a genuine feeling that the reform process was too focused on
dealing with the process with insufficient attention to the health outcomes. Drug shortages were
prevalent, quality of care deteriorated especially in the urban areas. At some point, "reverse
referrals" were made from more urban centers to the district/rural centers because of
unavailability of drugs.
9.1(c). Human resource issues. The lack of human resources to staff the rural health centers is
significant. Despite governments efforts at training and deploying staff, the rural health centers
have continued to suffer. The H1V/AIDS epidemic has taken its toll on health staff as well.
Budgets focus mostly on infrastructure, and less on allowances for the staff at the decentralized
levels. There are very few incentives for health workers to remain in the rural areas. The
de-linkage process of effectively separating the MOH and CBOH in a purchaser-provider split
has not been completed either at the center or at the decentralized levels. As such, the lines of
responsibilities between staff in both organizations were not always clear.
9.1(d). District levelffunction of the health system. There has been improved access to
commodities and medicines in the districts, with significantly improved community involvement
- 38 -



in the decisions and management of the resources at the district and sub district levels. Although
the supplies of commodities has improved, there are intermittent periods of shortages
experienced. The shortages are occasioned by lower over all stocks rather than with the
distribution system.
9.1(e). Health center kits. As mentioned above, the distribution system for the rural health
center (RHC) kits is functional. The allocation of the kits sometimes results in fewer kits than
the available rural health centers being supplied to a district. The district health management
team (DHMT) then has to unpack the kits and divide the contents up amongst the several RHCs.
Some of the RHCs receive medications which are not in line with the existing morbidities and
mortality in their areas. The kits have not been revised to take into account the changes in
disease patterns over the years. The urban health centers were not included for the provision of
kits by most donors. In contrast, the urban health centers were better staffed than the rural
health centers.
9.1(0). Common District Funding Mechanism. The funding mechanism using the "basket" is
considered a success story. The resources are directed to the decentralized units in the system.
However, the extent to which the poor are specifically targeted within the populations covered
by such units is not entirely clear. User fees are now universally charged in all health facilities.
Effective uniform waivers are in place to protect the vulnerable. Those who are unable to pay
the user fees are not deprived access to services at the health facilities.
9.2. The Health Sector Support Project
9.2(a) Project design. The HSSP was considered appropriately designed for the purpose it was
meant to perform. However, it was not implemented well. Several factors contributed to the
poor implementation, as outlined below.
9.2(b). Reversion from program support to project approach. The HSSP started out to provide
support to the government's overall health reform program, but gradually slid back to the
traditional project approach. The several ineligible expenditures that arose during the
implementation may have been as a result of differing interpretations of the mode. The issue of
the health posts, which the MOH wanted to construct for improving access at the rural areas,
was rejected by the Bank.
9.2(c). Adversarial relationship. The deterioration in the relationship between the Bank team
and the MOH leadership which occurred in the mid-period of implementation also played a key
role in stifling project implementation. The Bank's physical absence was also considered
contributory to the situation as communication may not have flowed as it should have. The
Bank was often not present at the weekly and quarterly meetings on the SWAP due to absence
of a dedicated health sector specialist in the country office.
9.2(d). High level political level involvement. The Bank was perceived to be involved mostly at
the political level in issues that are better discussed and resolved at the technical level. A
participant stated, " the World Bank appeared as if it was too big to participate with the
bi-laterals".
9.2(e). Institutional Capacity Weaknesses. At the inception of the HSSP, the MOH institutional
capacity to implement the project were considered weak. Focused efforts to develop the
- 39 -



capacity within the Ministry were begun early on during implementation, but not sufficiently or
sustained. As such, issues of procurement and financial management emerged as stumbling
blocks partly because of lack of people familiar with or experienced in dealing with the Bank's
procurement processes. If there is to be a future engagement of the Bank in the health sector,
efforts at addressing the presently weak procurement capacity, developing a sectoral expenditure
framework and strengthening the financial management system will be important areas to
consider.
9.3. List of People met by the HSSP ILl Mission
Ministry of Health and Central Board of Health
1. Hon. Minister of Health, Dr Brian Chituwo, MP
2. Dr Gavin Silwamba, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health ( Retired 6/20/2002)
3. Dr Miti , Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health ( after 6/20/2002)
4. Dr Ben Chirwa, Acting Director General CBoH
5. Mr Davies Chimfwenbe, Director of Planning, MoH
6. Mr Charles, Kayira, DHMT Chongwe
7. Environmental Health Officer, Chongwe
8. Ms. Chisala, DHMT, Chongwe
9. Mr Sichone, Procurement Officer, MoH
10. Mr Mwanza, Architect, MoH
11. Ms. Grace Makayi, Donor Coordinator, MoH
12. Mr Martin Mwalikanga, Lwimba RHC
13. Chairman, Village Health Committee
14. Clinical Officer, Chinyunyu Health Center
15. Nurse, Chinyunyu Health Center
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
16. Hon. Minister of Finance and Econ. Development, Mr Emmanuel Kasonde, MP
Cooperating Partners
17. Her Excellency, Ms. Christina Rehlen, Ambassador, Embassy of Sweden
18. Dr Mwenda-Pole, Embassy of Sweden
19. Ms Ann-Carin Kandima, Embassy of Sweden
20. Mr Tomas Goengdt, Danish Embassy
21. Mr Anthony Daly, DFID
22. Mr Robert Clay, USAID
23. Dr Nosa Orobaton, Chief of Party, Zambia Integrated Health Program
24. Mr Oliver Hazembe, MSH, Lusaka
25. Dr Eddie Limnbambala, WHO, Lusaka, Zambia.
26. Dr Edward Maganu, Resident Representative, WHO, Lusaka, Zambia
27. Dr Stella Goings, Resident Representative, UNICEF
28. Ms. Margaret Callaghan, UNFPA
29. Ms. Priscilla Likwasi, CIDA
30. Dr Oliver Lulembo, Ireland Aid
ICR Workshop Participants
31. Ms Grace Makayi, MOH
32. Mr. Manns Simwanza, MOH
-40 -



33. Mr Raphael Mwanza, MOH
34. Ms. Kakol Mulalelo, CBOH
35. Mr. Lamecu Sichone, MOH
36. Mr Mulenga Mulebo, Crown Agents
37. Mr Yoram Kabulaya, MOH
38. Mr Alan Mbewe, MOH
39. Mr Oliver Hazembe, MSH
40. Ms. Chungu Chama, ADB/HSSP II
41. Ms Beatrice Musamba, CHAZ
42. Ms Regina Nkwilimba, MOH
43. Mr Partson Mwanza, MOH
44. Dr Hidero Otake, MOH/JICA
45. Mr Nicholas Chukweya, MOH
Medical Stores Management
Mr. David Storey, Managing Director
University of Zambia, Department of Economics
1. Mr Oswald Mungule
2. Ms. Pamela Kabaso
-41 -



9.4. Agenda for the HSSP ILI Workshop, Chrismar Hotel, Lusaka
Tuesday June 25, 2002
1.   9.00-9.15 Welcome Remarks and Introductions
2.   9.15-9.30 Workshop Background Information
3.   9.30-9.45 Presentation on the Overall Zambian Health Reform Program
4.   9.45-10.30  Discussion
(a) Do you think that the health reforms have succeeded in improving the
quality and accessibility of health services in Zambia and in improving
the health status of the Zambian population? If so, can you give
examples; if not, can you suggest why?
(b) What aspects of the health reforms do you consider most successful?
(c) What aspects of the health reforms do you consider not successful?
(d) What are the key lessons learned from your perspective of the health
reforms
5. 10.30-10.45 Tea/Coffee Break
6. 10.45-11.00 The Health Sector Support Project - Background Information
7. 11.00-12.00 Discussion
(a) What do you consider are the major achievements of the HSSP?
(b) What do you consider are the weaknesses of the HSSP based on your
experience?
(c) Could you identify specific problem areas (e.g. procurement of
pharmaceuticals) that would lead us to rethink the approach taken in
HSSP?
(d) What should the Bank and GRZ have done differently in designing the
HSSP to have avoided some of the problems that occurred during
implementation?
(e) Given the approach taken in Zambia ( a sector-wide investment
program rather than a traditional project), were the Bank's fiduciary
safeguards sufficient and appropriate?
(f) What definitions/interpretations were there (or are there) among GRZ
and partners of the Bank being "the donor of last resort"?
(g) What do you think are the HSSPs contribution to institutional
development in Zambia?
(h) To what extent has the absence of dedicated country office staff
contributed to the problems faced?
(i) What are the key lessons to be learned from the HSSP implementation?
() Would you agree that there is a future role for IDA in the health sector?
If yes, in what way, and if no, why?
-42-



Additional Annex 10. Comments from MoH & Borrower's Implementation Completion
Report on Cr. 2660-ZA
10.1 Borrower's Comments on the draft Implementation Completion Report Prepared by IDA
s"r~~~~~~~~~~~~~h MU PAv gm
?Wkhbw 2&3v46                       ii
P*. 25344
IMUSUIC OP XMWA
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
NCEKE HOUSE
5= 30M5
LUSAK
27 December 2002
Yaw Ansu
Country Director for Zambia
World Bank, IDA
1818 H Street NW
Washington DC 20433
USA
MINISTRY OF HEALTH COMMENTS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION
REPORT (ICR) ON THE HSSP IDA 26600
We have reviewed the contents of the ICR and wish to comments as follows:
I.    General presentation of the report
The general presentation of the report is acceptable. The language used in some
sections however needs to be toned. The use of such terms as 'lack of capacity',
'insufficient effort' and 'unsatisfactory performance' on the part of the Ministry of
health in Zambia gives the impression that health reforms have not benefited the
Zambian population.
II. Impact of Health Reforms in Zambia
Zambia introduced radical health reforms in 1991, with the aim of providing equity of
access to quality health services as close to the family as possible. The major
objective of the reforms has been and continues to be the development of district
health systems for providing basic health services in all parts of the country. This
-43 -



was done through decentralization of financial and administrative powers to the
district (and provincial) level hospitals and district health boards.
Two comprehensive reviews of the reforms have been done in Zambia. One in 1996,
and the most recent in 2000. The 2000 review focused on the following appraisals of
the system:
(i) Organization and reform of the sector.
(ii) The social context.
(iii) Economics and financing.
(iv) Service delivery (epidemiology and service delivery, infrastructure, drugs and
supplies and human resources).
(v) Support systems
- Institutional and management
- Financial management
It is evident from the two reports that the Zambian health reforms have resulted in
an improved district health system. Considering that the district was the focus of our
reforms, this must be acknowledged as a great achievement in our reform process.
Prior to the inception of health reforms, our health sector was near total collapse and
was characterized with:
*   Poor infrastructure and access to services;
*   Poor conditions of service;
*   Poor performance of most primary health care programmes which have led to
poor indicates such as high infant and maternal mortality rates and
*   Heavy disease burden.
Measures to address these problems were articulated in the National Health Policies and
Strategies in 1991.
Indicated below are the policy measures undertaken and achievements made:
a. Decentralization: The main thrust of the reforms was to decentralize planning and
decision making in the provision of district health services through managerial autonomy
and professional autonomy. This is perhaps one area where the reforms have been
successful. All 72 district health boards and 20 hospital boards have been established
and are fully functional. For those boards whose term expired, the Ministry is currently
reappointing new board members.
The district health boards plan, allocate resources and account for these resources
independently.
As regards professional autonomy, in 1997, the Ministry of Health attempted to delink
health workers from the civil service to Health Boards. The delinkage process was to
have been completed by 31 December 1997. The aim of the delinkage process was to
afford Government a chance to offer better salaries for health workers outside the
general government bureaucracy where negotiations can be protracted. The Ministry of
- 44 -



Health could not proceed with the delinkage due to an injunction by the Unions
representing health workers which restrained Government from transferring civil servants
to the Health Boards, until the terms of their transfer and conditions of service were
negotiated and agreed.
Following the restructuring of the Ministry of Health in October 2002, which left only 91
health workers at Ministry Headquarters, delinkage, was effected. The Ministry of Health
working in collaboration with the Public Service Management Division at Cabinet Office
have since worked out the modalities for transferring civil servants to the Health Boards,
worked out conditions of service and developed prototype structures for hospitals and
district health boards. Health workers will finally be delinked on 31 December 2002.
b. Institutional Development: Our planning, financial management and monitoring and
evaluation system at the district level is one of the successes of the health reforms in
Zambia. The World Bank Team preparing the ICR had an opportunity to attend our
Health Sector Committee meeting where district plans, activities, financial reports are
reviewed jointly by the CPs and GRZ. The quality of the reports and valuable input from
the stakeholders during the review process is clear evidence of how far we have gone to
strengthen our M&E system for SWAPs. In addition every year two joint reviews of the
sector are held in through the Biannual Consultative meetings held in April and
November. The April meetings reviews the performance of the sector during the previous
year while the November meeting reviews sector plans. The World Bank country office
has been invited to these meetings. To our disappointment the Bank officials do not
attend these meetings.
c. The Impact of the Health Reforms Within the Framework of SWAPs On Our
Health System
As mentioned above, Zambia has made considerable efforts to improve the district health
services by strengthening the district health system. This has been achieved through
decentralization of health services. In its attempt to achieve the goals of decentralization,
Government shifted more resources to the district from 7% of the total budget to
approximately 50% of the total Ministry of Health budget by 2002.
Through pooled funding, additional resources have been disbursed to the districts
through the district basket. These resources have contributed immensely to the
improvement of district health services through capacity building in planning, budgeting,
priority setting, monitoring and evaluation and reporting on the impact of various
interventions. Recently, it has been acknowledged that without this investment at the
district, Zambia would have been in a worse off situation given the scourge of HIV/AIDS
pandemic and high levels of poverty. Improved district health services have contributed
to stabilizing health indicators.
The ICR report must, therefore, acknowledge these developments. Admittedly, the IDA
Project did not contribute to any improvements in the functioning of the district health
system. This is mainly due to a shift from the initial sector programme support approach
to a project mode.
d. Performance:
-45 -



The Banks bureaucratic procedures and an uncompromising stance on a number of
disagreements, which arose due to misunderstandings, may have also contributed to
this. The Ministry made numerous requests for'no objections' for procurement of goods
and services, which if passed by the Bank, would have made an overall impact in the
sector.
e. Revised objective: The problem during the period referred to was as a result of
partnership problems experienced between the Ministry of Health and the Co-operating
partners. This arose due to a breakdown in coordination meetings, which had in the past
created a forum for resolving contentious issues.
f. Creation of Health Boards: Health Boards have never been abolished in Zambia. The
Minister of Health has in the past dissolved boards and appointed new members where a
board had been found to under-perform.
g. Operational Research and Developments: The Bank was invited to participate in the
2000 Joint Identification and Formulation Mission, an appraisal which has helped to put
the reforms back on track. Unfortunately, the Bank did not participate in the review.
h. Health Posts: Given the staff shortages and the problems of equity of access to basic
health services, the Health Post model is the most desirable approach to solving these
problems. Government has continued to pursue this policy.
i. Procurement and Logistics Management: The Bank should have recruited a
procurement specialist from the inception of the programme. The Project staff should
have also undergone an intensive orientation programme in bank procurement
procedures.
j. Bank and Borrowers Performance: The perception of the Ministry is
that the Banks operational procedures created inefficiencies, which affected implementation
of activities. Its performance could in all fairness be rated as unsatisfactory.
k. Firm stance when Fiduciary Issues were not Promptly Resolved. Dispute
resolution under SWAP programming arrangements must take cognizance of the need to
ensure continued flow of funds while disputes are being resolved.
The Ministry of Health and its Co-operating Partners have through experience realized
that suspending disbursements while resolving disputes can lead to reversal in initial
gains made. It is for this reason that a code of conduct to regulate the manner in which
disputes would be resolved has been developed. The code of conduct is aimed at
quickening the pace at which disputes are resolved and also to ensure that there is a
predictable and constant flow of funds to the sector while disputes are being resolved.
1. Conclusion
It is the general perception of the Ministry of Health and indeed that of our other
Co-operating Partners (DFID, DANIDA, SIDA, DGIS (Dutch), EU) that the Bank lost an
opportunity to contribute to the further development of a very innovative health reform
-46 -



programme by distancing itself in the overall SWAP programming arrangements especially at
the technical level. Given the recent developments in the sector as Zambia attempts to
create an expanded basket through pooled funding, it is our strong belief that our reforms
will be sustained. The state of our partnership has blossomed to unprecedented levels. This
is mainly due to strong SWAP co-ordinating structures under the able leadership of the
Minister of Health and the Permanent Secretary. Most of the governance issues that derailed
our reforms during the period 1998 - 1999 have since been resolved. This is the most
opportune time for the Bank to participate in shaping and advancing health. reforms within
the SWAP framework in Zambia.
Dr. S. K. Miti
Permanent Secretary
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
c.c.  Hon. Dr. B. Chituwo, MP
Minister of Health
c.c.  Hon. G. Chulumanda, MP
Deputy Minister of Health
c.c.  Mr. D. Chimfwembe
Director of Planning and Development
c.c.  Mr. F. V. Phiri
Assistant Director - Planning & Development
c.c.  Mr. N. Chikwenya
Donor Co-ordinator
c.c.  Dr. Bert Voetberg
World Bank
Africa Region
c.c.  Dr. Pate Muhammed Ali
World Bank
Washington
c.c.  Mr. D. S. Diangamo
Secretary to the Cabinet
c.c.  Mr. F. Mbewe
World Bank Portfolio Coordinator
-47 -



10.2 Summary ofBorrower's Implementation Completion Report Prepared by MoH
ZAMBIA: GOVERNMENT'S IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
1995 - 2002
C j J JIB1A -.ONN
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
-48 -



1   Introduction and Background
2.  Project Aims and Objectives
3.  Project Description
4.  Project Components
5.  Expected Outputs
6.  Outputs by Component
7.  Costs and Financing
8.  Major Factors Affecting the Implementation
9.  Bank and Borrower Performance
10. Lessons Learnt from the HSSP Experience
11. Government's Recommendation for Future Collaboration with the World Bank
1.    Introduction and Background
The Zambia Health Sector Support Project was designed as an integrated sector
support project. This was at a time when the Government had initiated health
reforms in line with the change from a socialist government to a capitalist one. The
total costs of the Zambian Government's Health Sector Support Programme was US$
537 million of which the International Development Association was to provide
US$56 million equivalent - approximately 10% of the programme cost over a period
of five years.
The project was to support the Government in on-going development and of policy
and operations. This approach differed with the traditional investment projects in
that instead of the appraisal process focusing on planning the specific items, the
sector support approach appraisal focused on the nature of the apex institution, with
the specific investment items being identified throughout the project implementation.
On 8 December 1994, the Zambian Government and the International Development
Association signed a Credit Agreement for the Zambia Health Sector Project. Under
the Credit Agreement, the association agreed to lend Zambia an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty-eight million and seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR38,700,000) equivalent to fifty six million United States Dollars
(US$56,000,000.00).
The funds were intended to implement the rolling five - year Health Sector Strategic
Plan and Investment Programme.
The project was to be completed in December 2000 when the credit was supposed to
close. However, due to some outstanding projects the Credit was extended and
ended on 30 June 2002.
-49 -



The Zambia HSSP was administered through the Planning and Development
Department of the Ministry of Health with a Project Implementation Unit.
2.    Project Aims and Objectives
The Project objectives as outlined in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) No. 13480 were:
*     Support the health reform programme set in motion by the Zambian
Government,
*     Improve health outcomes, particularly in terms of nutritional status, lower
fertility and reduced transmission of HIV
Fulfilling the above project objectives was to contribute to the social sustainability of
the adjustment program and strengthen the human resource base necessary for the
future growth of Zambia.
3.    Project Description
The project consisted of investment and incremental recurrent financing within a
consolidated health reform program prepared by the Government and agreed with a
core group of donors. The IDA credit was structured to fit with the national health
reform program, financing each of the three national budgets (policy development,
investment and recurrent) based on annual agreements.
The project was designed as an integrated sector support project. This approach
differed with the traditional investment projects in that instead of the appraisal
process focusing on planning the specific items, the sector support approach
appraisal focused on the nature of the apex institution, with the specific investment
items being identified throughout the project implementation. I
4.    Components:
The project components were as follows:
(i)   Policy Development Support (3% of total project costs)
This included support for national development and operational research to
help refine the basic policy framework, and adapt strategies to the Zambian
context through phased testing of delivery systems, operations research and
studies.
This was being funded on the basis of (1) testing new approaches, (2)
innovation, (3) limited time frame, and (4) utility for learning from experience.
Each year, the HRIT was to present plans for the following year as part of its
discussions with donors on the budget for the following year.
(ii)  Investment Program Support (96% of total project costs)
This investment programme support (95%), and incremental recurrent budget
support (1%) were to support Districts in the implementation of the health
reforms through their service delivery, for both capital investment costs, such
as civil works, training and logistics equipment and recurrent costs including
supplies, drugs maintenance and logistics. The latter support was to be
- 50 -



provided on a sliding scale, i.e. with proportional increases in the Zambian
contributions over the duration of the project.
(iii)  External Monitoring and Evaluation (1% of total project costs)
This included support for monitoring progress attained through the Health
Reforms and evaluation through beneficiary assessments, auditing and
quality control.
5.    Expected Outputs
The short run outputs were those immediately related to the Health Reforms. These
included the following:
*    Ensure visible improvements at the health centre and district hospital levels
including reliable drug supply, basic rehabilitation of facilities, formation of
local neighbourhood committees, and establishment of reliable out reach
activities;
*    Ensure breathing space for districts to implement their priority programs
instead of a continued emphasis on planning and reporting;
*    Confirm District Health Management Team (DHMT) members quickly and
establish district health boards;
*    Re-deploy staff into key managerial positions in highly visible areas such as the
major urban centres;
*    Reformulate and complete final drafting of health financing policy and clarify
existing guidelines to ensure equity of access and rational use of the referral
chain;
*    Finalise and introduce tool kits and implement training programs in their
support;
*    Strengthen monitoring systems for the eight critical output indicators;
*    Develop uniform accounting, disbursement and reporting formats for inputs to
districts;
*    Establish emergency program for improving incentives for performance while
longer run program is being developed; and
*    Strengthen involvement of regional offices in technical and management
support to districts.
6.    Output by Components
(i)   Policy Development
During the implementation of the HSSP, a total of 29 health policy and
legislative areas had been initiated or conceptualised: 14 were still at
conceptual or draft stage, 11 had been completed and were awaiting
submission to or approval of Cabinet and 4 had been approved and were
being implemented (see annex for policy status table).
There were also a number of de facto policies embodied in the National
Strategic Plans (2001-2005), the National Health Services Act and other official
documents. Though not referred to as policies in the formal sense, the
contents of such documents have policy significance and are shaping events in
the health sector. This type of policy does not, however, form part of this
-51 -



report.
It is also worth mentioning that implementation of some draft policies (e.g.
cost-sharing and integrated reproductive health) had gone ahead of the actual
policy formulation and approval. In such cases, policy development has been
able to benefit from insights gained through actual (field) experience.
It should however, be noted that the 3% portion of the Credit intended for
policy development was applied together with funds from the Government
and other Co-operating Partners.
(ii)  Investment And Development
a. Rehabilitation of Infrastructure
This investment program included an infrastructure component comprising
the following two objectives:
*   Rehabilitation and extension of existing Rural Health Centres (RHC's) to
enable them support the delivery of the RHC package of health services;
and
*   Creating additional bed - capacity at Urban Health Centres in Lusaka to
reduce the pressure on hospital bed space
The rehabilitation and extension of the health facilities was divided into the
following phases:
During the implementation of the HSSP, only the pilot phase and phase 1B
were done.
(iii) Purchase Of Drugs, Equipment And Other Supplies
To improve the delivery of quality medical services throughout the country,
in addition to the procurement of works, the HSSP facilitated the purchase of
bulk essential pharmaceuticals and other supplies and also undertook to
equip the rehabilitated facilities with equipment such as laboratory
equipment, diagnostic and imaging equipment and materials. Other
equipment included vehicles and office furniture and equipment for the
central level.
(iv) External Monitoring and Evaluation
The evaluation under the HSSP that was done was mainly the annual financial
audit as per the requirements of the Credit Agreement
7.    Costs And Financing
The two tables below indicate the HSSP expenditure by component and by category
respectively. The total expenditure was only about 62% of the Credit value.
8.    Major Factors Affecting Implementation
On component for rehabilitation and extension of health facilities, major factors which
affected implementation were the following:
*   The contractor given 6 out of 10 no rhc did not seem to have capacity to perform
- 52-



and ended up giving into liquidation before attending to snags. In future at
evaluation more weight/ emphasis should be put on technical capacity rather
than pricing.
*   Separation the contracts for civil works and solar installation for some of the
facilities. The solar part was tendered separately which went through several
back and forth communication between the Bank and GRZ until it was finally
cancelled. This resulted in 7RHCs not being operational at the close of the
Project.
*   In phase 1B, out of the planned 53No. RHCs, only 29No. RHCs were done. For
the 15no. RHC - Southern Province and Eastern Provinces under the
supervision of Lisulo and Bwalya, the progress in the implementation initially
was good. However, there was a discrepancy between the Bill of quantities and
drawings. As a way of harmonising, the Ministry decided that the consultant
would issue Architects instructions. This approach has had financial
implications and resulted a lot of cost over runs above the contract sums.
*   For 6 no RHCs - Luapula and Northern Provinces under the supervision of
Copperbelt University as in (a) above, there was a discrepancy between the Bill
of quantities and drawings. As a way of harmonising, the Ministry decided that
the consultant would issue Architects instructions. This approach has had
financial implications and resulted a lot of cost over runs above the contract
sums.
*   For RHCs under the supervision of Lisulo and Bwalya, the Consultant
suspended services for almost a year because it took one year for World Bank to
respond to the request to harmonise the contract period for supervision and
construction.
*   For 18No. RHC -- North-Western, Northern and Copperbelt Provinces under
Copperbelt University, all the documents were cleared by the Bank but "no
objection" was because of the suspension of disbursements of funds to the
project.
On component for the purchase of drugs, equipment and other supplies, the major
factors that affected implementation were:
*   Lengthened procurement process due to back and forth communication on each
stage of the procurement process and this resulted in late issuance of "no
objections" by the Bank. Mainly this was due to the high tur-over of staff on the
Project.
9.    Bank and Borrower Performance
a)    The World Bank
On the performance of the Bank during the implementation of the HSSP, the
Government made the following observations:
*   There were regular supervision missions initially but later during the
implementation of the HSSP, these supervision missions turned into more of
audit missions for fault-finding as the relationship between the Ministry and the
Bank became rocky.
*   The Task Managers from the World Bank changed three times. This was
- 53 -



considered as high turnover because follow up was difficult because of loss of
institutional memory of the project and the shift in project management
direction. This affected the momentum of the implementation of the Project.
*   There was very little presence of a dedicated health sector specialist from the
Bank Country office. The situation worsened as the project came to closing. This
resulted in deepening of the information gap on what improvements were
happening on the ground in the health sector such as the progress made in the
SWAp arrangements and also consultation, even on simple issues, having to be
done from Washington.
*    There were delays in processing of payments, issuance of "no objections" and in
responding to general correspondence especially when the relationship between
the Bank and the Ministry became rocky. Some of these delays especially in
payments with financial implications resulted in contractors for civil works
claiming interest on delayed payments as per contract terms.
*    There were delays in reviewing civil documents which resulted in lengthened
period of time between technical surveys - 1996 and actual construction 1998 (3
years). The impact was that there was further deterioration of structures which
was not covered in the initial bill of quantities. It was only envisaged during the
time of construction.
b)    Borrower's Performance
On its own performance during the implementation of the HSSP, the Government
made the following observations:
*    The Project Managers in the PIU from the Government changed three times.
This was considered as high turnover because follow up was difficult because
of loss of institutional memory of the project and the shift in project
management direction. This affected the momentum of the implementation of
the Project
*    On the rehabilitation of the health facilities, the pilot phase was supposed to be
evaluated and used for the next phases. However, this was not done, so the
same mistakes made in the pilot phase were repeated in phase 1A and 1B. some
of the facilities in the pilot phase were completed almost at the same time as the
other phases
10.   Lessons Learnt From The HSSP Experience
*     Shift from a sector programme to a traditional project
The HSSP unceremoniously changed from the design sector programme to a
traditional Bank project As a result a lot decisions and expenditure made in the initial
stages of the Project were considered ineligible afterwards. It was too early for both
the Ministry and the World Bank to carry out a sector programme in the health sector
as the health reform programme was still at the initial stages.
a     Monitoring Parameters
It is difficult to measure in objective and quantifiable terms the successes and failure
of the HSSP. This is largely because there were no baseline indicators set at the on-set
for monitoring progress. This could be attributed to the fact that the HSSP was one of
- 54 -



the first Swap programmes.
In-Country Bank Presence
Considering the magnitude of the HSSP, it is surprising that the Bank chose to not to
have a dedicated health sector specialist at the country office. This could have
overcome the other shortcomings on the Borrowers part, particularly those related to
in-house capacity.
Strengthening and Maintaining in-house Capacity
The implementation of the HSSP revealed lack of familiarity with the World Bank
tendering and financial procedures. This was more so with the high staff turnover.
There will be need in the future to ensure that staff engaged to manage World Bank
programmes are trained in the Bank tendering, financial rules and procedures.
Communication Channels
Several times during the implementation of the various components of the Project, it
became evident that the communication process was made more and more
bureaucratic where communication started flowing between the Country Director
and the Ministers of Finance and Health. This resulted in lengthy communication
process and some technical and routine matters were communicated through
non-technical executives where such matters took on political undertones that at
times resulted in antagonistic postures between the Bank and the Ministry. This
particularly took a turn for the worse during the period 1998 to 2000, and through the
HSSP Extension deadline of 30 June 2002.
Broad Participation of Stakeholders
During its implementation, the HSSP was largely run as a Ministry of Health project
with little in-put or participation from major stakeholders such as the Central Board
of Health.
Absence of Clear Project Management Structure
From the project inception in 1996, the HSSP had an integrated management
structure. As the project progressed, there was unclear management structure
especially above the PIU where it was not clear whether the PIU was a stand alone
structure or was infused in the Ministry structure.
Government's Recommendation For Future Collaboration With The World Bank.
The current National Health Strategic Plan is a further step towards the sector-wide
(SWAp) for health, building on existing poling arrangements. Proposed management
and financial mechanisms should build on the existing mechanisms and support a
joint and donor effort and building on the Memorandum of Understanding signed by
almost all Co-operating Partners including the World Bank.
The Government would like to see the future Bank financed support in the health
sector contribute to the development of a more comprehensive sector wide approach
with a balance between health systems development and the achievement of health
outcome improvements.
- 55 -






MAP SECTION






Z2A4      M      B I A                         ,         -                7 -                   T A N Z A N I A N
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bI AToBMbeyo
TRUNK AND MAIN ROADS  RIVERS
RAILROADS            PROINCE BOUNDARIES
a SELECTED CITIES      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
o PROVINCE CAPITALS
* NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                      0 O     T
tM a~~~~DEM. REP. OF CONGO7 AI
A   N  0   >W8 Lhmu                                                                                          Z  I M B A  B  W E | ' 5;\ J <8$ '
K.16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
D.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
NzA M I B I A  MI                 Jn r/n tha~~~~~~, mo b nd  Im ro, Gro., >-SOUTH AFRICA /-]c A 
-  -  rmy..dgen o qp f nylebr. or  1omy e nc;,< r1 s,  baunda'A,             rW A
\t , BOTSWANAE , _ ___ orroi - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OZ                              f   o  ,  W .__ __ p V__  _  









I 0 . L. -  )1ll
ReporA No.:       24938
Type:    (CR



