Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13480-ZA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAMBIA
HEALTE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
OCTOBER 14, 1994
Human Resources Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
August 1994
US$1.00 = K 700
K100 = US $0.14
FISCAL YEARS
IDA Fiscal Year = July 1 - June 30
Government Fiscal year = January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS                Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
BHA                 "Better Health in Africa" (World Bank document)
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CSO                 Central Statistics Office
DANIDA              Danish Intemational Development Agency
DHB                 District Health Board
DHMT                District Health Management Team
DHS                 Demographic and Health Survey
EC                  European Community
EPI                 Expanded Program of Immunization
FP                  Family Planning
GRZ                 Government of the Republic of Zambia
HMIS                Health Management Information System
HRD                 Human Resource Development
HRIT                Health Reforms Implementation Team
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IDA                 International Development Association
IEC                 Information, Education and Communication
LCB                 Local Competitive Bidding
MCH                 Mother and Child Health care
MoH                 Ministry of Health
MSL                 Medical Stores Limited
NFA                 Not Financed by the Association (IDA)
NFNC                National Food and Nutrition Commission
NGO                 Non-Governmental Organization
ODA                 British Overseas Development Administration
PMU                 Planning and Management Unit, Ministry of Health
PPF                 Project Preparation Facilities
RHC                 Rural Health Center
SIDA                Swedish International Development Agency
SOE                 Statement of Expenses
STI                 Sexually-Transmitted Infections
TFR                 Total Fertility Rate
UHC                 Urban Health Center
UNICEF              United Nations Children's Fund
WDR                 World Development Report (World Bank document)
WHO                 World Health Organization
ZDHS                Zarnbia Demographic and Health Survey



i
ZAMBIA
HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BoRRowER:                 The Republic of Zambia
IMPLmENTING AGENCY:    Ministry of Health
BENEFICiARY:              Not applicable
POVERTY:                  Not applicable
AMOUNT:                   SDR 38.7 million (US$56 million equivalent)
TERMS:                    Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
COMMTMENT FEE:            0.50 percent on undisbursed balances beginning 60 days after
signing less any waiver
FINANCING PLAN:           See para. 3.3
NET PRESENT VALUE: Not applicable. Project design based on cost-effectiveness
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT: 13480-ZA






ii
ZAMBIA
HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT'
Table of Contents
Title                                                                                                                       Page
CREDIT  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY    ................................    i
1. INTRODUCTION AND HEALTH SECTOR ISSUES ...................... 1
A. Introduction   ...........................................  1
B. Health Reform   .......................................... 4
B.1    The Basis for Reforms  .............................. 5
B.2    Planning and Implementing Reform: the Strategic Plan  ...                                 ....... 6
B.3    Zambian Packages of Care: Standards and Outputs   ............ 7
B.4    What has Changed so Far?   ..........................  10
C.  Donor Coordination                       .....................................   18
II. PROPOSED  PROJECT                        ..................                     ......................  19
A.  Project Objectives  ......................................  19
B.  Project Description    .....................................   19
C.  Health Reform  Implementation Program   1995-98  ...................  21
D.  Project Implementation: Process and Implementation Agencies   ....                                     ......  28
E.  Project Sustainability   ....................................  30
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENTS   .......................................  34
A. Costs . ............................................... 34
B. Financing .                ........................................... 34
C. Procurement  ..........................................  36
D. Disbursements .                   ......................................... 38
E. Accounts and Audit ......................................  39
IV.  PROJECT  BENEFITS  AND  RISKS   ............................... 41
A. Project Benefits  .........................................  41
B. Project Risks  ..........................................  41
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....                                                      ................... 43
A. Conditions   .........                  .       ..................................  43
B.  Other Agreements   ......................................  43
C.  Recommendations   ......................................  43
The IDA preparation team was led by Steen Jorgensen and Reiko Niimi. Jean-Louis Lamboray was the
principal health advisor; other preparation team members include: Julie McLaughlin, Norbert Mugwagwa,
Jayshree Balachander, and Leo Sinke. The peer reviewers are Willy de Geyndt and Malonga Miatudila;
the lead advisor is Eugene Boostrom. The Division Chief, Country Operations Manager, and Department
Director are Roger Grawe, Phyllis Pomerantz and Katherine Marshall, respectively.



Figures:
Figure I Conceptual Framework for the Strategic Plan ........................ 6
Figure 2 The Zambian Package of Care at the Health Center Level.                    8
Figure 3 Projections of Zambian expenditures compared to BHA numbers ($/Capita) . . . . 32
Text Boxes:
I Kerosene and EPI in Mumbwa District.                                              2
2 The Zambian Cadillac.                                                             2
3 Why an Integrated Package? .9
4 The Planner and the TA .19
5 Financing Plan .34
6 Benefits .                                                                       41
Tables:
Table I Comparative Health Performance.                                             3
Table 2 The New System is Sustainable: Evidence from Better Health in Africa (BHA) . . 31
Table 3 Financing Plan (US$million) 1995-1998 .35
Table 4 Procurement Arrangements (US$ million) .36
Table 5 Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit (US$ million) ..... .  .  .  .   38
Table 6 Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit (US$ Million) .39
Annexes:
Annex 1 Zambia Basic Data and Leading Health Concerns .44
Annex 2 Ministry of Health, New HQ Organizational Chart .46
Annex 3 Draft First Year Implementation Plan .47
Annex 4 Proposed Program for Annual Consultations .55
Annex 5 Joint Donor Statement .56
Annex 6 Supervision Schedule .60
Annex 7 Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File .62



ZAMBIA
HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT
I. INTRODUCTION AND HEALTH SECTOR ISSUES
A. INTRODUCTION
1.1    Zambia, one of the more prosperous countries in Africa at independence in 1964, used
its wealth to, among other things, substantially increase its health infrastructure. In general,
the Government used its international borrowing capacity to support levels of consumption in
the public sector that proved unproductive and unsustainable, as its wealth -- dependent on
international copper prices- declined. The country now suffers from excessive public sector
dominance, a decline of nearly 50% in per capita incomes since 1975, and a dramatic increase
in poverty. Yet, commitment to adjustment and reform was not tenable until November 1991,
when a new Government was elected on a platform of change and policy reform. The
rehabilitation and reform of social service delivery is a key area of concern in Zambia's
adjustment program and in the Government's overall development strategy, as stated in the
Policy Framework Paper.
1.2    The health sector has not been able to adequately respond to increasing demand for
basic health care services to help households address problems of illness and disease. The
people of Zambia are experiencing disease and death at new record levels: infant mortality
rates are rising instead of declining; the prevalence of stunting and wasting are higher than
average for Sub-Saharan Africa, and about 15 times higher than in countries with developed
market economies; vaccination rates for children have been falling to an overall low of 54.8%
(1993); and increased vulnerability to water-borne and other infectious diseases, caused
primarily by declining access to safe water and sanitationA', is reflected in annual cholera epi-
demics. Yet, households only get inadequate and uneven support from the existing health care
system. Funding cutbacks in all social sectors, during the economic crisis of the 1980s, led to
severe dilapidation of existing health infrastructure and inappropriate capital investments.
Access to health facilities and utilization of health care, the quality of services, and the
availability of drugs and supplies vary widely between poor and non-poor areas, and between
rural and urban areas. Health staff are concentrated in the hospitals of urban areas (80
percent of all physicians work along the line of rail), while health facilities in rural areas -- to
serve 58% of the Zambian population -- are both understaffed and have a higher proportion of
untrained staff. People living in peri-urban areas may live within 15 km of a health facility,
but high indirect costs -- such as transport and waiting time -- discourage their use except in
dire emergencies.
1.3    Zambia can afford better health care. The Ministry of Health recognizes that its
limited resources can be better allocated, and it is committed to reforming the health care
system to expand effective coverage with a national package of good quality, essential health
care services. The main issue now confronting the Zambian health sector is how to unleash
existing capacity that has been hamstrung by major allocative and technical inefficiencies
throughout the existing system. Currently, there is heavy dependence upon hospital care;
1 see National Environmental Action Plan', Government of Zambia, Jun 30, 1994.



- 2 -
health centers are equipped to provide  1 Kerosene and EPI in Mumbwa District
only basic services, and chronic
shortages of staff and supplies at this  In 1990, Mumbwa district had fully immunized
level have caused individuals seeking  75%  of its children, under the nation-wide EPI
care to consistently by-pass this level --   effort. In 1991, they immunized only about 40%.
receiving basic curative care at less cost-   Now the proportion shows signs of falling even
effective levels of the system. Financing   further. Excessively centralized management ex-
policies have traditionally encouraged  plains most of the decline: According to the dis-
inefficient health care, giving budget  trict health management team, when refrigerators
priority to referral hospitals, which are    in most health facilities ran out of kerosene (paraf-
less cost-effective than health centers as   fin), the provincial offices failed to send them
providers of most essential services.  more fuel. Two gas stations -- Total and Texaco--
Community outreach activities, including  sell kerosene in Mumbwa district, but the health
most public health services, were only    staff only have government chits to exchange for
financed through specially-funded      fuel at a (non-existent) BP station. Health staff
projects, not as part of government    went specially to Lusaka to request that the
services. Health care services were    Ministry of Health send one of its fuel trucks to
provided free of charge until 1989,    resupply the health facilities; all were gone on
providing no discouragement for        other assignments.  Too bad for Mumbwa's
inappropriate utilization of services.  children, who will not get vaccinated because the
Evidence in Box 1 illustrates how the  refrigerator cannot be run on BP kerosene!
health system has been undermining
itself by letting existing resources and  [-excerpt, World Bank Aide Memoire, 12/92]
capacity go to waste. Indeed, resources
are considerable: for a population of 8
million Zambia spends about $18 per capita in combined government and donor financing.
The 1993 World Development Report shows that Zambia is amnong those countries whose
health outcomes are far lower than what could be expected, given its level of spending on
health. Despite the availability of resources, the quality of care offered by this system has not
been responsive to Zambian health care needs.
1.4    Zambian citizens expect the recent price hikes for health care to be accompanied by
improvements in service quality. As
with all government spending in
social sectors, the health sector    2 The Zambian Cadillac
suffered severe cutbacks in funding  The Health system in Zambia can be likened to a
during the economic crisis of the    Cadillac which was maintained by a relatively
1980s. With the realization that free   wealthy family for years. The family's economic
medical services were no longer      situation has changed, and it can no longer afford to
affordable, in 1987, the Government   maintain this expensive vehicle without seeking
officially authorized the charging of    assistance from friends and relatives, to help fuel,
user fees at Lusaka's University    repair and maintain the gas-guzzling vehicle.
Teaching Hospital. By the end of
1992, the practice of charging fees    The Ministry of Health has initiated the process of
had spread to all hospitals and health   designing and constructing a more affordable and
centers. User fees and other local   efficient vehicle that can better meet the family's
revenue generating measures have led   needs. Cooperating partners are asked to help them
to a visible improvement in some     realize their vision of a new Zamnbian health vehicle:
hospitals (e.g., Livingstone General    to try out the parts and road-test it.
Hospital), although user fees only



- 3 -
cover a small proportion of      Table I Comparative Health Performance
total costs. These measures
have not been enough, how-                  GNP/   IMR    Life Ex-  Mal-          TFR
ever, to meet the population's               -               pectancy  nutrtion
increasing demands for health    Zambia    420       113        56        25      6 5
care services, nor to prevent    Kenya      340      51         59         18     5.4
the deterioration of much of     Benin      380      88         46        35      6.3
the existing infrastructure and  Togo       410      86         55        24      6.4
equipment.                       Vietnam    240      37         64                3.8
China      370      35         71        21      2.5
1.5    The Ministry of
Health's commitment to re-       IMR: infant mortality rate
form the health system is both   Malnutrition: measured by weight for age
..   ..            ~~~~~~TFR: total fertility rate
an explicit recognition that
continuous repair of the cur-    Source: 1994 State of the World's Children, UNICEF,
rent "Cadillac" system is        respective DHS surveys; World Development Report'1994.
inefficient and inappropriate
for Zambia (see box 2), and a
reflection of their intent to develop a more affordable and efficient health system which will
better respond to Zambia's health needs. To enable Zambian resources to maintain and sus-
tain this new vehicle in the medium term, donor support will be needed to first develop and
implement the plans for reform, that is to transform the existing health service system to fit
with the new policies.
1.6    Over the last decade, around 6% of total government expenditures and 2.4% of the
GDP have been allocated to the health sector, although annual MoH expenditures, at constant
1984 Kwacha, declined from K 159.1 million in 1982 to K 64.5 million in 1989 - a reduction
of 59%. Since then, allocations to health have increased, peaking at 13% of the budget in
1994. Despite these fluctuations, Zambia has had the resources to warrant great gains in
health performance; yet countries with less resources have achieved higher life expectancy and
substantially lower infant mortality rates (see Table 1). Comparison of available resources to
health performance indicators suggests that Zambian resources could be more effectively
channeled to enable health services to contribute to the achievement of greater health gains.
1.7    Zambian commitment to reform the health system was strongly manifested in late
1991, when the national Health Policy published the decision to decentralize management of
health services to the district level. The national health strategy of the Government aims to
provide Zambians with "equity of access to cost-effective quality health care as close to the
family as possible" by ensuring coverage with a national package of essential health services.
The Government-has assumed the responsibility for ensuring these basic human rights.
1.8    The Health Reforms are an initiative to redefine and reorganize the Zambian health
care system, in order to operationalize the Alma Ata primary health care principles and to
respond more effectively to today's health needs. They are predicated on the belief that Zam-
bian health status can be significantly improved with existing resources -- by addressing
structural impediments, such as excessive centralization, fragmented implementation capacity,
shortage of qualified personnel, poor regional distribution of staff, and chronic budget short-
falls. Government has identified the need for reform in the areas of management and accoun-
tability, community participation, public/ private partnerships, and human resource develop-
ment. This has opened the door to (re)examining what health care is provided, how it is



- 4 -
delivered (types of services, access, organization), what inputs are used to deliver it
(efficiency), and new possibilities in terms of financing (identifying, mobilizing, and more
effectively allocating resources for health care).
1.9   In all of these areas, the district is the focal point, for it is here that the health service
system and communities can most effectively interact. Evidence for this comes from regional
experiences, as cited in Better Health in Africa and the 1993 World Development Report, as
well as from in-country experience during the last decade, acquired in part with donor
assistance. Strengthening the management of health services at and within the district is
regarded as the crux of the Health Reforms: successful implementation of any nation-wide
health program depends on the district's effectiveness.
B. HEALTH REFORM
'An anthropologist documented the Zulu healers' method of proving success
with cases of epilepsy: to have the patient dive into a river known to be
infested with crocodiles and lethal snakes completely nude, early on a morning
during the coldest part of the year, and hold his breath as long as possible. If
he came up alive, he would be cured of epilepsy. There are no records to
show how many survived the ritual to tell the story!
We in Zambia are trying to avoid a Zulu healer's tragedy of the past. We all
need a real success story in Health Reform, consistent with a vision of health
that moves away from orthodoxy... or more of the same thing. Work with us
to provide environments that are conducive to health; help our people learn
the art of being well; and provide a basic package of health care for all. We
want to be able to spend less on drugs, less on expensive technology; less on
super- specialists with long credentials whose value is only acknowledged by
editors of professional journals. We want cost-effective, quality-assured health,
centered around the needs and resource possibilities of the family. This vision
we have defined. This vision we share with you. This vision, we learn, is now
being shared by many the world over. Somewhere, it must succeed. That place
is here...
You cannot walk away from Zambia's reform effort saying, 'We helped
Zambia dive into the river of comprehensive Health Reforms... and those chaps
were courageous, but Zambia's infant mortality rate has become worse; its
infrastructure remains unfixed; its drug supplies still inadequate; its epidemics
uncontrolled, etc. " There is no taxpayer in Europe, Japan, America or
member country of multilateral agencies who wants to hear that kind of
'success' story. Our fate is your fate too; we are in this boat together. We
have gone too far together not to share in the common cause for real success -
- and not one measured by the volume of documents we collectively
produce... "
[-Hon. Deputy Minister, Dr. Katele Kalumba - speech at MoH "Appraisal Workshop," 4/94]



-5 -
B. 1 The Basis for Reforms
1.10   The National Health Policies and Strategies document of 1991 articulates the Zambian
Government's vision of a successful health system that is radical in its move away from exces-
sive centralization to a decentralized district focus. Underlying these reforms is the desire to
build effective leadership, accountabilitv and partnership. These principles are an integral part
of a health reform process that continues to be one of national analysis and debate, to identify
solutions instead of scapegoats. The outcomes of this process are expected to be better quality
care and better use of existing resources in infrastructure, personnel, equipment, drugs, and
information.
1.11   Leadership: The MoH has recognized the vacuum created by depending on donors to
provide support for primary health care services during the past 15 years. Numerous national
programs, created with donor assistance, resulted overall in fragmented management and
delivery of basic health services (such as a limited tuberculosis treatment program, or vaccina-
tions for children which are offered on different days from ante-natal care and family planning
services) without a coherent national health strategy. Under the reform process, the central
Ministry is earning the leadership role in the health sector, by working with donors and
national programs in a more coordinated fashion -- and moving away from direct imple-
mentation of programs, for which they have little capacity and too much distance. District
Health Management Teams are being trained and supported to organize and provide local
health services that are of good quality and responsive to real needs of the surrounding
communities.
1.12   Accountability: To meet the real health needs of rural and peri-urban populations
requires that Health Reforms correct skewed management incentives, staffing patterns and
utilization rates. The Ministry of Health's pattern of financial and staffing allocations reflects
years of giving priority to high-tech curative care, in response to political and popular
pressure, despite official (but rhetorical) support of primary health care. It is therefore not
surprising that most illnesses treated at Zambian hospitals could have been treated at health
centers, at lower cost and with more continuity and personal attention. The priority that had'
been given to first satisfying central-level supervisors, in the past, is being shifted to a client
focus, by making health care providers accountable to local Health Boards, which represent a
spectrum of the community. The new patterns of accountability are more transparent and
have created a spirit of openness that is conducive to discussing both successes and problems
between staff and managers, and between the MoH and donor partners -- an ambiance that did
not exist before the reforms were undertaken.
1.13   Partnership: Zambian health status could be dramatically improved with the current
amount of available resources, both national and international. In order to provide adequate
and appropriate support to health facilities, new partnerships are being developed between the
center, province, districts, and donors. Instead of working to meet specific project goals and
report to natiornal coordinators, health care providers are now being encouraged to organize
their skills and services to work as a team providing comprehensive health services. Among
the first steps in the health reform process has been the involvement and training of district
health staff as partners instead of subordinates in defining appropriate standards for health care
services and the use of resources. Beyond the Ministry of Health, new relationships are being
explored with private non-profit providers of care, to better serve households by drawing upon
private sector strengths and resources. This spirit of partnership is also shared with donors, in
encouraging them to also discuss new ways of providing assistance in the health sector. It is



- 6 -
clear that decentralization is not a top-down, unilateral exercise, but instead a process in which
all actors are expected to contribute to the strengthening and sustainability of the new health
system. The biggest remaining challenge of the Health Reforms will be to develop the spirit
of partnership between the health system and communities.
B.2 Planning and Implementing Reform: the Strategic Plan
1.14   To ensure visible but affordable improvements in health care utilization and quality is
the overriding goal of Zambia's health reform process. The existing system has been
incapable of meeting these national objectives. The Government recognized that a new frame-
work and modus operandi were needed in order to consolidate their vision, past activities, and
future direction, and to articulate and systematize their previously ad-hoc and intuitive decision
making process. A Strategic Plan has thus been developed by the Ministry of Health, whose
starting point and focus are the production levels of health - a fundamentally different ap-
proach from the traditional top-down planning method. In effect, the Government is designing
a system that furthers national health goals, instead of identifying problems and corresponding
solutions (e.g., retooling selected parts of the car). Furthermore, the process of developing
this design is fully "owned" by Zarnbia, participatory across a wide spectrum of the Ministry
of Health and its outposted staff, and has built Ministry confidence in its own capacity to
"drive the new car".
1.15   Zambia's vision of the new health care system is being fleshed out by answering the
questions: what do.we want? what do we have? what do we need? what can we afford? In a
step-by-step process (see Figure 1), the MoH has:
(a)    undertaken a critical self-assessment of health needs, identifying financial,
physical, human and academic resources, and considering the stakeholders in
the process;
(b)    defined a new set of health system standards - on the basis of equity and
affordability principles - through-packaging cost-effective health care services
for delivery from appropriate levels of the system to support individual and
family health needs;
(c)    identified requisite inputs and management support by level of institution and
its anticipated workload;
Outputu        hPreCs
Obcbvesin
(no)(y)
PRconsider
Figure I  Conceptual FraineworkfortheStrategicPlan
Figure 1      Conceptual Framnework for the Strategic Plan



(d)    estimated consequent costs by types of recurrent and investment costs;
(e)   identified a health financing strategy to cover these costs: deciding which costs
the ministry's budget will cover, what would be willingly, paid for by clients
or private expenditures, and what areas external donors are willing to finance;
and
(f)    committed itself to monitoring the progress of implementation and the impact
of reform on target beneficiaries.
1.16  In this way, the MoH has developed its own set of national health service standards.
The process has both empowered the MoH staff to work with donors and health staff, and
legitimized health reforms still further, as the MoH worked with district medical officers,
regional advisors, hospital administrators, and academics to define appropriate and affordable
packages of care. Qualitative assessments, assumptions and policy decisions have been
documented, and the explicit and detailed nature of the Strategic Plan also provides a
foundation for future policy revisions. During the implementation phase, these standards will
be tested; revisions can be anticipated as districts provide feedback on their appropriateness,
and when there are epidemiological shifts in priority needs.
B.3 Zambian Packages of Care: Standards and Outputs
1.17   "Health is produced within the household, and the health care system can only support
the latter"; this is the Ministry of Health's point of departure for defining new standards of
care. System "outputs" describe desired national norms and technical performance criteria by
common disease conditions and specific population groups (0-11 months, 1-4 years, 5-14
years, 15 and above), quantifying what each level of the health care system is expected to
manage relative to what households can or ought to be able to do. The bulk of the preventive
activities are seen as most effective at the household and community levels, and include: use
of clean water, good hygiene, nutrition, prevention of injuries, prevention of AIDS, and child
spacing.
1.18   The health center has been identified as the key link for households and patients to
contact the health system. Its package of services includes imnunizations for young children,
health education in support of the community package (above), and other outreach activities to
support commnunity health. At this first formal point of interface between the community and
the health system, the client will be screened, diagnosed and either treated with basic curative
care or referred to the general hospital (see Figure 2). Pre- and post natal care for mothers
and children (MCH), family planning counselling and contraceptives, and nutritional
rehabilitation will also be available to households through the health center. The treatment of
chronic illnesses, such as tuberculosis, STIs/AIDS, and respiratory infections are also
included.
1.19   The Zambian health planners, recognize that many patients today bypass the health
center to seek care at hospitals. For health centers to be credible therefore requires an
improvement in their diagnostic and treatment capabilities (such as blood and stool analysis,
minor surgery), as well as improved means of communication with the referral hospital.
These responsibilities for the health center imply expansion in terms of equipment, material,
and staff. Space and infrastructure needs are also being factored into consideration of inputs
required so as to ensure the effective delivery of packages of care.



-8 -
The Zambian Package  if Car at the HROiji Center LeL
(diluutrmbve)
Polyvalent Healtht
Family Healfth   Disease Control     Clnical Care       Management
-Ante-naal care    - Mahla Control     Screening          CHWfrBA
Supeivilo
NulioeVmia'o-nut  _ STD/AIDS         lab(or_ Community
ri                screening                             Mobilizaton
-Family Planning     Home-based care   Treatment          MIS/HIS
-Immunizaton      - ARI                                   Drug S
Youth Sexuality    -CDD                                   M     n
Sdxxc Hoalih    _ Waletr/antation                      Planning
qualty contol
Contac Tradng
GRV/MoH Strategic Plan 894
Figure 2       The Zarnbian Package of Care at the Health Center Level
1.20   With the new focus on health centers, the role of the hospital is also being redefined --
as a facility offering back-up support to the health centers, through interventions that are
required too infrequently for health center staff to maintain competence, or through interven-
tions requiring technology and resources that are unavailable at the health center. The hospital
grounds may also contain an area that functions and is staffed as a health center, to serve the
communities nearby. A limited range of preventive services, such as immunization of
newborns who are delivered at the hospital or those in the pediatric ward, will be available to
in-patients within the hospital, but no outreach to communities is envisioned by hospital staff,
and user fees are being structured to discourage bypassing of the health center.
1.21   The content of each package is influenced by the frequency with which technical in-
terventions are called for, in combination with the skills and resources required to provide that
service. It is expected that the household and conmmunity package together with the services
delivered at the health center and general hospital can meet 98 percent of the district popul-
ation's health care needs. The criteria that the MoH applied in developing these norms were
first based on the relationship between the chosen activities and existing health problems. For
example, given current annual growth rates of 3.2% (that will double the population of 8
million in 23 years), and the large proportion of women and children under 15 years of age in
Zambia's population (70%) who are the major users of health care facilities, resources and
services must be focussed on meeting their needs through children's clinics, ante- and post-
natal services, family planning and vaccination programs. To improve continuity of care, the
placement of beds is being considered within health centers to permit uncomplicated
deliveries. Also, the health center will assume new responsibilities for aggressive contact
tracing to follow up on patients who must complete long treatment courses for chronic



- 9 -
diseases, such as tuberculosis, and will be authorized to administer the necessary medications,
following the hospital's guidance. And although many health center staff claim to see few
AIDS cases today -- either because those patients are going directly to the hospital or because
staff do not recognize the symptoms and cannot test for seropositivity, health centers will have
to assume a greater role in AIDS prevention and (home-based) care, because patients and
hospitals will not be able to cope with the burden by themselves.
1.22   The technical content of the
national package of essential health     3 Why an Integrated Package?
services contains little that health workers
do not already know -- although refresher   First, as people are uncertain about the nature
courses will always be important to keep    of the care they require, it is logical to group
staff abreast of relevant and applicable  procedures to increase the chance of resolving
new research findings and technical      the problem which they present.
improvements. What is new for Zambian
health care providers and managers,      Second, there is growing evidence that single
however, is that these services can be   purpose interventions are effective in reducing
organized and monitored locally - to be  a        particular cause of mortality, but not in
relevant to their own community and      reducing overall mortality.
district needs. Through the defined      Third, by integrating health care activities,
packages of care, health care providers  providers can take the opportunity of each
will provide services that are compre-   contactswian the   t  oprovide    of ean-
hensive in scope and integrated for the  contact with the client to provide less deman-
convenience and benefit of the client and    ded, but needed care, such as immunizations or
the community (see Box 3); for example,   treatment of sexually  transmitted  diseases
preventing future illness while providing  among women.
curative care; advising on good nutrition
practices when providing oral rehydration solution (for diarrhea), and counseling in family
planning and/or contraceptives. The packaging of health care services will bring together
activities that have been under the responsibility of separate and sometimes parallel
administrative structures, by making staff responsible for identifying and providing for health
care needs of their clients, instead of responding primarily to vertical program guidelines.
Managed in this way, health services are more cost-effective than if provided as discrete inter-
ventions. More importantly, individuals with multiple ailments will go home having been
treated not only for their respiratory infections but also for their sexually-transmitted disease.
The integrated package approach will better reduce disability and deaths.
1.23   While the definition of the package has detailed the necessary inputs for effective
delivery (in terms of drugs, staff skills, equipment, and space), it is also constrained by the
availability of resources and overall affordability. Government has assumed responsibility for
financing the services that are public goods (such as chlorination of drinking water or health
education) or those.with positive externalities (such as prevention and treatment of schistoso-
miasis). The national package encompasses IEC (eg. for FP, nutrition, AIDS, hygiene) and
support for some environmental health measures (eg. vector control, water supply, sanitation).
This national definition will provide a standard by which to develop and measure the proposed
activities in district health plans. Information will be channeled to health care providers and
consumers through research, education, and information dissemination.
1.24   By the year 2000, all Zambians with access to a health facility will be able to benefit
from the basic package of care. To provide these packages, the Zambian health system will



- 10 -
be structured to have a health facility within 12 kilometers for 80% of all communities; the
more remote areas will be served by an outreach health post. The health centers will be
staffed by nurses and paramedics with multi-disciplinary training, including management and
IEC skills. They will be supervised each quarter by the district health management team,
either by the latter's visit to the health facility or through a meeting with other health staff
working in the district. While redirecting the main part of public resources toward packages
provided under the purview of the district health boards, the Government will also provide
tertiary health care and allow those who can afford higher cost services to make that choice,
on the principle of individual responsibility for health2'.
B.4 What has Changed so Far? (achievements, issues)
1.25   Health System Management: Strong political and technical commitment from central
government, particularly the MoH, was the necessary catalyst for the accomplishments of
1993-1994. A small Health Reform Implementation Team (HRIT) was set up in 1992, as a
transitional unit to organize the process of internal change. As a project team, it has far
exceeded expectations in its ability to create capacity for implementing Health Reforms, by
working closely with the Planning and Management Unit and drawing in staff from diverse
departments within the MoH, and by working with the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of
Justice to develop new modalities for the health system that are financially and legally
sustainable.
1.26   The major institutional change so far has been the devolution to district (and central
hospital) level of key MoH functions, namely planning, management, service delivery,
resource allocation and supplementary revenue generation. In 1992, the HRIT intended to
phase in reforms by first working with three and then 22 districts, to deconcentrate fiscal
decisions. In subsequent discussions with the World Bank, WHO, UNICEF and DANIDA,
the Government decided to provide some direct budgetary support in all 61 districts so that the
latter could locally plan and implement health activities'. Autonomously managed District
Health Boards (DHB), accountable technically to the MoH and administratively to Local
Government, and Hospital Management Boards (for the three tertiary facilities in Zambia)
have been legally established since 1993. This enables direct transfer of funds from the
Ministry of Finance to districts and tertiary hospitals, where the Boards have been delegated
discretionary fiscal authority - enabling management teams to ensure that service providers
have the timely supplies of fuel, stationery and materials essential to delivery of care,
improved communications and guidance. It is also significant that for the first time, donors
also agreed to provide undesignated support to respond to district priorities, instead of ear-
marking their assistance to specific and partial disease control projects.
1.27   The receipt of funds in each district was also contingent upon district plans developed
by district health personnel and local government, and the availability of a minimum
accounting capability within the district health management team (DHMT). Although not all
3'  K. Kalumba, E Nangawe, L Muuka-Kalunba, V. Musowe. 'Beyond Our Own Interests: Zambia's Health
System Reform Agenda into the Next Century." Paper presented to WHO conference on Health Reform,
Geneva, December 1993.
4t This support differed significandiy from traditional modes of assistance: the donors had not only agreed to
provide recurrent cost support; districts would not necessarily know the specific source of their funds, and
disbursements would be accounted for under one national system.



- 11 -
61 districts possessed the same resources and capacity, all were given an equal opportunity to
carry out rapid assessments of their respective coverage areas (districts) to identify and priori-
tize problems. Teams of facilitators and trainers fanned out to all provinces throughout 1993,
in an effort to bring all districts up to speed.
1.28   The attributions of the provincial level also change substantially under the health
reforms. Provincial medical officers, previously the chief administrator of local funds,
become regional health (technical) advisors and facilitators with incentives to cooperate with
district and central staff. Now considered an extension of the central level, the provincial
teams are called upon to provide districts with a pool of expertise in health planning and
management, human resource development, technical support for clinical services and basic
health programs, logistics, and administration. Routine information collection, monitoring,
analysis, and feedback from these levels to the districts will help to strengthen practices for
good quality health care.
1.29   The national level is being restructured to provide policy guidance and administrative
support to the periphery; sub-divisions within the Ministry (organized around vertical
programs and donor inputs, such as MCH or Essential Drugs, until now) are being
encouraged to break out of their "fiefdoms" to interact and coordinate with other departments
in planning their support activities to districts, especially as donors are asked to support the
Strategic Plan instead of targeted interventions. As a typical example, the National Food and
Nutrition Commission (NFNC) - that had worked in isolation, undertaken only those few
activities with donor support, and languished from a lack of leadership, morale and strategic
focus - is now being recognized as the 'program manager' at the central level for combating
Zambia's nutrition problems. The nutrition unit of the MoH was dissolved and merged with
the NFNC, as part of the reform process; the latter is now represented in the Capacity
Building Team and is actively involved in the training and orientation of districts. The
Ministry has determined that specific national objectives -- particularly conceming nutrition,
family planning, and AIDS- will be best attained by strengthening the entire Zambian health
care system, as proposed in the reforms, and ensuring the effective use of an integrated
package of care by every household.
1.30   The Ministry of Health has few full-time health planners. The Planning and
Management Unit has worked closely with the Health Reform Implementation Team,
however, to bring a wide range of doctors, nurses, and para-professionals into the reform
decision-making process. The unit has also made extensive use of resident expatriate
professionals, particularly through Netherlands, SIDA, UNICEF, and WHO, to complement
its members' own skills, and has realized through this process that future skills at the central
ministry must go beyond the traditional medical doctor to include planners, economists, archi-
tects and nurses, who can contribute non-medical and gender-sensitive perspectives to policy
decisions in the workplace, and to the changing relationship between the service provider and
user. A supportive MoH will also require capacity to help draft legislation to support the
Health Reforms.
1.31   Human Resource Development and Management: The process of reorganizing
health services to be decentralized and transparent in their accountability requires substantial
changes in current human resource policies and management systems. Technical support and
donor funds have already begun to assist the MoH to reformulate human resource policies
through establishment of an HRD Policy and Planning Unit. Two people have been appointed
to develop a human resource information system, and they are starting by surveying the



- 12 -
number and location of staff currently employed by MoH; over 400 doctors and some 10,000
other health staff are currently estimated to be employed by the MoH.
1.32   A study of terms and conditions of service has also been launched by a local consul-
tant, to start addressing the chronic staff shortages among Zambia's public and private health
care providers. The national Schools of Medicine, Health Services and Nursing have been
training doctors, clinical officers and other health personnel since 1973. Poor remuneration
and conditions of service for government health personnel (along with others in the public
service) have made it difficult, however, to recruit and retain staff, who can find better-paid
employment in neighboring countries and the private sector. Those who are employed in the
Zambian public sector move to places where they can supplement their income through extra
jobs, find educational opportunities for their families, and abandon or ignore rural areas where
such opportunities or attractions do not exist. This situation has led to the employment of
expatriate doctors (75% of total physicians) - using resources which could be spent elsewhere
in the sector. The MoH is considering ways of creating more attractive working conditions in
rural areas, through supplementary salary allowances, housing, and improved communications.
Current civil service regulations -- that allow working couples to stay together and retain jobs
and salary, regardless of location -- are being reconsidered to discourage over-staffing in
urban areas and simultaneous under-staffing in rural areas. Although the conditions of civil
service for health staff cannot be improved in isolation from the rest of the civil service,
health institutions that have generated sufficient medical fees have awarded incentive bonuses
to hospital staff. Transport and housing are also being provided to health personnel,
particularly in geographic areas that are difficult to staff.
1.33   Furthermore, to prepare district health personnel for increased autonomy and respon-
sibilities, many capacity-building activities have been underway since 1992. District Health
Management Teams received training in planning, management, financing, and problem-
solving methods, while specialized training was given in accounting to hospital administrators.
With support from DANIDA, ODA, UNICEF, SIDA, and the Netherlands, the MoH
embarked upon an ambitious program of imparting management skills to staff in all districts in
early 1993. A private accounting firm was engaged to train at least one staff member from
each district in a new set of national accounting and monitoring procedures. Upon satisfactory
completion of this accounting course, and development of a six-month district activity plan,
districts were granted funds to cover a portion of their recurrent operating and maintenance
costs. Each district now has an officer trained in the required accounting and reporting proce-
dures, and the MoH recognizes the need to "provide incentives for accountability" or "raise
the status" of local staff who are expected to ensure correct accounting.
1.34   Further training is being planned to develop the capacity of district and hospital
management boards to plan, deploy and manage their human resources through personnel
officers. New job descriptions, performance appraisal systems, a user-friendly personnel
record system, and a management development system all for district health personnel are
being planned for implementation in the medium-term strategy.
1.35    Rehabilitation of Infrastructure: Critical rehabilitation of central hospitals, pro-
vincial hospitals, and district hospitals has been initiated with Government funds. The consi-
derable investment made in Zambian health facilities - numbering 1007 health centers and 100
hospitals of varying sizes - requires a substantial increase in funds to prevent further dete-
rioration; however, renovation must be to sustainable and appropriate standards. New design
standards for facilities are being developed as part of the Strategic Plan. The HRIT has been



- 13 -
working on the definition of space requirements for effective delivery of the package of care
by each level of the system. In this way, they will be able to apply politically and technically
accepted criteria in identifying the health facilities and offices requiring priority attention
during project implementation. At the same time, by decentralizing the allocation and use of
their financial resources, district health management teams and hospital administrations have
already started to address some of the poor hygienic and working conditions that have
negatively affected staff morale, motivation, and standards of service in the past.
1.36   New capital investment will also have to be envisioned, to respond to the shifts and
growth in population to urban (mainly slum) areas, where almost 50% of the population is
now concentrated and where population growth is most rapid. The effectiveness of the MoH
has also been impaired by the fact that the central Ministry services are dispersed among six
rented buildings that are poorly maintained. Crowded working conditions are exacerbated by
the difficulties of communication between the various buildings for lack of telephones, and the
distances between ministry buildings hampers efficiency. To call a planning meeting requires
a major logistical effort. Investments will also be needed at this level to enable senior health
managers to respond more efficiently to ongoing concerns; these will involve telecommuni-
cations improvements and facilities that physically unify the central ministry.
1.37   Health Information System (HIS): The development of the Strategic Plan has
illustrated the relevance of data collection and analysis to the MoH. The detailed definition of
the national package of essential health care, and the packaging of these services for delivery,
has led to the creation of a database that can be used to rapidly assess and respond to new
assumptions and to provide and evaluate new scenarios. This database will be used in the
implementation of the Strategic Plan, and resources are being allocated for its maintenance in
the medium term.
1.38   Development of local information systems has been initiated through the inclusion of
monitoring indicators within district health plans. District Health Management Teams are
starting to ask the central level for support in strengthening their capacity for local data
analysis, as they realize the need for information to inform district policy and management
decisions. This reverses the situation in which health workers in districts collected enormous
amounts of data that had no meaning for themselves, and was consequently delayed and of
poor quality. As the quality of district planning will increasingly be judged on the basis of its
impact on local health indicators (from 1995), and not on individual program outputs, the
regional offices and the Health Information Unit at the MoH are also starting to organize a
"rethinking" of the national health informnation system, as part of the Implementation phase.
SIDA has provided technical assistance, training, computers, and stationery to address certain
resource and capacity issues at the central level, but provincial and district levels will require
substantial new support.
1.39   Drugs and Supplies: Aside from sympathetic and skilled health staff, clients place
the highest value on the availability of affordable drugs as an integral part of health services5'.
The MoH has obtained an annual $5 million in donor support (SIDA, Netherlands, EC) for
pre-packaged kits of essential drugs and basic equipment specifically for rural health facilities,
for at least the past five years. Of its own Government allocation for drugs and supplies -- K5
billion (US$7 million, 1994) -- half is consumed by the three central hospitals, with the
5' Beneficiary Assessment 1994.



- 14 -
remainder going to district hospitals and urban health centers. Thus, while this distribution of
government and donor resources has assured a reasonable and timely supply of drugs around
the country for rural health centers and (urban) central hospitals, the peri-urban areas and
district hospitals have suffered from inadequate government funding and little donor supportt'.
1.40   The HRIT is grappling with several issues in the reliable supply and use of consu-
mable products and pharmaceuticals in the public health sector. First, is the anachronism of a
centralized supply-driven distribution system interacting with an increasingly decentralized
district-based health system. The distribution system undoubtedly needs to become more res-
ponsive to district-level concerns - improving regularity of supply (particularly during the
rainy season when poor road conditions can leave drug kits at the district capital for months).
Medical Stores Limited (MSL), a parastatal with a monopoly on drug purchases and distribu-
tion, has overlapping responsibilities with the MoH and juggles a variety of donors and the
various medicines supplied by each at different times. Under the Health Reforms, the MoH
and the MSL will explore ways of improving the efficiency of this system.
1.41   Availability of imported drugs has also not assured appropriate or efficient use of
available drug supplies. The Health Reforms will endeavor to strengthen accountability within
the district for proper storage and prescription practices that will lead to more efficient use of
drugs. Although those health facilities receiving donor drug kits cite drug shortages as a chro-
nic problem (in terms of drug quantity received), part of the problem may be inefficient
therapeutic practices, such as over-prescription of penicillin and other antibiotics. Training
health care providers in efficient drug use has been unsystematic and not enforced through
supervision.
1.42   Transport and Logistics: The distribution of drugs, supervision of staff, community
outreach, and referral between different levels of Zambia's health care system all depend upon
a functional transport and logistics system. SIDA has supported the training of MoH transport
administrators, drivers, and mechanics since the 1980s, and the EC has provided spare parts
for the MoH's considerable transport fleet. Yet, even with donor assistance, the MoH was
not able to address the fundamental issues of regular maintenance and accountability for use,
which become increasingly important for an aging transport fleet. Again, the recent availabil-
ity of discretionary funds within the district budget has mitigated some of the immediate logis-
tical issues, by allowing health personnel to purchase spare parts and fuel when needed; this
has been confirmed by field visits and the review of quarterly district progress reports. Under
Health Reforms, the short-term solution is the-partial replacement of run-down vehicles. At
the same time, the Ministry of Health is establishing a transport policy that is primarily based
upon district level transport needs for assuring effective support for the package of care.
1.43   Financing: By early 1993, the Government decided to make demonstrable progress in
the delivery of social services a top government priority - a decision not only warranted by
widespread poverty throughout the country, particularly in urban areas, but also essential for
sustaining public support for the overall adjustment program. The MoH has successfully
argued for and received an increase in the share of the total central budget allocation for
health from an annual average of 8% in recent years to 13% in 1994. Within the Health
Ministry, the structure of the budget has been revised to better reflect the process of reform,
6' DANIDA is providing drug kits to urban centers for 15 months starting in 1994, as part of an emergency
support programn.



- 15 -
with the major change being the inclusion of all health services under the Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Health, as opposed to the previous system whereby budgetary estimates
and accounting for expenditures on health services at provincial level and below were under
the Provincial Permanent Secretary (of the Ministry of Local Government).
1.44   At the same time, health financing is starting to move from a centralized budget
system (in which districts suffered from insufficient and sporadic allocations) to a decen-
tralized system where the district health boards directly receive block grants. Through an
experimental pilot project in three districts during 1991-1992, the Ministry of Health was able
to demonstrate that effective and comprehensive management of health services was possible
at much lower levels of government, i.e., at the district level. This led to the creation of
health and management Boards in April 1993, through special statutory instruments, to enable
districts and hospitals to directly receive and disburse government financing. Since August
1993, all districts have received funding for recurrent costs: first on an interim basis with
donor financing only, then with the addition of Government funding since January 1994.
Building on the results of that effort, after external evaluation, district health budgeting has
become a reality throughout the country.
1.45   Nearly 18% of the MoH budget is now allocated as grants to District Health Manage-
ment Boards, in line with its decentralization policies. These are currently based on a
weighted allocation of US$2/capita for non-personnel recurrent costs. The MoH and the
Ministry of Finance have collaborated to allocate funds on the basis of the 1994 population
estimates (calculated from the 1990 census) in each district, weighted by the respective
population densities. (Low density areas with less than ten people per square kilometer
receive proportionately more per capita than high density areas where the population is greater
than 150 people per square kilometer.) From 1995 poverty indicators will also be used at
provincial levels to weight the MoH financial allocations to districts. Detailed guidelines have
been developed by the MoH to assist district management teams in the formulation of their
annual plans; funding had initially been contingent upon the development and approval of
district health plans that include monitorable indicators; district health management teams must
also have proven accounting capacity to handle these funds locally. The criteria for "good"
district plans continue to evolve as implementation of Health Reforms progress.
1.46 External assistance has enabled the Ministry to implement new projects and to sustain
many others. Realizing that this resulted in program direction and policy decisions being
unduly influenced by external priorities, however, the MoH is preparing the Strategic Plan as
a framework to facilitate donor coordination for the new health policy and the health sector
reforms. The Government is working with donors to use their funds within the context of
Health Reforms, e.g., to pool funds for training so as to maximize the benefits for the
districts, while strengthening individual staff skills, or pooling funds for purchase of new
equipment or to meet other needs identified by districts. The Government also asked the
donor community and the World Bank to assist in longer-term institution building and capacity
enhancement, as well as to explore the possibility of identifying and removing structural con-
straints to the delivery of social services.
1.47   Community Financing & Cost Recovery: Financing of the Zambian health system
has always been problematic. The long traditions of central budgeting for health, drawing
from public taxation, along with the narrow tax base in the country overall, have frustrated
equity-based strategic planning in the health sector. The additional revenue required to
finance health services cannot realistically be expected to come through more taxation. At the'



- 16 -
same time, there is convincing evidence that Zambia households are already spending
substantial out-of-pocket sums for health, both directly to private/traditional providers and
pharmnacies and indirectly in transport and waiting time for public services.
1.48   Under the Health Reforms, all able-bodied Zambians with income-earning capacity are
expected in principle to contribute to the cost of health care. Various strategies are being
explored to mobilize private resources in support of the formal health sector, including health
insurance, user fees, and other means of community financing. Private financing is envisaged
as a substitute for government involvement, such as when large, urban-based employers spon-
sor private health insurance to finance private health facilities. User fees, particularly for
recouping public expenditures on curative care at tertiary hospitals, are expected to facilitate
the reallocation of public resources for public ends. Revenue generated through agricultural
cooperatives and in-kind transactions have also been explored. These options reflect the hete-
rogeneity of the Zambian community and the health institutions that make up the national
health system.
1.49   User Charges: The Government has progressively implemented a policy of cost-
sharing through user fees to help ensure financial sustainability of publicly financed or
provided health care. User charges were introduced initially in Zambia in 1989, at a rate of
K4 for registration and K50 for medical exanination (when K12.5 = US$1). These fees
were collected at the facility level, forwarded to the Province through the district, and banked
by the Provincial Accounting Unit. Permission to use these revenues had to be granted by the
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Health, and was rarely either sought or forthcoming.
As such, there was little incentive to collect fees, although some districts/facilities resorted to
(unauthorized) retention of a certain proportion for their own use in times of extreme shor-
tage. A 1993 MoH directive authorized the introduction of medical fees in all districts. The
fees are determined locally - at provincial or district level - with revenues currently being
retained at facility or district level. Ad-hoc monitoring of the impact of health financing
policy implementation suggests, however, that outpatient attendance fell by about 60% and
delivery services by over 20% following introduction of fees in August 1993 in urban Lusaka.
At the same time, vulnerable groups seem to have been denied access to health services. The
Ministry has reconvened, the Health Care Financing Working Group to ensure that such issues
are raised, addressed and fed into the policy development process --with a particular focus on
increasing, rather than denyingi access to health care.
1.50   NGO/Private sector: While the Government will continue to play a dominant role in
the provision of health services for the foreseeable future, they also provide grants and subsi-
dies to (religious) mission and private hospitals (including those run by Zambia Consolidated
Copper Mines) in recognition of their contributions to national health service. In rural
Zambia, church-run health institutions provide over 50 percent of the health services, and
depend upon government block grants as well as overseas contributions to cover their running
costs. Incentives and grants to ZCCM hospitals - whose use had been limited to employees,
their families, and those others able to pay - are being tied to provision of health services to
the community at large, with the intention of improving equitable access to health services
and to raising low utilization of the private hospital facilities. NGOs which focus on family
planning concerns, such as the Planned Parenthood Association of Zambia (PPAZ), have
received direct grant support from the MoH.
1.51   Remaining Challenges: Many politically difficult decisions remain to be made as
part of the health reform process. On the basis of technical cost-effectiveness analysis, the



- 17 -
MoH has identified the following areas where it must now begin the process of involving
politicians more closely, in order to make sustainable changes in the health system:
(a)    Guarantee first and foremost the provision of the basic package of care. This
"limits" the types of service available to those that are more cost-effective;
consequently, interventions such as coronary by-pass or MRI will not be
provided unless clients can pay for them, and referral hospitals will be limited
in the services that they offer;
(b)     Rehabilitate and even extend those health facilities that are responsible for
delivering the bulk of the national package of care, and consequently refrain
from rehabilitating some wings of large health facilities that are not likely to
be productively and affordably used under the current budget;
(c)    Identify ways of redeploying staff from line of rail and Lusaka to rural areas,
where services have historically suffered from personnel shortages, and from
hospitals to health centers, by building on the review of work conditions in the
civil service that has been initiated; develop incentives for improving
performance and working in needy areas, and shift decision-making authority
for hiring and firing to district health boards;
(d)    Conduct cost-effectiveness analyses of all health departments and para-statal
agencies, such as the Flying Doctor Service, in terms of support to basic
health services;
(e)    Move away from the UTH as the sole training center for doctors, by sending
medical students to general hospitals and districts for more practical
management and clinical training - keeping in mind the need to strike a
balance between what is good for the country/society and what is good for
individual medical students;
(f)    Provide supplementary financing for district plans -- beyond the block grants
for recurrent costs - using criteria, such as levels of poverty (1994 Poverty
Assessment), updated statistical information from CSO regarding population
density, proven management capacity through programmatic and financial
audits, and conimunity-level initiative to launch new health promotion
activities; and
(g)    Reorganize the central Ministry of Health to more effectively support the
district-based system - with the consequent likelihood of down-sizing the
number of staff based at headquarters.



- 18 -
C. DONOR COORDINATION
1.52   The MoH has encouraged donor coordination in support of the Health Reforms, and
has proposed the following principles to their donor partners:
(a)    The Government's strategic plan will serve as the framework for all donor
contributions to the sector, and all donor support should fit within it. This
strategic plan will be discussed and updated regularly with all interested
donors.
(b)    Based on the agreed strategic plan, Government will develop a five-year
rolling investment program and an annual budget for recurrent costs and
grants. These will also be discussed with donors and fully reflect all donor
support. The investment program and the recurrent budget will represent a
consolidation of the programs from all district, hospital and parastatal boards.
(c)    For the recurrent budget, all donor support should be channelled to Districts
using a single set of planning, budgeting, disbursement, accounting and
auditing mechanisms.
1.53   This coordination effort reflects a desire to minimize possible duplication of services,
and to avoid contradictory and inequitable policies and activities. By focussing on capacity
building, health policy reform and operationally relevant research, the MoH is in a stronger
position to negotiate the required donor support for national priorities. The national Health
PolicyZ' acknowledges the crucial importance of this donor funding for the future development
of the Health sector, and consequently the need to involve donors in the health planning and
review process. The Ministry has held regular donor coordination meetings since 1992, to
ensure coordinated support for the implementation of the Health Reforms.
1.54   Starting at the early stages of project preparation, the World Bank team worked
together with WHO and UNICEF to speak with "one voice." Given the different comparative
advantages of these organizations, this partnership has worked well to maintain coherence and
continuity in support of the Government's health reform process.
1.55   Since the Health Policy Reforms were articulated, bilateral donors already supporting
the health sector have responded very positively, and new donors have entered the sector.
Within the new framework, donor pledges and commitments are becoming easier to monitor,
and the relationship between the MoH and donor agencies is generally warm. This coordina-
tion will continue to be nurtured and encouraged to grow further. For example, donors are
making increasing efforts to synchronize missions of a similar nature, in the interests of both
information sharing and time savings for their Zambian counterparts, and the MoH Planning
and Management Unit will begin to coordinate outside visits and missions, so as to permit
more time for staff to carry on with pending work.  A joint donor statement reflecting
support of the Health Reforms is attached as Annex 4.
Z1MoH, "Natiol Health Policies and Soategies (Health Reforns)", October 1992



- 19 -
II. PROPOSED PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.1   The IDA project would support the process set in motion through the Government's
health reform program, with a view to improving access to and the quality of a national
package of essential health services in a decentralized health care delivery system. In this
way, the project aims to improve health outcomes, particularly in terms of nutritional status,
lower fertility, and reduced transmission of HIV. Fulfilling these objectives would contribute
to the social sustainability of the adjustment program and strengthen the human resource base
necessary for the future growth of Zambia.
B. PRoJECT DEscRImON
2.2   The IDA project would consist of investment and incremental recurrent financing
within a consolidated health reform program prepared by Government and agreed with a core
group of donors. IDA financing will be structured to fit with the national health reform
program, financing a slice of each of three national budgets (investment, policy development
and recurrent) based on annual agreements. The exact mix would be determined on an annual
basis but with a three-year rolling program.
2.3   The project is designed as an inte-    4 The Planner and the TA
grated sector support project, such as
those projects planned in agriculture and  The planner: "I need answers, not ques-
education in Zambia and recently approved    tions. You are the expert, and you have the
in the transport sector in Mozambique.   knowledge. If I were lost in a forest and
This approach is being taken when the    you came by with compass and map, I
Government has taken the lead in carefully    would ask you to show me the way out!"
preparing a common framework under
which donors to the sector (including IDA)    TA: "Of course, I will show you the way
will normally provide their support. This  out of the forest, but first you have to tell
approach implies changes in the way the  me where you want to go" [conversation
project is described and outlined. In tradi-    excerpt at MoH Lusaka, 1/93]
tional investment projects, the preparation
and appraisal process focus on reviewing
and planning the specific items (such as
infrastructure or support systems) slated for financing. In this case, the project supports the
Government in on-going development of policy and its operationalization, even as reforms are
proceeding. Therefore, specific items will be identified throughout implementation of the
project: when applying a sector support model for financing, project preparation and appraisal
are focused on the nature of the apex institution's involvement and the processes by which
specific investment items will be identified during implementation. It also implies a different
attitude towards expert advice (see box 4), where clear directions are specified by Government
and the expert helps with the details.
2.4   There are no clear cut answers to a number of issues that the Health Reforms are
raising. The MoH will continue to require technical and financial support to test and debate
the most appropriate responses for Zambia. The changes being implemented at the district,



- 20 -
provincial and central levels will also call for mid-course assessments and revisions that build
upon in-country experience
2.5    The IDA credit would be divided into three major components (the numbers in
parentheses are tentative estimates of the share of the credit allocated to each component):
(a)    policy development support (3%), including support for national policy devel-
opment and operational research to help refine the basic policy framework,
and adapt operational strategies to the Zambian context through phased testing
of delivery systems, operations research and studies;
(b)   investment program support (95%), and incremental recurrent budget support
(1 %) which would support Districts in the implementation of Health Reforms
through their service delivery, for both capital investment costs (or "hardware"
such as civil works, training and logistics equipment) and recurrent costs
(including supplies, drugs, maintenance and logistics). This latter support will
be provided on a sliding scale, with proportional increases in Zambian contri-
butions over the duration of this project; and
(c)    external monitoring and evaluation (1 %) including support for monitoring
progress attained through Health Reforms, and evaluation through beneficiary
assessments, auditing, and quality control.
IDA would play the role of "donor of last resort", by supporting those elements of the agreed
upon national health program for which there is no other donor funding. Bank technical
supervision and facilitation will continue to work with all donors and the Government to
ensure that the planning, imnplementation and evaluation components are strong, and continue
to be developed and institutionalized by the relevant Zambian agencies.
2.6    Under the policy development component, the project will support research and deve-
lopment, particularly through operations research. This will include, for example, the devel-
opment of community health approaches in peri-urban areas, appropriate cost-sharing mecha-
nisms and fees, refining the definition of the multi-disciplinary skills required for effective
delivery of the package of care, and methods for strengthening management practices within
the health facilities and at the support levels. They will be funded on the basis of: (1) testing
new approaches, (2) innovation, (3) limited timne frame, and (4) utility for learning from expe-
rience. The HRIT would each year present its plans for following year as part of its discus-
sions with donors on the budget for the following year.
2.7    The investment program will include the following elements and be based on a
summary of the individual district and hospital boards' investment programs consolidated in
accordance with the Strategic Plan.
(a)    Anfrastructure and equipment: rehabilitation starting with health service
facilities, but also considering the needs of newly established Health Boards
and DHMTs, and the physically fragmented MoH. Transparent criteria and
standards are established in the Strategic Plan to enable the Health Boards to
"qualify" for supplementary assistance and supervision;



- 21 -
(b)    Capacity building: to improve planning and implementation skills at district,
regional, and central levels in the areas of clinical competence, corporate
planning and management, outreach, monitoring, use of the HMIS, and super-
vision; and
(c)   Supplies: to assure a regular supply of essential drugs and materials for health
service facilities to function effectively.
2.8   Incremental recurrent budget support would help finance that part of the
Government's recurrent budget that are related to the "retooling" of the health system. At
health center level, there will be phased implementation of the Health Reforms, so that in each
district, an average of two facilities will be covered each year. These facilities will have
incremental capital and recurrent cost implications that would be eligible for IDA funding,
such as temporary increases in costs as staff are reoriented towards ensuring that their clients
make effective use of the package of care, seminars for district staff on their new
responsibilities, and improved community outreach which will be more intense during start-up.
Such items would be included in the budget for each year, and discussed with donors in
October of the preceding year.
2.9    External evaluation and monitoring will be integral to determining the shape of the
following year's funding. Beneficiary assessments will monitor structural and procedural
changes within the MoH, and client perceptions of improvements in health care services.
These will be supplemented by output measures, such as utilization rate changes, and selected
specific program indicators (e.g., nutritional status, vaccination coverage, ante-natal care
visits, and contraceptive prevalence rates as collected by the Food Security, Health and
Nutrition monitoring system and from the regular reporting from districts). Finally, outcome
measures would be monitored by external ad-hoc studies, and by "buying" into the regular
social indicator data collection by the Central Statistics Office. The evaluation component
would help fund such external evaluations along with technical, financial and procurement
audits. The audits would be carried out by private independent auditors; these will help to
draw lessons from the Health Reforms and to monitor the innovative aspects of procurement
and disbursements being proposed under this project.
C. HEALTH REFORM IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM 1995-98
Health Sector Management
2.10   The role of the Ministry of Health headquarters is being transformed to provide:
(a)    planning and capacity building support for initiatives in district-based health
care management; and monitoring of performance, both for areas of weakness
and for disseminating best practice for quality improvements in health care
services;
(b)    technical expertise in basic health programs and clinical services to advise
health care providers; and



- 22 -
(c)    administrative support in the form of a procurement and distribution system
that is responsive to district requests (for drugs, medical equipment, etc.), and
budgeting, accounting and audit support.
The MoH will remain responsible for policy formulation, resource allocation, donor coordina-
tion, technical and logistical support (including essential research and technical guidance), but
they will shift their modus operandi from top-down planning to support for the district-based
planning approach. By consequence, the central MoH is being reconfigured in order to res-
pond more effectively to the needs of districts and service providers assigned to health
facilities and communities, and a net reduction of central and provincial level staff is anticipa-
ted. An initial plan will be finalized by end 1994, and actual changes will be in place in 1995
(see Annex 2). Review of progress will be included in the annual Strategic Plan review.
2.11   Central-level program managers are being trained on-the-job to develop strategies and
plans that assist districts in designing and implementing quality health care services. National
program managers will become advisors to the districts to help adapt the national package and
define appropriate strategies for its delivery in the specific local settings. Program managers
will monitor outputs and outcomes to track improvements and/or the need for research in their
specific areas. In addition, they will ensure that the continual development of Zambia's
health-care system benefit from lessons learned internationally regarding interventions and
strategies for addressing special health concerns, and monitor the quality of health care
services, ensuring that standards are maintained. For these they will need external financial
and technical support for policy development and operations research.
2.12   Program managers will also have a role in directly supporting the household and com-
munity package. Interventions such as family planning, prevention of HIV/AIDS, diarrhoeal
disease control and good nutrition will require inter-sectoral efforts to enable families to affect
change within their households. National program managers have a critical role in coordina-
ting with relevant sectors to ensure community access to information, technical assistance and
physical resources.
2.13   The most critical dimension of decentralization is the extent to which efforts reach
communities and families. District Health Boards (DHBs) will oversee the delivery of the
locally adapted national package of essential health services in their geographic areas of res-
ponsibility. The DHBs will also work with communities and health centers to set up Area
Health Boards (at sub-district level) - further linking the health services with clients, and
encouraging quality control and community involvement. Hospital Boards will oversee the
delivery of referral packages of care through provincial and tertiary hospitals that support, but
do not compete with, delivery of the district packages of care. By 1996, district and hospital
authorities will have discretionary authority for personnel recruitment, assignment of tasks,
and the allocation of human resources. They will also develop, together with Neighborhood
Committees and health workers, suitable structures for local decision-making, quality control
and financial accountability.
2.14   These boards will be technically accountable to the Ministry of Health for overall
service delivery, and be politically and administratively responsive to the matching local
government unit. Districts will receive supplementary funding (in addition to the $2/capita for
operating costs) on the basis of their proven capacity to budget for depreciation and manage a
separate bank account for non-operating costs, to ensure that funds are reserved for future
investment needs. The evolving capacity of the district health management teams are being



- 23 -
constantly monitored through regular supervision and contact by the HRIT. For example, a
review of district-level capacity to manage funds showed that only 4 out of 61 districts had
intentionally mismanaged their discretionary budget in the second hall of 1993. In June 1994,
district management teams met for a week in Lusaka with central level program advisors to
discuss plans and expectations for next year (a total of six weeks of meetings for central
level). Not only did this show that decentralization is not synonymous with a total transfer of
responsibility; both central and district staff learned that as the latter's capacity and operational
responsibility grow, it is incumbent upon central-level staff to provide timely technical advice.
2.15   The district will be the basic unit of management where bottom-up planning and
implementation initiatives meet the thrust of national policies. Future decentralization to
districts will be in the following areas:
-      management of district-based services including all resources (capital,
recurrent, equipment and human);
-      provision of integrated health programs based on established output, process
and input standards which respond to local priorities;
-      auditing district performance in terms of quality, quantity and accessibility;
-      preparation of an annual health plan in accordance with resources available
and local priorities and national goals;
-      consultation with Local Government and other agencies whose collaboration is
required for effective delivery of health care;
-      collaboration with the Regional Health Manager as the local agent of the
Ministry and support to the Manager in the exercise of his/her responsibilities;
-      establishing Area Boards of Health, provide specific terms of reference, and to
support them in their work;
-      encouraging community participation in health planning and delivery.
Progress and future steps in these areas will be discussed at the time of annual consultations.
2.16   To ensure that districts have the capacity to execute the above responsibilities, a
training program is planned from August to November 1994, with SIDA funding, for three
members of the management team. One course will be geared towards team leaders, and will
focus on management and leadership-building skills; the second will be for program develop-
ment skills in applied epidemiology and systems research; the third will be for development of
administrative skills. These courses have been organized to avoid a vacuum of leadership and
management within the district; only one member from each team will be away on training at
any given time.
2.17   Commensurate with the changes at district and central MoH levels, the secondary and
tertiary hospital levels have requested HRIT assistance in adapting to the new planning and
budgeting methods that are based on defined packages of care. While some district-level
methods will be adapted to accommodate institutional specificities of larger hospitals, it is
significant that the traditionally more recalcitrant sectors of the medical establishment have
started to demand participation in the Health Reforms. Training in planning and management
problem-solving skills for the provincial hospitals are planned for end-1994.



- 24 -
Human Resource Development
2.18   Underlying the vision of decentralization is the development of partnerships for health
-- between the MoH, health care providers, district managers, communities, and non-
governmental partners. This implies a substantial cultural change -- from "parrots" who
respect and obey the hierarchy to partners who can argue back, question and make demands
upon the central level - recognized by the MoH as a challenge for Human Resource
Development. In order to increase the effectiveness of the planning, deployment and manage-
ment of human resources within the Government health service, and to strengthen the capacity
of district health staff to think more analytically and productively, the appraisal mission agreed
with the Government upon the areas of human resource development that are detailed in the
Strategic Plan. Progress in these areas will be discussed during annual consultations. ODA
and other donors have already agreed to provide some financial support to the MoH in:
-      the development and implementation of a personnel handbook,
-      training of personnel officers,
-      provision of "training of trainers" skills to district staff,
-      development of new job descriptions for all categories of staff, and improved
transparency in terms of career advancement opportunities,
-      establishment of a performance appraisal system for senior staff within the
districts,
-      development of a supportive supervision and feedback system, especially
where there is a performance gap that needs correction,
-      development of a district-level human resource planning system and a
personnel record system, to enable district managers to improve working
relations and staff morale within their teams.
The aim is to be able to evaluate district performance primarily on the basis of changes in
community health indicators and client satisfaction, with individual staff evaluated on their
multi-disciplinary skills and contribution to teamwork.
Rehabilitation of Infrastructure
2.19   The investment program will include an infrastructure component, comprising the
following Government priorities in the field of rehabilitation and extension of health facilities:
(a)    rehabilitation and extension of existing Rural Health Centers (RHCs) to enable
them to support the delivery of the RHC package of health services; and
(b)    creating additional bed-capacity at Urban Health Centers in Lusaka to reduce
the pressure on hospital bed-space.
2.20   Rural Health Centers (RHC) are being designed to serve a population of 10,000.
Considering the services for which they will be responsible, this translates into an area of 492
m2 per facility, in terms of space requirements. Existing RHCs throughout Zambia will be
ranked by catchment area population, access radius, and physical conditions. Priority will be
accorded to RHCs on the basis of their respective staff's management capacity and
performance. Based on existing bed capacity, the required extension floor area is calculated
per selected facility. Physical conditions and possibilities for converting and expanding
existing facilities to accommodate new spatial needs will be surveyed after selection.



- 25 -
2.21   This new RHC concept will allow for adjustment to typical local conditions and
requirements. Where RHCs take responsibility for providing health services to small pockets
of population groups living further than 22 km away, mobile health workers will operate from
satellite home-based work stations. An estimated 10% of the RHCs will require this set-up.
Out of the existing 733 RHCs, 470 are slated for rehabilitation, and 297 require alterations or
extensions, at a total estimated cost of US$ 59.3 million. 59 health posts are also identified as
needing rehabilitation, at a cost of $2.1 million. A major portion of the resources available
for infrastructure will go towards the construction and rehabilitation of staff housing, with
particular priority given to those areas where there is no alternative in terms of a rental
market. Lack of housing is consistently cited as one of the major constraints to assignment of
staff in rural areas. An estimated $94 million is needed for staff housing. The total estimated
cost for rural health infrastructure is US$155.4 million over a four year period.
2.22   Urban Health Centers will serve an average population group of 50,000 requiring a
total floor area of 1,128m2 per facility. Most UHCs currently accommodate less than ten in-
patient beds. This number will be increased to 29 beds, in order to reduce the pressure on
hospital beds in Lusaka (less than 2 per 1000). The selection of urban health centers to be
rehabilitated is based on criteria of service to low-income groups, urgency of physical
conditions, assessment of the possibilities for expansion, staff management capacity and
performance. 68 of the existing 203 UHCs are targeted for rehabilitation or extension to a 29
bed capacity. An estimated $22.8 million is needed to realize this goal over a four year
period.
2.23   Out of the above identified needs for health infrastructure (both rural and urban), the
Governrent, World Bank and ODA will finance $44 million in the years 1995 through 1998.
Other donors are being sought to fund the remainder. The funding gap will not, however,
jeopardize the sustainability of the project presented here, as the criteria for implementation
are based on district-specific capacity and needs. Other infrastructure (such as secondary and
tertiary referral hospitals) will be included in the program as their role in supporting the
delivery of the basic package of care is clarified and refined; the MoH is currently working on
these clarifications. Government has agreed (as a condition of disbursement) to access funds
from the IDA credit for civil works for other than District facilities only after the equivalent
of at least US$10 million has been disbursed for health centers and other district level facilities
(para 5.3).
User-Friendly Health Information System
2.24   Redesign of the health information system (HIS) is foreseen as one more component of
national Health Reforms, in order to create a system that is more responsive to the district
requirements. To build upon the strengths of the existing system, the MoH will review the
data that health center and hospital workers are currently collecting, with the objective of
consolidating current requirements to be locally useful (to the community and health facility)
in the first instance, and aggregated at the district, provincial and central levels. The aggrega'
tion of data at provincial and central level will be for purposes of national monitoring. A
Core Review Group will be created to analyze this data, disseminate it within the central
ministry, and provide feedback with the periphery as part of their district supervision. To
strengthen HIS capacity, particularly within the districts, new formats, equipment, training and
attitudinal change will be needed at all levels. Progress will be reviewed in the annual
Strategic Plan Implementation review.



- 26 -
Drugs and Supplies
2.25   The national drug policy will be reformulated by the first quarter of 1995, to reflect
more support for the decentralized health system, as articulated in the Strategic Plan. The
Zambia National Formulary (essential drug list) will be consequently updated to reflect the
drugs needed for effective delivery of the newly defined national package of essential health
services. These revisions will be spearheaded by the central Department of Pharmaceuticals
and Supplies and Medical Stores Limited, with the involvement of all levels of the health
system; they will take into account disease prevalence and incidence, safety and efficacy,
therapeutic advantage, benefit/risk ratio as well as costs.
2.26   Decentralization of the drug budget is envisaged to assure that the supply system
becomes more responsive to district needs. This means that each district will receive the
funds allocated to their budget line for drugs, and have the authorization to purchase these
supplies at the most competitive prices. Currently, these funds are a notional allocation, in
that the districts receive centrally-distributed drugs (in kind) instead of funds. Under the
envisaged system, districts will not necessarily be expected to fend for themselves; the central
level will still assure the availability of enough products for the public system, and some
provinces are already discussing ways of making bulk purchases of drugs and supplies for
their districts as part of their new responsibilities. A decentralized drug-purchasing system
also opens the way for linking local revenue generation through user fees with the restocking
of drugs for the community health facility.
Equipment and Transport: Logistics and Maintenance
2.27   Future vehicle purchases, even those financed by donors, will be standardized by
using criteria such as affordable maintenance and availability of spare parts. As part of the
decentralized management system, districts will be encouraged to think about the best way to
secure a regular supply and safe storage of spare parts. Their budgets, as well as those of the
provincial and central ministry will include lines to cover recurrent expenditures for repair
maintenance, spare parts, oil, lubricants, fuel and transport allowances. The government
garages and workshops, already located in each province, will be strengthened to service
repairs that cannot be handled within the districts. Furthermore, district budgets will allow
DHMTs to explore contractual relationships with private mechanics. On the basis of these
policies, and monitoring of the health sector fleet, the MoH will seek donor funds for the
replacement of the vehicles that are beyond repair.
Financng
2.28   Zambia's Health Policy document directs the Planning and Management Unit to
identify specific initiatives in the area of cost-containment and sourcing of additional revenues
for the health sector - tacitly recognizing that the government cannot substantially raise the
required additional revenue through taxation. The primary goal is to make better use of
available public funds by reallocating them from curative care to preventive and primary
health care.
2.29   Public Financing: That it is possible to see a district-by-district breakdown of
funding, based on identifiable and transparent allocation criteria, for the first time, represents
a step in the right direction. The Ministry recognizes that this budgetary system needs to be
further refined, however. The Ministry has allocated nearly 18% of its 1994 budget as (non-



- 27 -
salary) grants to District Health Boards in 1994, plus 15.53% to the provinces (provincial
hospitals, provincial offices, and personal emoluments for all staff at provincial level and
below). An additional improvement is that districts have been notified in advance of their
expected allocation, both in nominal terms and as a proportion of the total Ministry budget, in
order to ensure that the relative allocations are maintained even in the event of reduced
disbursement from the Ministry of Finance.
2.30   Principles for Financing Decisions: In the absence of sufficient funding to meet all
demands upon the health sector, the MoH is developing funding guidelines based on national
health priorities. The Government assumes responsibility for supply of the basic package of
health services, as defined by the Ministry of Health, and will make this their priority in the
use of Government budgetary resources. Under the Health Reforms, preventive services in
particular will be expanded, based on the premise that prevention is more cost-effective than
cure, especially when the personal costs of individual suffering are considered. These include
the continued prevention of communicable diseases; prevention of HIV infection/AIDS;
prevention of malnutrition; prevention and treatment of malaria; and preventive maintenance
of existing health infrastructure. The Government will also take responsibility for funding
"public goods" such as chlorination of water sources and public health education/promotion
exercises!'. (Water pollution and inadequate sanitation have been identified in the National
Environmental Action Plan as the most important issues with the greatest social cost to
Zambia.)
2.31   Although significant improvements both in the share of public sector expenditure on
health, and in the use of those funds within the sector, are expected through the health reform
process, the Ministry of Health can only assess economic efficiency if it knows about total
spending from all sources. This is important in order to examine options, help establish
priorities and to weigh costs against available finances. It will also enable more realistic
figures to be included in the Government's public investment program (PIP). The MoH is
collaborating with the Ministry of Finance in a public expenditure review to determine what
the government is currently spending on health, in terms of investment and recurrent costs.
2.32   The Government has also moved away from an unaffordable "free health care"
system, to consider the revenue-generating potential of cost-sharing through different
mechanisms that will not endanger the proposed reforms. Before any nation-wide mechanism
is implemented, however, they are committed to improving the quality of services provided
through the basic package of care.
(a)    User Fees: Though total revenues generated may be modest, the MoH will
pursue improvement in cost recovery through user fees to (i) strengthen the position of
the MoH in its annual "budget battle" with Ministry of Finance; (ii) provide incentives
to health service managers to enhance both revenue collections and service quality by
allowing retention of fees at the point of collection; (iii) promote equity by requiring
that patients from higher income households (many of whom will have health
insurance) pay for the health care they receive; and (iv) monitor the rates of cost
recovery as a proxy measure of quality care, based on willingness of middle and low-
"Public goods ame considerd those whose consumption by one individual does not reduce the amount available to
another, and where nobody can be excluded from such consumption.



- 28 -
income households to pay for services.  Experience in other countries of Sub-Saharan
African show that such strategies can help alleviate budgetary shortfalls among public
providers, stimulate private financing and provision of health care, and contribute to
equity in the process. The success stories have been conditioned, however, by an
improvement in the quality of public services that persuade individuals of the "value
for money" paid for this type of care.
(b)    Pre-payment: The Ministry is exploring the possibility of introducing a pre-
payment scheme on a voluntary basis to allow for payment in-kind and seasonal pay-
ments, as an alternative to user fees and commercial medical insurance, particularly
for clients in rural areas. Payments would be collected quarterly to minimize the
administrative burden on both households and collecting agencies.
2.33   Donor Funding: Certain vital inputs required to support the national package of health
services, such as essential drugs, vaccines, and equipment remain unavailable within the
country or available only at high cost. It is therefore more rational to import these items.
Given the foreign exchange constraint faced by the MoH, external support for such items is
envisaged for the short- and medium-term. At the same time, the exploration of cost-sharing
mechanisms reflect national concern and desire to assume an increased proportion of such
costs within the country, and to wean Zambia away from dependence on a variety of bilateral
and multilateral donors and NGOs.
2.34   Private Funding Considerations: Certain services and functions may be best
performed by the private sector, particularly those which are by nature "private" as opposed to
"public goods". Some surgical interventions may attract more private funding, for example.
The packaging exercise is expected to define activities and resources specific to each level of
care, including secondary and tertiary hospital levels, that would reflect priorities for
Government funding. Health facilities wishing to offer services in addition to the national
package would then have to take responsibility for mobilizing resources necessary for.such
services. Certain support functions may also be more efficiently provided by a private agent,
such as laundry and catering. Research is currently being undertaken on the scale and scope
of the private health sector in Zambia; their findings will be incorporated into the decision-
making process.
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENATION: PROCESS AND IMPLEMENTATION AGENCIES
2.35   Status of Project Preparation: From the early stages of project identification and
preparation, the Ministry of Health has taken the lead in shaping the scope and implementation
of the Health Reforms. The Health Reform Implementation Tearn and Planning/Management
Unit have worked closely together to draw upon MoH staff in different departments and
scattered geographic assignments, to organize the Zambian health system along the lines
envisaged by the new policies. As an integral part of this work, they tested a health planning
framework introduced by an IDA mission in May 1993. The output catalyzed by this process
is the Strategic Plan, whose development process has furthered extensive dialogue and
discussion within the Ministry of Health. It has also harnessed existing capacity in the MoH
that shows potential for further dynamic evolution, in areas such as human resource
development, civil service reform, and coordination of financial planning exercises with the
Ministry of Finance. At the same time, the lengthy but intensive preparation process has
created an exceptional level of energy and motivation at all levels in the health system.



- 29 -
2.36   Process: The Government, IDA and core donors have agreed on the following imple-
mentation process of the Health Reform program. The Government has presented its Strategic
Plan which outlines the framework and standards for the new system, including: content and
cost-effective delivery methods for the national package; roles and responsibilities of each
level of the system (community, health center, general hospital, district health board,
secondary and tertiary hospitals and their respective hospital boards, and the central MoH);
policies for the health management information system, drugs, supplies, human resource
development, and budgeting guidelines. The plan also contains an implementation strategy
that details the criteria and means by which district plans will be funded, executed and
monitored. It is complemented by an action plan to harmonize planning, budgeting,
disbursement and accounting mechanisms to enable all donor support to be channeled through
one system, whether supportive of broad sectoral operations or specific program activities.
2.37   The Strategic Plan will be updated annually by government and discussed with donors
no later than November 1 of each calendar year (the first review was held in 1994). It would
identify the areas for which donor support is solicited. During the annual consultations, IDA
and cooperating donors would discuss the proposed plans and investments in light of criteria
that include cost effectiveness, institutional capacity at district level, cost recovery potential
and affordability. An assessment of the effects of decentralized authority over the preceding
year, and plans for the upcoming year will also be on the agenda.
2.38   1995 is planned as a transition year, to train staff and prepare plans that reflect the
new standards. The 1995 workplan (see Annex 3) shows that extensive work is scheduled in
the areas of human resource development, management, and monitoring to enable staff at all
levels of the health system to participate in the on-going reforms. Procedures for procurement
of drugs, and rehabilitation of infrastructure will also be more closely examined during this
year.
2.39   Based upon the Strategic Plan, the Government will prepare a rolling five-year
investment program and an annual recurrent cost budget. These documents will also be
discussed with donors (including IDA) before November of each calendar year, starting in
1994. Each donor will then bilaterally structure their support on the basis of the Strategic
Plan, investment program and budget. ODA, DANIDA, SIDA, the Netherlands, WHO, and
UNICEF, who together account for more than 80 percent of total donor funding, have indica-
ted their ihitent in following this system, and have agreed to fund only areas included in the
core documents. Other donors will likely follow suit (including EC and USAID), once the
new system is in place. The Government has presented the Strategic Plan, the 1995 work
plan (see Annex 3), 1995-1998 investment program and 1995 draft budget in a forrn and with
a content acceptable to IDA and the above donors. A detailed procurement plan and training
plan will be available before the end of 1994 based on an outline acceptable to IDA. The
Government will demonstrate to the satisfaction of IDA that the investment program and draft
budget for the health sector for 1995 are fully financed as a condition of effectiveness. The
Credit will be structured so as to ensure IDA agreement with the current versions of the
Strategic Plan, the investment program and the recurrent budget for disbursements to be
continued.
2.40 Implementation Agencies: The Planning and Management Unit (PMU) of the
Ministry of Health, an existing unit which coordinates all donor-financed investment in the
sector, would be responsible for implementation of the project on behalf of the Government of
Zambia. The Unit has been strengthened by several donors with long-term international



- 30 -
technical assistance and training for Zambian staff, and additional key positions may be funded
by WHO and SIDA, so there is no need to fund long-term technical assistance under the IDA
credit. However, selected short term technical assistance could be included in the annual
budgets as the need arises for specific advice and technical know-how. As with the other
investment items, technical assistance will not be predetermined but based on agreed annual
programs integrated into the whole reform process as supported by this project. Local long-
run technical assistance may be necessary as a temporary measure of adequately funding HRIT
staff until the new Human Resource Policy can be implemented.
2.41   Members of the PMU have been identified to liaise specifically with IDA on imple-
mentation of the IDA support. These staff have participated in the recent country portfolio
performance review, have received specific training in IDA disbursement and procurement
procedures and have implemented the PPF in accordance with IDA requirements. The PMU,
as discussed above, is an integral part of the ministry and already works closely with the
HRIT, so the management of the IDA project is fully integrated into Government structures.
2.42   Reporting requirements: Joint biannual reviews between the Government and the
donor agencies will be held in April and October of each year during program implementa-
tion. The importance of these meetings for strategic decision-making would obviate the need
for a mid-term review. Prior to May I each year, beginning in 1996, the Government will
present a report on implementation of the reforms in the previous year. This report will pre-
sent evidence that the previous year's budgeted investment and recurrent expenditures took
place as envisaged. It will also discuss, inter alia, progress in meeting the agreed output tar-
gets in the districts; progress in the number of health centers and other facilities offering the
basic package of services in the country; a summary of the beneficiary assessment and other
external reviews of the previous year with a summary of actions proposed and taken to correct
any problems found; progress in implementation of revised policies and logistics systems in
areas such as human resources, drugs and supplies, urban primary health care, family plan-
ning, and nutrition; and draft audit reports for the boards that have received support in the
preceding year (see Annex 4).
2.43   Alternative implementation arrangements: There are no practical alternatives to the
proposed sector approach, as a traditional investment project would destroy the Government-
led process of reforms and would not be sustainable institutionally. If it should prove to be
impossible to recommend a continuation of the sector-wide approach, as reflected in disagree-
ments between IDA and the Govermnent on the Strategic Plan, the investment program or the
health budget, implementation would be halted and ultimately the credit would be cancelled
(para 5.4).
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
2.44   The project will strengthen the capacity of the health sector to respond to evolving
epidemiological and financial circumstances, thereby ensuring the development of sustainable
services. Recurrent costs will be financed on a sliding scale, as "re-tooling" of the delivery
system from the present inefficient, centralized system will require short-run cost increases.
The Government is committed to ensuring sufficient domestic funding of the health system,
and has already increased its funding for District non-personnel recurrent costs in the 1994
budget. During budget implementation in 1994, the MoH has protected spending on drugs
and on grants to district health boards in absolute terms, although the Ministry received a



- 31 -
smaller share of the overall budget than expected. In the past, this had been a problem: the
budget figures tended to show a higher allocation to the primary (district) level that was actu-
ally released. The Government is also committed to developing a comprehensive health finan-
cing framework, and have already authorized local cost recovery measures, albeit outside of
the above framework. The linkages between quality, costs, and fees are being addressed as
part of the Strategic Plan.
2.45   Zambia will be able        Table 2: The New System is Sustainable: Evidence from
to afford sustaining the new      Better Health in Africa (BHA)
health system in the medium
term with only minor real                             (1993 US$/Capita)
funding increases and fun-
ding realignments over time.                              BHA numbers
According to Better Health                                low income    med. income
in Africa9' (BHA) a well run
district based system would       Health care             5.21            7.29
cost $6.66 per capita per
year including central sup-       Institutional
port functions (see Table 2).     support                 1.45            2.02
Figure 3 compares the BHA
numbers with projections of       Nutrition               1.32            2.75
fiscal spending on district       Family Planning         1.00            0.50
health services. All the pro-
jections are based on             Total                   8.98             12.56
revenue projections devel-
oped under the ongoing
public expenditure exercise.      Notes:
Assuming no increase in the       low income = low income countries.
health sector's share of the     mfred. income = higher incomne countries.
overall budget and no             The extra costs for family planning and nutrition is intended to rapidly
increase in the share of          increase the coverage of these services above and beyond that aimed for
increase in the share of          by the national package. Specifically, these costs will cover working
District services within the      through NGOs with a specific focus on famnily plaming, and
health budget, districts in       supplemental feeding programs.
Zambia would receive about
US$9.37 per year by the
year 2000 ("dist 1" in Figure 3). Assuming minimal re-allocations within the health budget
(by keeping the real $/capita figure for non-district services constant over time), Zambia could
afford to spend US$10.82 on districts in the year 2000('dist 2" in Figure 3). This amount
would be higher than that required for a well-run health system in the future assuming that
Zambia is comparable to other low-income African countries and almost enough to cover what
is required in a higher-cost setting. According to BHA, Zambia would even be able to afford
expanding family planning and nutrition services under the recurrent costs, and not have to
rely on donor or other ministries' funding for this.
2.46   While it will be possible for Zambia to fund the recurrent costs (including capital
depreciation) in the medium term, this would require a major reworking of the system from
2'  A Framework and Indicative Cost Analysis for Better Health in Africa, World Bank, Africa Technical De-
partment, Technical Working Paper No. 8, May 1993.



- 32 -
$13.C00 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
$12.00
$11.00  -_--_  dist1
$10.00                                                           ---      dist 2
: $9.00 ..                     -.BHA-low
$8.00 -  ,                        ~     ~ -       -    BHA-medium
$7.00
$60         I       I       I        X I
S6.00
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Years
Figure 3: Projections of Zarnbian expenditures compared to BHA numbers ($/capita)
its current inefficient state. This qualitative change is exactly what the Health Reforms and
this project aim to support. In the short run, the total costs of the system would be much
higher than Zambia can afford, as investments are made in new systems, infrastructure and
human resources. This is the basic justification for the major investments taking place over
the medium term financed by external sources.
2.47   Lessons from Previous IDA Involvement: The Bank group has not been involved in
the Zambian health sector previously. Health sector experience in other countries demon-
strate, however, the need for more comprehensive and integrated sectoral involvement, to
ensure sustainable development impact.
2.48   1993 World Development Report and Better Health in Africa both provide insight and
lessons within the health sector, particularly within Sub-Saharan Africa, showing that scarce
resources for health can be spent far more cost-effectively by emphasizing a package of cost-
effective health services.
2.49   We have drawn from the lessons conveyed in the Wapenhans Report and the Long-
Term Perspective Study of Sub-Saharan Africa, that the ownership- and capacity-building
process of project preparation are the first, critical steps for effective project implementation.
2.50   The Zambia Poverty Assessment (1994) shows the strong linkages between poverty,
poor health status and malnutrition; specific measures for improved health and nutrition are
essential to mitigate the worst consequences of poverty as a "consumption' or welfare
element. But improved health and nutrition is also essential to building the human resource
base for long-term pro-poor growth. Irrespective of income level, some categories (e.g.
women and children) are in need of special attention.
2.51   Environment. The project has been rated C due to the sector reform nature of the
credit, so no environmental assessment has been carried out. Environmental considerations
will be built into the sub-project appraisal and financing criteria and agreed with IDA prior to



- 33 -
implementation. Such criteria will be in correspondence with the recently completed National
Environmental Action Plan. The overall impact on the environment is expected to be small but
positive: some of the main health problems are due to poor sanitation and water supply, and
remedies for those problems will improve both public health and the environment. All of the
infrastructure built will be either rehabilitation or expansion of existing facilities.



- 34 -
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENTS
A. Cosrs
3.1   The total cost of the program is US$537 million. This figure is based on the part of
the Government's program for which there is agreed funding from domestic and foreign
sources. As such, the numbers will be continuously revised to reflect on-going implementa-
tion experience. IDA financing is US$56 million. No allowance is made for contingencies as
the number and size of activities funded would be revised to fit within the existing financing
framework. The nominal exchange rate is assumed to adjust during the life of the project so as
to maintain a constant real exchange rate.
3.2    Recurrent Costs and Sustainability. Recurrent cost implications of the project are
an integral part of the program. Government will finance salaries and the maintenance costs
of new equipment purchased, through the MoH budgetary allocation. The budget for recur-
rent costs will be allocated to districts on the basis of a weighted per capita basis. Other run-
ning costs are shared between MoH and ongoing donor-funded projects. The financing will be
structured so that the donor contribution to recurrent costs would be made on a sliding scale
(see also paras. 2.44-2.46).
B. FINANCING
3.3   The total program costs will be   5 Financing Plan
financed as follows: a proposed IDA
credit of US$56 million would cover     "We want to encourage you as our coopera-
about 10% of total project cost (see Table    ting partners to buy into our National Stra-
3). Government would finance from its   tegic Plan. We want your input into the
annual budget about US$340 million      design but then we will discourage parallel
equivalent or 63% of the total, including  vertical programs which operate outside the
all taxes and duties; other donors would  National program that is being designed.
finance the rest through bilateral      We invite you to transcend the temptation
cooperation and co-financing of the IDA  that you take only that which you can idi-
project.                                vidually label: "Made in the Republic of
3.4    A detailed determination of the  Luampungu.
investment items can not be made up     Donor community funding should be seen
front, as this depends on the outcome of  in the context of supplementing the Zam-
the district planning process. A tradition-    bian effort; not the other way round."
al pre-determination of investment items
would make the project unsupportive of  Hon. Deputy Minister, Dr. Kalumba -
the Zambian program based on bottom-up  speech at MoH "Appraisal Workshop",
planning. The crucial role IDA will play  April 1994.
in this program is to ensure that all
agreed, vital elements of the annual plan
are funded to enable health reform implementation.



- 35 -
3.5    As IDA funding would function as a "buffer," the exact mix of domestic, donor and
IDA funding is undetermined at this point. The financing mix will be based upon annual
agreement on the investment plan and recurrent budget. Financing will be structured so that
Zambia assumes an increasing share of the recurrent budget over time, and so that IDA will
not (explicitly or implicitly) finance ineligible expenditures, e.g., land purchases or taxes.
Co-financing will be done on a parallel basis with each donor funding "full contracts" or com-
plete sets of goods that do not depend upon administrative obligations of other donors to com-
plete the procurement. There will be an exception made for recurrent budget support, where
all disbursement, procurement, accounting and auditing rules have been harmonized in accor-
dance with Government procedures acceptable to other donors and IDA.
Table 3 Financing Plan (US$million) 1995-1998
Expenditure Category    ODA   SIDA   DANIDA  Dutch UNICEF    IDA    GRZ          TOTAL
Policy Development       3.0     .2        1.5            .8    1.5                 7.0
Investment & Recurrent
Costs
Infrastructure Rehab.  3.5                                    38.5      2.3      44.3
Medical equipment      1.0               3.0    2.0             4.0     8.0      18.0
Training               3.8    3.1               2.7    1.5    2.0                13.1
Informaton system              4.0              4.0    1.0    0.5                 9.5
District Operabons     9.8    5.0       14.0            2.2    0.5   297.7      329.2
Drugs/supplies                 8.9              4.9    6.0    8.5    32.0        60.3
Technical Assistance   3.7               1.5   47.2    1.7                       54.0
Monitoring/Evaluaton      .1                              .8      .5                1.5
Total                   24.9   21.2       20.0   60.8   14.0   56.0   340.0       536.9
3.6    The large amount of technical assistance (TA) included in the program (funded by the
Netherlands and other bilateral donors), mainly covers foreign doctors employed in Zambia.
As discussed above (para 1.32), the brain drain of trained Zambian medical personnel has led
to serious shortfalls in staffing of health facilities, particularly in rural areas. An important
task under Health Reforms will be to improve the conditions of civil service in Zambia, in
order to attract Zambian doctors back from neighboring countries, and to revise the training
curriculum so as to better match trained cadre to real needs. (For example, the Netherlands is
currently supporting management training of medical doctors, because they had not received
fornal training in this area before receiving their degree.) In the interim, Zambia must rely
on foreign technical assistance for program implementation.
3.7    Also with regard to TA, the HRIT was involved for the first time in interviewing
ODA candidates who had been short-listed for six advisory positions in the Zambian health
sector. This provided an opportunity to clarify job descriptions, expectations and procedures



- 36 -
on the part of both the Government and the donor agency. Some positions will consequently
be re-advertised.
3.8    Funding Gap: Despite numerous revisions to tailor national plans to available
resources, the national strategic health plan continues to face a shortfall of funds in the areas
of infrastructure rehabilitation, medical equipment, training, policy development, and drugs
and supplies. While these gaps will not prevent other areas from being implemented, IDA
will endeavor to help the Government find additional funding in these areas.
C. PROCUREMENT
Table 4 Procurement Arrangements (US$ million)
Proeect element        ICB         LCB       Other       NFA        Total
Civil Works            32.0         5.5        3.0         3.1       43.6
(30.0)      (5.0)      (3.0)       (-.-)     (38.0)
Equipment               3.8         0.4        0.7       23.3        28.2
(3.6)      (0.4)      (0.5)       (-.-)      (4.5)
Consultants              -.-        -.-        2.5        62.3       64.8
(2.5)       (-.-)     (2.5)
Drugs                   6.5         -.-        2.0        51.8       60.3
(6.5)                  (2.0)                  (8.5)
Training                 -.-                   2.3        11.1       13.4
(2.3)       (-.-)     (2.3)
Recurrent costs          -.-        -.-        0.2       326.4      326.6
(0.2)       (-.-)     (0.2)
Total                  42.3         5.9       10.7       478.0      536.9
(40.1)      (5.4)     (10.5)       (-.-)     (56.0)
ICB: International competitive bidding
LCB: Local competitive bidding
NFA: Not financed by the Association (IDA)
N.B. Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by IDA
3.9    This project is undetermined for procurement purposes; the exact mix of goods and
services to be financed by the Credit will depend on the results of the bottom-up planning
process that will be reflected in the annually agreed program. Procurement will be carried out
in accordance with IDA guidelines. District Health and Hospital Boards are responsible for
procurement of goods, services and civil works with support for bulk procurement from the
center.  Implementation staff have been trained in IDA procurement procedures and will
receive continued guidance from the World Bank's Southern Africa Departmental Procurement
Unit throughout the life of the project. The MoH will be able to assist District Boards with
procurement matters on a case by case basis.



- 37 -
3.10   Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4. Intemational Competitive
Bidding (ICB) will be carried out in accordance with IDA guidelines for contracts with a cost
of $500,000 or more for civil works and for contracts with an estimated cost of $100,000 or
more for goods. Domestic preference will be employed where applicable in these procure-
ments as per IDA guidelines. ICB is likely to be used for construction of new health centers
and major rehabilitation of hospitals, as well as for purchase of equipment, medical supplies
and drugs.
3.11   Local competitive bidding, following procedures acceptable to IDA, will be carried
out for contracts with a cost of less than US$500,000 for civil works and less than
US$100,000 for goods. This category is not expected to exceed US$5.9 million total during
the life of the project. The civil works to be carried out by this process will be upgrading and
major rehabilitation of rural health centers. They are scattered and small in nature and are not
likely to attract international interest.
3.12   Prudent local shopping, obtaining at least three quotes from reliable suppliers or
contractors may be used for contracts with an estimated value of less than US$50,000
equivalent for civil works and less than US$30,000 for goods. Items procured under local
shopping is not expected to exceed a total amount of US$3 million for civil works and
US$700,000 for goods during the life of the project. This procedure has already been used
effectively in Zambia by the Social Recovery Project in the case of small-scale community-
based civil works. Items procured under this rule are likely mainly to be small-scale rural
health center rehabilitation for civil works and supplies and tools for the same under goods.
As far as possible contracts for supplies and equipment will be pooled and carried out by the
MoH to ensure cost savings. For the infrastructure community contribution and involvement
would be encouraged. To ensure that this takes place communities must manage the projects
and be able to purchase both services of skilled laborers and materials locally with minimal
delay. Experience in Zambia has shown that it is not cost-effective to do bulk procurement of
butilding supplies and then distribute these to sites. Urban health centers and some hospitals
are likely to need an emergency supply of drugs in 1995, while the ICB process for drugs is
under way. These are proposed to be purchased under "other' procurement procedures
(estimated at US$2.0 million), to be procured from UNICEF.
3.13   Other items not subjected to competitive bidding include staff salaries and per diem,
fuel, and other administrative expenses, not to exceed a total of US$200,000 during the life of
the project.
3.14   Consultant services and training will be procured following IDA guidelines. It is esti-
mated that IDA will finance consultant services for a total cost of US$4.8 million mainly for
assistance with procurement and supervision of civil works implementation and for in-country
training programs.
3.15   Tender documentation format. IDA's standard bidding documents will be used for
all ICB financed by the credit. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by IDA, documents based on accepted international standard forms will be used. For
LCB the Government will prepare standard documentation for IDA review based on IDA's
standard bidding documents for small civil works and other standard IDA documents.
3.16   Procurement Review Thresholds. During project supervision, bidding packages for
IDA financed contracts above thresholds of US$250,000 for works and US$100,000 for goods



- 38 -
Table 5: Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit (US $ million)
Disbursement Category                IDA           % of Expenditure Financed
Allocation
(US$ million)
1. Civil Works
a) District Health Facilities  28.0        100% of foreign expenditures, and
b) Others (provincial/central level) 6.0  90% of local expenditures
2. Equip. Vehicles, Drugs & Supplies   11.0       100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of ex-factory local expendi-
tures and 90% of local expenditures
for other itemns procured locally
3. Consultant Services/Studies        3.0        100% of total expenditures
Audit and Training
4. Incremental Recurrent
Cost                           0.2         100% of total expenditures
5  Refinancing of PPF                 1.5
6. Unallocated                        6.3
TOTAL                                56.0
'includes administrative and running costs of districts and the HRIT such as staff salaries,
per diems, travel costs, office supplies, fuel, equipment maintenance costs and other
administrative expenses.
would be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. This review would cover all contracts
procured by ICB and about 75% of the total value of contracts funded by IDA. For LCB the
focus of the review would be on the bid evaluation and award procedure. The threshold for
prior review of consultant services would be US$100,000 for contracts with consulting firms,
US$50,000 for contracts with individuals and all sole-source contracts and terms of reference
regardless of contract value. All other contracts will be subject to selective post review. The
executing agencies will be required to maintain proper records for easy review by IDA. It is
expected that one in five LCB contracts for works and one in six LCB contracts for goods will
be subject to post award review. Prior review arrangements will be reviewed six months after
credit effectiveness.
D. DISBRSmENS
3.17   It is estimated that the IDA credit will be disbursed over a period of 6 years, from
1995 through the year 2000, with procurement and disbursements completed by June 30, 2000
(completion date) and December 31, 2000 (closing date), respectively. The proposed
allocation of the credit is shown in Table 5. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the
credit will be fully documented, except for expenditures for training, recurrent costs, and for



- 39 -
contracts with a value of US$100,000 or less for goods and services and a value of
US$250,000 or less for civil works which reimbursement may be made against certified
statements of expenditure (SOE).
3.18   A special account for US$3 million would be made available to the Project/MoH for
payments of eligible expenditures. To facilitate payments at the district level, an advance from
the Special Account not exceeding US$10,000 equivalent per district may be made to the 61
districts' accounts. Documentation pertaining to the districts' accounts would be retained by
MoH who will conduct regular audits of those accounts and will replenish the accounts only
when satisfied with the documentation submitted. Replenishment to the Special Account would
be submitted to IDA every month under normal circumstances but no later than every three
months. Withdrawal applications for direct payment from the Credit Account may be
submitted for expenditures above US$100,000 equivalent. Supporting documentation will be
retained by the Ministry of Health and will be available for review as requested by IDA
supervision missions and project auditors. Estimated disbursements by IDA fiscal year are
shown in Table 6.
Table 6 Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit (US$ Million)
FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99   FY00   FY01
Annual          2.2     5.4    11.2   22.4    11.2      2.8    1.1
Cumulative      2.2     7.3    18.5   40.9    52.1    54.9      56
4%     13%     33%     73%     93%     98%   100%
E. AccouNTs AND AuDrr
3.19   As soon as possible after the end of the financial year, but no later than nine months
after its completion, the Government will present audit reports of the special account and the
project accounts with a special opinion on the use of the special account and SOEs. The audits
will be carried out by an independent auditing firm with qualifications and under terms of
reference acceptable to IDA. In auditing the project accounts, the auditors will pay special
attention to verifying the reliability of SOEs, and to the internal controls and procedures
involved in the preparation of SOEs. The costs of the audits are eligible for financing out of
the proceeds of the credit. One audit report should deal with all accounts, SOE's and other
matters requiring audit opinions.
3.20   Project accounts will be established and maintained by the MoH. A Special Account
will be opened for this project and maintained with a commercial bank by the MoH. The
maximum balance in the Special Account will be US$3 million, which will cover about 3
months of expenditures.



- 40 -
3.21   A joint donor review of accounting and reporting procedures has been carried out.
Based on this the Government will present revised procedures, according to an action plan
acceptable to IDA and the donors.
3.22   Audit. The Government's performance in auditing project accounts under projects in
Zambia has generally been acceptable and the Government is in full compliance on other
social sector projects. The quality of the audits has also been satisfactory.



- 41 -
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. PROJECT BENEFTTS
4.1   The benefits of the project would
be the benefits of the health reform pro-  6 Benefits
gram. The benefit would ultimately be
improved and sustainable health status of  The health of a Zambian child who now
the Zambian population (as measured by   dies from immunizable diseases, the health
longer-run outcome measures such as     of the Zambian mother whose death rate is
infant mortality or adult morbidity). This  a national scandal, the AIDS tragedy, all
will be accomplished by mobilizing exis-  these if we overcome them must be the
ting capacity to improve service delivery  pride of all the taxpayers in all the
(as measured by output and unit cost indi-    countries from whence our core partners
cators, such as coverage rates for ante-  come.
natal care, immunizations, growth moni-
toring and family planning, and quality of
care indicators), and through improved
institutional set-ups and procedures (as measured by process and input indicators, such as
amount of drugs and supplies entering the system, clinics rehabilitated, degree of budgetary
autonomy of the health boards and number of staff trained). Monitoring will be done using
beneficiary assessments, review of administrative records, household and facility surveys and
periodic technical audits. The annual reports (para 5.4) would be the central place for sum-
marizing and reviewing the likely sustainable impact of the project.
B. PROJECT RISKS
4.2   The Zambian Government could conceivably abandon the entire structural reform
process. This risk is being minimized through adjustment lending that includes commitments
to immediate and visible positive results in terms of reforms in social service delivery systems
such as those supported by the recently approved Economic and Social Adjustment Credit.
The overall program in Zambia is risky, as discussed in the Country Assistance Strategy ap-
proved by the Board on March 10, 1994, but the type of reforms supported by this Project
would help lower the risk of the program falling apart by building capacity in Government and
lowering the unit costs of service provision, generating additional revenue, and thus alleviating
the pressure on the national budget. This Project would help support macroeconomic reforms
by improving service delivery within a core public expenditure item.
4.3    Another potential risk would be internal political change. Such change has already
been weathered during the project preparation process. The broad-based support and momen-
tum for health reforms, both within the MoH and in districts across the country, would make
it difficult for a different government or a different minister to annul what is already in the
pipeline.
4.4    Within the Strategic Plan, the precipitated introduction of cost recovery could poten-
tially derail health reforms. Sustainability of the reforms could be put at risk by ad-hoc
implementation of cost recovery schemes, in isolation from quality improvements in health
services, as perceived by Zambian clients. Resentment of new financial burdens without com-
mensurate exchange of service value could undermine public support for the entire reform



- 42 -
process. An acceptable health financing plan that minimizes this risk has been agreed upon
and forms an integral part of the Strategic Plan.
4.5    There is also a risk that implementation of the Strategic Plan will be stalled on process
issues, with little positive impact on the health care services nor for the targeted beneficiaries.
Beneficiary assessment and local information systems will be used to monitor change, and
their results will be part of the annual review and planning process. Lack of progress in
improving monitorable indicators would need to be addressed in an acceptable manner within
the next year's plan of action.
4.6   In some respects, it might be easier for the MoH to continue to shape the health sys-
tem on the basis of indicative donor interests, instead of defending its comprehensive strategy,
and the funding of necessary but less popular aspects. Furthermore, donors may provide aid
with conditions that are not compatible with the agreed Strategic Plan for the health sector. It
should be acknowledged the proposed sectoral support approach is new, and donors may be
initially uncomfortable with some aspects, particularly as this approach is not yet a proven
success, and because it requires donors to also modify certain procedures for providing assis-
tance. To minimize such risks, continued dialogue with donor agencies, both one-on-one and
as a group, will be an essential part of program management and of IDA implementation
support (see Annex 6 for a supervision schedule).



- 43 -
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. CONDITIONS
5.1    During negotiations, the Government's agreement to the following conditions has been
obtained:
5.2    As a condition of effectiveness: the Government will demonstrate to the satisfaction of
IDA that the Investment Program and the budget for the health sector for 1995 are fully
financed (para. 2.39).
5.3    As a condition of disbursement for civil works: (1) for District level facilities, the
Government will have presented standard architectural designs for such facilities. acceptable to
IDA; and (2) for other (central and regional) facilities, the equivalent of US$10 million for
District level facilities will have been disbursed from the Credit (para 2.23).
B. OTHER AGREEMENTS
5.4   To ensure smooth implementation of the project, the Government has agreed to:
(a)   implement the reform and investment program according to the Strategic Plan
and investment program and budget (paras. 1.14-1:16, 2.7 and 2.43);
(b)    designate the Planning and Management Unit as the responsible agency for
implementation of the program and of the IDA credit in support thereof (para.
2.40);
(c)    carry out all procurement (i) using standard bidding and contract documents
for the project and (ii) according to the arrangements laid out in paras. 3.10 to
3.17;
(d)    prior to October 1 of every year (beginning in 1995), submit to IDA and
donors for review and comments a revised Strategic Plan, the subsequent
year's budget, investment program and work, training and procurement plan
(para 2.39);
(e)    prior to May 1 of every year (beginning in 1996), present a progress report
(para. 2.38) on implementation of the Program (as outlined in Annex 4);
(f)    adopt Project reporting, auditing and monitoring procedures acceptable to IDA
and prepare and submit in a timely manner financial reports and external
audits no later than nine months after the end of the financial year (paras. 3.20
- 3.22); and
(g)    ensure that national Program Managers, District Health Boards and Hospital
Management Boards carry out their mandated responsibilities as agreed with
IDA (paras. 2.11 - 2.14).
C. RECOMMENDATION
5.5    On the basis of the above actions, conditions and agreements, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 37.7 million (US$56 million equivalent).



- 44 -
ANNEX I
Page I of 2
ZAMBLA BASIC DATA AND LEADING HEALTH CONCERNS
PARAMETER                        ||  PROPORTION         NUMBER J
TOTAL POPULATION                             100%       8,613,314*
RURAL POPULATION                              58%        4,995,722
URBAN POPULATION                              42%        3,617,592
POPULATION GROWTH RATE                      3.28% |           -
POPULATION       0-12 MONTHS                3.99%         343,671
DISTRIBUTION
1- 5 YEARS                16.27%       1,401,386
5-14 YEARS                28.50%       2,454,794
15+ YEARS                51.24%        4,413,462
WOMEN, CHILD               22.1 %      1,903,542
BEARING AGE
NUMBER OF PROVINCES                                             9
NUMBER OF DISTRICTS                                            61
* 1993 projection based on 1990 census



- 45 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
LEADING HEALTH CONCERNS
Life expectancy at birth: Women have a life expectancy of 57.5 years, and men of 55.4
years.
Infant mortality: The IMR was reported as 90 per 1000 live births in 1986, but the
Demographic and Health Survey shows a rise to 107/1000 in 1992, and UNICEF reports
113/1000 for the same year. (Antenatal care: 92% of births were preceded by at least one
antenatal care visit.)
Maternal mortality: Health facilities report 200 deaths per 100,000 institutional deliveries.
Malnutrition of children under five: 40% are stunted (inadequate height for age)
Attributed cause for 41 % of child hospital deaths
Incidence of stunting among children under five years of age (source: ZDHS, 1992): Low
height for age (an indication of chronic malnutrition) has been reported at 46% in rural and
33 % in urban children.
Geographical access to health facilities: 75% of the total population, but only 50% of those
living in rural areas reside within a 12 km radius of a health facility.
Total fertility rate: A Zambian woman today will bear on average 6.5 children.
Contraceptive prevalence: 15% of married women use a modem form of contraception
Iodine Deficiency: Localized surveys of student populations have reported 47% and 82%
goiter prevalence. As goiters are an indication of severe iodine deficiency, the prevalence of
unrecognized deficiency -- which can impair reproduction, physical and mental development --
is even higher.
Malaria: The incidence of malaria increased from 138 per 1000 in 1978 to 287 in 1988. The
hospital case fatality for malaria increased from 14 per 1000 in (1978) to 25 in 1988.
HIV/AIDS: In 1992 there were 26,625 reported cases of AIDS and ARC. Recent surveys
have found that within a sample of peri-urban antenatal care seekers 28% were HIV positive,
and of peri-urban STI clinic attenders 58% were HIV positive.
Tuberculosis: New cases of TB increased from 7,909 in 1986 to 16,863 in 1990. 72% of all
new TB patients in 1992 tested positive for HIV.
Cholera: Cases rose from under 2,000 in 1978 to 12,000 in 1991.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH HQ ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
j  Minister o Health
D/Minister d Health
i                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Seeay
4-
Plarviing,    l        Health Reform              Basi Health            u ep. Permi. Sew  |        Medical Care             Pbamacutical
Manag     t             Imlemntation                Progamrne                 (COlpaat                  Senvic                    Mecical
Mann                                ~~~~~~~~Suplies Dp
Human Resource                                     Erwomvmental 
Devemna   t              Capa -bulking             Health                    Logistics S4             Oral Health               Pmcurement
Monitoring &              Training                 Farmiy HealhPop.          Facilities               Clinical Care (imd.       DisWibution
N             ~~~Evaluabon___
Rehabilitation)
Socil Health &             Pe oNn                    Diagnostic
Health Pnomoin _
Audit                    Nursing
z
A/C                                                                            Z



Firt Year Implentatlon Plan DRAFT e of 6 October 1994
tr 4. 1994     Cktr 1. 1995     tr 2. 1996     Otr 3 1996        tr 4 1996     Otr 1, 199      at
ID    Name                                                  Oct Nov |De   Jan  Feb |Mar Apr |M    Jun  Jul  Aug Sp  Oct |Nov  O     Jon  Feb |Mar Apr
1    Human Raaource Davelopmant                                                                                  -               -
2        Place and orient now contral level HRD ataff                 1/2             2/28
3        Provide tchnircal asiatance to developmnwt of central                  3/1                                                  11130
level capacity in HRD
4        Based on new stndarda of creo define national staff                                    b/1                                        12131
profile for MOH
5        Produce new personnel guidelines                             1/1                  3131
6        Draft new gnreral ordera together with diatricta                                                  8/1                             12/31
7        Identify and train Provincial-level HRD Managera             112                                  6/30
8        Develop job deacnptione for al MOH position       i                     3/3                                  8/3
9        Have diatriict adopt job descriptiona to own settings                                        7/3                  9/30
nd acquire central approval
10        Appoint HRD Officer for each district & estabslh                       3/1                                          lolls
edistrict-laval ytawm  for humnan resource nmanagemnt
v ~~~~Pro>et:                                   Ctideol           _Progr                                    Sunwryrr  
l ~~~Date 10/8/94                            Noneritie   o    l         t oono                           Roll d Llp  
cm
Pe"iI



First Year  wImpntodon Plan DItAFT as of 6 October 1994
Otr4 1994       Qtr1, 1s"6      aU2.1996        Oti3. 1996      Otr4. 1996      Otr 1. l096     ot
ID    Nam                                                    Ot Nov  Doc  Jan  Feb  MaprJul  A    S    Oct Nov  Dec  Jan |Fb  Mar  Apr
1        Appoint personnel to now positions dofined for eontril.                                       7/3   _   7/31
provincial and hospital positions
12        R"*iw draft Perfornance Appraisal System from                                             6116        7/15
cdinet and adapt for MOH
13        Train Provincial staff in performane appraoisa stem                                                       /1 |       /20
14       Introduce now supervisory systems                                                                         911        MI30
15        Districts define tota steff requiromento and training                                               8/2       8/30
neds in budget
l6        Establish centralized databas Irecord sotem for                                                                    11/1             12/31
personnel data)
17        Revse nmedical nd nursing acts to support now job             112                                                                   12/31
descrptions
18       Implement refreshr courses for staff at ON hevWs                    2/1                                                              12/31
imp_ement study on training options                                                              61                                     121
20        Reviw curricuoa at aN training institutions       j/1                                                                               12/29
prolect-                            Crito ical  __MOMM             Progress       g              Summa r
Dow 10/e/94                         Nonidca                                                      Ftono   Rd Up Oe
Ps" 2o



Firft Year Implerentation Plan DRAFT az of 6 October 1994
Qtr4. 1994       Qtr.1 996     Otr2.1995      COtr3, 1996      Otr4 1995       Ot 1,1996       O t
ID    Name                                                  Oct Nov  Dec  Jan  Feb  Mar Apr May Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct Nov  Dec  Jan  Feb  Mar Apr
21        Criteria for recruitment, placewmnt and selection for                                                                            12/31
training
22       Propose action in response to gender informnaton              1/1                                   _    l  8/31
acqured in personnel survey. and budget to Impement
response in '96.
23       Cspecity building for provincec in new roles of                               4/3                 6/30
supporting diatricts
24   Drugs and Supplies                                                                          -
25        Finalize the new drug policy which supports Strategc         1/2                 3/31
Plan
26        Finalize new stendards for drug requirements base on         1/2 W6/30
defined package of care
27       Define options or decentralized budgeting.                              3/1                            7131
procurement, distribution and financing of drugs end
nedica supplies
28   Equipment nd Transport                                           VI
29       Define..o cm ded quiptnent rn inten nce respondbiNties        112     _      2/28
and guidelines for contracting outside maintenance
services          .
30        Define vehicle maintenance responsibilitis end               1/2            2/28
guideines for contracting outside maintenance services
I
Date: 10/6194                      Nnreltotn                                                    tldU 
Pes3                                                                                    o



First Year kImplntdion Plan DRAFT a of 8 October 1994
Ctr 4. 1394    O                  2t. 1996   tt2. 199  Otr 3, 1995  Otr 4. 1996  atr 1. 1996  Ot
ID    Naern                                               Oct Nov I De  Jon I Fab  M      r             Jul  Aug Sp  Oct Nov Doc  Jon  Feb  Mr Apr
31       Findlizo standardization guidelines for purchase of    12)15       1/15
mndical equipment                                            
32       Finalize standardizetion guidelines for purchase of    12/15      il15
vehicle
33       Fialize Huts of equipmnt noeds booed on new                 1/1       1/31
roqtirements and '94 inventory of that available
34       Finalize Nhte of vehcle needs based on new                  1/2  1/31
requiremnts end '94 inventory of that available
35       Produce guiddines for reqistioning/procuremsnt.        12/15            2)11
distribution, use nd rJdposal of rmecal equipment.
veNhicls nd connunricatons equipment
36       Train cistrictc in guidelines for                                 2
requittioning/procureent, distribution, use nd                   2/13 e  2/17
disposal of medica equipment, vhides end
_____      ornrnunications equipment
37       Initiato tendering proce  and procure medical                         311                      6/30
equipmewnt
38      InitiHto tetndring process and procure vehicies                          330                   8/30
39       Initiato tendering process and procure commrunications           2/1                 430
equipnwnt
40   Infrastructur,                                                                                           -
Date: 10/6/94                     Nonrihkal                     Wlestone         *            c4  d Up O
Pg 4 4



First Year Implementation Plan DRAFT ms of 6 October 1994
Ctr4 1994       atri. 1996      cm I, 1996     COtr 3. 1995      Ctr 4. 1996      kt 1 1996       0t_
ID    Name                                                   Oct Nov  Dec  Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct Nov  Dec  Jan  Feb  Mar Apr
41        Agree on new norma and atandards li.e.. achitectural           1/2    1/15
dasigns)
42        District based *aaaaaaent of needs for                         1/1    1/13
construction/rehablitation
43        Provision of detailed guidelinee on Implementing col           1/2        1/31
works to districts
44        Define complata civi worka irnplementation plan for
1995 Iselection of facilities for renovation/constructlon)
_      _   _   _   _ ~~~~     _          ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I              
45        Tendering and procurement process for 1995                       1116             3/15
construction
46        Rehabilitation/construction of hkalth centera. dlitrict                        4/3                                                    12/31
hospitals and staff houses
47    Management                                                    -               -               m                -               -
48        Distribution to diatricts of guidelines nd National Health           2/1            3/31
Services Act for selection/delction of DHM Mambers
49        Orientation workshop fo DHMTa end Provincial steff on          1/2                  3/31
new norms and standards in Strategic Pln, and
introduction to process of defining packages of care
I
50        Work with districts and hospital boards to define their              2/1     _/30
own packages and acquira approval
I>
Project:                            Crkide         _               Progrees                       Sunrr  w                                                                  r
Date: 10/8/94                        Noncriteid                     Mhs tone                      Rolled Up  0   
Ft,
a
co



First Yer Inplementaion Plan DRAFT * of 6 October 1994
Otr4. 1994       aIr 1. 1996      Oir 2. 1996     CQtr3. 1396       Ctr 4. 1996      05tr1.1996        GI
ID    Name                                                       Oct  Nov  | Dec  Jan  | Feb  Mar  Apr May  Jun   Jul  | Aug        | SoP Oct |  Oct Nov  Doe     Mar 
51        Introduco planningibudgeting based on essential
packages of car0
52        DHMTc and Hosp/td Boards aubmit proposals for '96
budgot. based on approved packagges of cars
53        Devolve power and authorty to hire and fire to                     1/1                                                                       12/29
provincal and central hospitals
54        District  Aubrnit proposals for phasng mew            1110/4
arrangement of facRitios for delivering packages of care
(addfrssing required nunber of hosphds/hospital beds,
health contors and health posts)
55         Croation of dbstrict health posts of Directors and                                                   M                                       12/31
Deputies, and appointnmnts to the position.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
56        Soak cabinet approva and irnplment the proposed                    1/2                                                                        12131
organizational structura for roles of center, provincil 
ard district.
57        Quartytiy updato mneting tor local raprenttives of                            3/1    3/3
dornofs
58         Review  tnd update national strategic plan and                            8/1
invwstrnnt program
59        Inement pilot compenstidon schm  bad on                                  2/1                                                                  12/31
performane
60          rtepare an annual workplan, training. procurement *rd                                                    8/1                 10/15
recurrent budgot for '96 wnd ditributo to donors
Pro,Pct:                              Crhied   MM         o      g         ror            ttSurfnme                                                                                     MsX
Dote: 10tdt94                          Noncridc           l            Mlb onFow  *  ddUp   O 0
00
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pg 6 



First Year rmplentation Plan DRAFT * of 6 October 1994
IOtr 4, 1994   Ot 1. 1996      ptr 2. 199      CS  1995          Oet |4. 1995 e Ot 1. 1996    Ot_
ID    Name                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oct Nov  Dec  Jan  Feb  MarApMa  JunJu AgS        OcNo DcJa Fe   MarAp
61        Review '96 budget, address Irmplemntation lsues.                                                               125 U 10130
update dmetable and performnnce indicators with
donors
62   Confirm new organizatIonal etructure for work done on basic            2/1       2/28
health programwes: consolideting IEC activities, end
irmproving coordinating on logistics and monitorin/evdluatlon
with responsible units.                                                     _
63   Finance                                                                                     --
64        Approv, by cabinet of now health care financing policy       1/2                 3/31
whch address criteria for goverrwnent financing and
general guidelines for hmplementing cost sharing and
cost-recovery schemes.
65       Introduce phased in cost shaing/cost-recovery sche                           41                                                   12/29
based on financing policy
66        Present tchnileMV and poiticaly defendable criteria for                311       3/31
resource allocation
67        Introduce complete cost recovery at UTH for health                               5/1                                             12/31
care services not covered by governnent-financed
package of care
68   Finance group subrmits proposal on allocations of budets fot i 10/4
secondery care leg., districts nwut contract referral
services from Provincial HospitWel
69   Monitoring nd Evaluetion                                                                                    _
70        Provide orientation to the new M&E Unit on the                                         -                                    12/1
indicators which hav bean defirnd for *eaeseing
irnplementation of Strategic Plan
Pro*ct:                            Critlcd            5.9                                                                                                            (DX
Date: 10/lt94                      Noncrtia                                                    Flownu                        *         R-d Up.)o 
0
Page 7                                                                                 0



First Year Implementedon Pion DRAFT as of 6 october 1994
Otr4 1994      0t1. 1996       (k Or2 1996    0 Q3. 1991      Otr4, 1996 5    Otr11996        _t
ID    Nane                                                 Oct Nov Doc  Jan  Feb  Mar Apr           Jun  JUI Aug Sap  Oct I Nov Dec  Jan  Feb  Mar Apr
71        M&E Unit Iwith T.A.) proposes sytem  which wi be                                                                          12/1
used to track indicators fincorpordting  ddsting
database and date collection processeea
72       M&E Unit works with HRIT and Finsnancial Accounting  g                                                           1013
Unit to propose format for Annual Report
73       Review indicators currentldy royed, and refine   i
indicators to be used by districts and hospital boards                                                          1013
together with DHMTs and boords.
74       Conduct basaline assesmernt of dN MOH staff Isurvey,                                                             10/3
conmpile date, analyze and draw conclusions incuding
gender breakdown and imnlicationsa
75       QuarterlV update neeting for local repr-eentetive of                                                      I   10
donors
76        Quarterly update meeting for local repreentetivv  of                                                  9/1  9/3
donorsI
77       Quarefey update meting for local r presentatives of                         212e
79       Intro, new common reporting, auditing and ccounting   j                     2/29
system for donors and GRZ
79       Prepare annua report for '94                                           3/1 M     F        4/28
80        Audit reports from districts for 94                   12/2                       3/31
>
Proect.                             ACr              __Prog                                   Surnwy  o
Dote: 10/6/94                      Noncaritica                   Mhso                         Ptone*Rold Up  <>                                                     co 
P"e 8
co



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
PROPOSED PROGRAM FOR ANNUAL CONSULTATIONS BEl WEEN DONOR
AGENCIES AND THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH, ZAMBIA
As part of its donor coordination efforts, the Ministry of Health proposes to organize one or
two consultations every year to regularly review activities and accomplishments under Health
Reform with its partners (collaborating donor agencies). This will also provide a forum for
donors to coordinate with each other in providing support to the Zambian health sector, and to
make commitments for the following fiscal year.
1.    Review of Previous Year's Activities and Accomplishments in the Health Sector;
Lessons learned from:
-     evidence that the previous year's budgeted investment and recurrent
expenditures took place as envisaged.
-     assessment of district-level capacity in financial management;
-     progress in meeting the agreed output targets in the districts;
-     progress in the number of health centers and other facilities offering the basic
package of services in the country;
-      summary of the beneficiary assessment and other external reviews of the
previous year with a summary of actions proposed and taken to correct any
problems found;
-     progress in implementation of revised policies and logistics systems in areas of
human resources, drugs and supplies, urban primary health care, family plan-
ning, and nutrition;
-      draft audit reports for the boards that have received support in the preceding
year.
2.    Plans and Commitments for Next Year's Activities
-      Future policy direction and next steps in decentralization
-      Basic Program targets and goals
-      Areas for further strengthening of district level capacity
Personnel and Human Resource Development: next steps
-     Training Commitments (subject areas, donor support)
-     Technical Assistance foreseen
-      New issues for operations research
-     Areas for study and evaluation



- 56 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
ZAMBIA: HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Joint Donor Statement
Background
1.    Representatives of the following donor agencies participating in the Ministry of
Health's workshop to review the Strategic Plan for implementation of the health
reforms: British ODA, DANIDA, European Community, Netherlands, SIDA,
UNFPA, UNICEF, WHO and World Bank would like to record the following
findings and viewpoints. The views expressed here reflect our view as participants in
the workshop and may not necessarily reflect the policy views of our agencies or
governments.
2.    The Ministry called the workshop for the week of April 17-22, as the third
phase of a joint Governmentldonor review of the progress and future plans for the
implementation of the health reforms. The process started with a two day briefing by
the Ministry on progress so far, and a presentation of the process used in developing
the Strategic Plan. This was followed by field visits to enable us to compare the
vision with the on-the-ground reality.
Progress and Achievements
3.    We wish to stress our firm commitment to supporting the reforms in
partnership with the people and Government of Zambia. This is based on the very
positive results reached in the field in a very short time. District health staff have
been empowered and are taking charge of the service delivery in their districts,
resulting in improved morale and commitment to better health. We are also very
encouraged by the clear commitment to health reforms shown by the increase in
allocation to health overall in the national budget and the emphasis on key reform
areas within the budget. We wish to congratulate the Government and the Health
Reform Implementation team for this accomplishment.
The Strategic Plan
4.    We share the Ministry's view that the purpose of the Strategic Plan "is to
define the new standards for the reformed Zambian health care system, how they
were derived and how they will be implemented" and we are very encouraged by the
progress made before and during the workshop in operationalizing the document.
5.    The Ministry will soon complete its work on presenting packages of health
care at each level of the new system by adapting its current planning framework. We
are encouraged by the process of development of these basic packages. The process of
defining the basic packages reflects the necessary actions to achieve health reforms
and provides guidance to districts to enable them to prioritize activities and allocate
and manage resources. At the national level the packages will help ensure equity of
access to services and provide a tool for resource mobilization and allocation. We
strongly endorse the idea of making the packages and the strategic plan living



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
documents to reflect and lessons learned from implementation. We look forward to
annual discussions on an updated Strategic Plan.
6.    We are very encouraged by the progress in operationalizing key reform areas
and the development of action plans to refine and develop implementation of the
health reforms. We concur with the action plans and milestones developed this week
and look forward to their inclusion in the strategic plan. The key areas discussed
were:
a.    human resources policy, including training, incentives and
redeployment issues
b.    equipment, communications and vehicles supply and logistics
c.    drugs and medical supplies policy
d.    infrastructure development priorities, strategies and criteria
e.    management and support activities, including management information
and new roles and responsibilities within the center and within the
districts
f.    financing, including allocation criteria and cost sharing measures
g.    accounting, auditing and reporting systems including the need to
consolidate current diverse approaches
h.    monitoring and evaluation
i.    incorporation of gender issues as an integral part of the reform process.
Reform Challenges
7.    We would like to note the following short-run challenges to the reform. There
is a need to:
(a)  -mobilize political and popular understanding and support for the goals
of the health reform and the importance of adhering to the reform
implementation strategies developed;
(b)   demonstrate real improvements in service delivery and impacts on key
health problems of Zambians;
(c)   sustain the current level of government support and continued
reallocations in favor of health reform priorities.



- 58 -                                ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4
(d)    strengthen consultation and par;nership building processes; involving
*especially the community and non-governmental serBice providers:
(e)    prioritize and monitor implementation of the various aspects of reforms
to ensure that the goal of equitv of access are achieved.
Priority actions
8.    To ensure tangible results of the reforms and enhance the credibility of the
health reform process there is a need to take a number of priority, short-run actions.
To this end, consensus needs to be developed on a (limited) number of goals towards
which the health reforms should be operationalized. Key goals, for which there
already is considerable consensus and district level priority and activity include
immunizable diseases, diarrhoea, malaria, ARI, HIV/AIDS, malnutrition and
problems underlying high maternal mortality. To bring about urgently required
reductions in these problems, we propose the following key short-run activities, as
discussed during the workshop:
a.    ensure visible improvements at the health center and district hospital
levels including reliable drug supply, basic rehabilitation of facilities,
formation of local neighborhood committees, and establishment of
reliable outreach activities;
b.    ensure breathing space for districts to implement their priority
programs instead of a continued emphasis on planning and reporting;
c.    confirm DHMT members quickly and establish district health boards;
d.    reformulate and complete final drafting of health financing policy and
clarify existing guidelines to ensure equity of access and rational use of
the referral chain;
e.    redeploy staff into key managerial positions in highly visible areas such
as the major urban centers;
f.    finalize and introduce technical tool kits and implement training
program in their support;
g.    strengthen monitoring systems for the eight critical output indicators
h.    develop uniform accounting, disbursement and reporting formats for
inputs to districts;
i.    establish emergency program for improving incentives for performance
while longer run program is being developed; and



-5 9-                               ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
j.    stren2theni involvement of regional offices in tech1nical and nmanagemenlt
support to districts.
Donor partnership for reform.
9.    We wish to stress our support for the reform process, this support is
manifested in the substantial amounts of money pledged by donor agencies in support
of the activities outlined in the Strategic Plan (in amounts exceeding 150 million
dollars over four years). We are committed to supporting the National Health Policies
and Strategies and the Strategic Plan over the period of its implementation. We are
committed to funding items that appear on the health sector investment program and
recurrent budget for 1995. We look forward to a joint discussion of the
Government's proposal in October 1994. We are also committed to the principle of
ensuring uniform disbursement, accounting, reporting and procurement standards for
our support, and we propose to take the first step towards this by encouraging our
agencies to participate in a joint Government/donor review of current practices in
June of this year.
10.   To ensure continuation of our close partnership in support of the reforms we
strongly encourage the Ministry to convene regular donor meetings possibly on a
quarterly basis. The first meeting would be convened shortly and would determine
the agenda for the future meetings. We suggest the meetings to each address a
separate topic to follow up on the topics discussed in this workshop such as human
resources, financing, supplies and logistics, drug policy, etc.
Siavonga, April 22, 1994
British ODA                       DANIDA                 -'European Cornrniunity
Netherlands
UNICEF_WO 
UNICEF                              WHO             ~i   iBank



- 60 -
ANNEX 6
Page I of 2
SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
Due to the sector reform nature of the Project, supervision missions will be done jointly with
other donor agencies based on progress reports with a common format. Currently the
Ministry is planning to have invite donors for two reviews per year. One in the first half of
the year to review progress during the previous year and present a revised strategic plan, and
one late in the year to present the budget and work program for the following year. It is the
Ministry's intention to collapse these two workshops into one later in the program. This
schedule, however is based on the current thinking, and thus reflects two annual workshops.
Other implementation support will be provided by the Resident Mission and by Bank staff
and consultants on mission to Zambia with other purposes.



- 61 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
Approximate         Activity              Expected Skills      Staff Inputs
Date                                 Required             (in staff weeks)
(Month/Year)
2/95                 Project Launch       Procurement,          10
Mission              disbursement,
health financing,
civil works
5/95                 Strategic Plan       Public Health,        10
review               economics, civil
works, health
information,
nutrition
10/95                1996 budget and      Public Health,         6
work-plan review     economics,
procurement,
nutrition
5/96                 Strategic Plan        Public Health,       10
and 1995             economics, civil
inplementation       works, nutrition
review
10/96                1997 budget and      Public Health,         6
work-plan review     economics,
procurement
5/97                 Strategic Plan        Public Health,       10
and 1996             economics, civil
implementation       works, nutrition
review
10/97                1998 budget and      Public Health,         6
work-plan review     economics,
procurement
Cycle continues until end of Project.



-62 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 4
ZAMBIA
HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT
List of Documents in the Project File
General Background Documents:
1. Barbiero, Victor K. , Charlotte Cromer, et al. "HPN Sector Assessment - Zambia" (John
Snow, Inc.,) May 1991
2. Bennett, Sara & Manengu Musambo. "Report on Community Financing and District
Management Strengthening in Zambia" (UNICEF New York), September 1990
3. Carl Bro International A/S. "Feasibility Study of the Different Options for Spinning Off the
ZCCM-Owned Hospitals and Clinics in the Zambian Copperbelt" Executive Summary and
Full Report, Report Commissioned for World Bank, August 1993
4. Centre for Partnership in Development (DIS). "NGOs as Partners in Health Care Zambia, A
Review of Sustainability with special reference to strategies for Norad Support" Oslo,
September 1992
5. Coopers & Lybrand Deloitte, "Report on Disability and Health: The In-Country Development
of Occupational Therapists" January 1991
6. Dahlgren, S., V. Diwan, K, Edwards, "Evaluation of SIDA Health Sector Support to Zambia
1979-1988" Final Report, September 1988
7. Danida & Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Project Document, "Capacity Building", Institutional
Development and Provision of Basic Health Services at District" Area and Community Level
in Zambia
8.             . "Appraisal of the Health Sector Support Programme" (HSSP), Zambia, May
1993
9.             . Project Document "Development of Health Care Quality Assurance System in
Zambia"
10. Euro-Health Group, Zambia Health Sector Study, "Detailed WorkPlans" June 30, 1992
11.              . Zambia Health Sector Study "Physical Infrastructure Rehabilitation and
Construction" Study D, October 1992
\



- 63 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
12.              Zambia Health Sector Study, "Review of the University Teaching Hospital"
Study C, December 1992
13.            . Zambia Health Sector Study, "Review of Population and Family Planning
Activities" Study E, March 1993
14.           . Zambia Health Sector Study, "Technical and Financial Proposal" March 13,
1992
15.-.  Zambia Health Sector Study, "District Planning and Management" Study B,
16. February 1993
17.           . Zambia Health Sector Study, "Management Review of the Ministry of
Health" Study A, March 1993
18. Haddon, Bryan and Carolina Temple-Bird, "Hospital Equipment in Zambia" (Report
Commissioned by ODA, UK), January 10, 1991
19. "Health Reforns in Zambia, Context, Content and Peogress", A paper presented at the WHO
Consultation on Health Reform 9th to 10th December, 1993
20. Heydelberg E. & E. Nangawe, "Northern Province PHC Identification Mission" February 18/
March 3, 1992
21. International Labour Office, "Report to the Government on the Feasibility of the Introduction
of a National Health Insurance Fund" Geneva, 1992
22. Kalinda, Beatrice & M. Floro, "Zambia in the 1980s: A Review of National and Urban Level
Economic Reforms" World Bank Urban Development Division, Working Paper, October 1992
23. Kalumba Katele, E. Nangawe, et al. "Beyond our own interests: Zambia's Health System
Reform Agenda ihto the Next Century"
24. Key Note Speech made by Honourable Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Katele Kalumba at the
Official opening of the Appraisal workshop for the National Strategic Health Plan Manchinchi
Bay Lodge - Siavonga on 18th April, 1994
25. Ministerial Statement by Hon. M. Sata MP, Minister of Health to the National Assembly on
the occasion of Presenting the Ministry's 1994 Budget, Theme: Building Public Commitment
for Reform
26. Ministry of Health, Provincial PHC Secretariat Western Province, "Progress Report" Primary
Health Care Programme Westem Province, April - September 1992



-64 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 4
27. Ministry of Health, Republic of Zambia, "National Strategic Health Plan (Investment Plan)
1995-1999, March 1994
28.             . "Corporate Plan for implementing National Health Policies and Strategies"
(Draft), July 1992
29.          .   "National Health Policies, and Strategies (Health Reforms), October 1992
30.            . "Quality Assurance Workshop Report" ( 25-28 February 1993), Lusaka
31.              "The Public Health Act" (Laws, Volume XI Cap 535)
32.            . Planning Department and Group 5 Consulting Engineers, "Project Proposal
for the Improvement of the Health Infiatructure in Zambia" June 1993
33.            . Planning Unit to Proposal, "Swedish International Development Authority
(SIDA)" Health Sector Support Programme (HSSP) 1993-94, October 23, 1992
34. Ojermark, Melinda, "RuralUrban Differentials in Health in Zambia" A Review and Analysis
of Existing Data Sources, April 1992
35. Performance Associates, Inc., "Operations Survey of the University Teaching Hospital"
Lusaka, 1990
36. Pragma Corporation, "Zambia Health Sector Study Proposal" March 16, 1992
37. Seshamani, Venkatesh, Oliver S. Saasa, Ganapati J. Bhat, et al., Zambia, "Constraints to
Social Service Delivery", May 1993
38. University of Zambia & Central Statistical Office, "Zambia Demographic and Health Survey
1992"
39. University Teaching Hospital Rehabilitation Project, Feasibility Report, Vol. 1
Nutrition
40. Bailey K. V., 'National IDD Control Programme"(Review Mission), Lusaka, August 2, 1991
41. Central Statistics Office and UNICEF, "Drought Impact Monitoring System in Zambia"
Report of a Pilot Survey in Kalomo, Luangwa and Senanga Districts, June 1992
42. Kaite, Chongo, "Progress Report on the Analysis of HouseHold Food Security and Nutrition"
National Food and Nutrition Commission, March 1993
43. Kavishe, Festo and T. Greiner, "Report on the Review of the Activities of the Zambian
National Food and Nutrition Commission" August 1-14, 1992



-65 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
44. Price Waterhouse, Zambia Food Coupon Program Review, Jan. 1989 - Dec. 1990 (Report
commissioned by USAID)
45. Project Document, National Food and Nutrition Commission Draft Copy 01.11.93
46. Zambia Food Security Report (Draft 1), March 12, 1993
Urban Health
47. Better Health in Lusaka, "A Challenge to Urban PHC and UTH", Progress Report, January
28- February 9, 1993 (Joint GRZ/World Bank Follow-up Mission or Urban Health w/the
Lusaka Urban Health Task Force)
48. Lusaka Urban Health Task Force Report, 1993, to the Permanent Secretary Ministry of
Health, Zambia
49. Euro Health Group, Demnark, "Better Health in Lusaka" Follow up Mission on Urban Health,
May 25 to June 10, 1993, Final Version
30. Medina, Martha, Euro Health Group, "Better Health in Lusaka", Follow up Mission on Urban
Health, October 12 to November 11, 1993
5 1. Roedde, Gretchen, Euro Health Group, "Better Health in Lusaka", Follow up Mission on
Urban Health, September 9-21, 1993



