Report No. PID1084
Project Name                     Zambia-Health Sector Project (@)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Health, Population and Nutrition
Project ID                       ZMPA3239
Borrower                         Government of the Republic of Zambia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Health
Attn: Dr. K. L. Buyala
Permanent       Secretary
Woodgate House, Cairo Road
P.O. Box 31205
Lusaka, Zambia
Tel: (260) (1) 222048/Fax: (260) (1) 223435
Contact for contractors          Ms. Esther Ngoi Mulenga, Donor Coordinator,
Ministry of Health
PO. Box 32588,
Ndeke House, Lusaka, Zambia,
Tel (260) (1) 254427/Fax: (260) (1) 253173
Date of this PID                 October 11, 1998
Appraisal Date                   April 1994
Board Approval                   November 15, 1994
1.   Background. A key area of concern of Zambia's adjustment program and in
the Government's overall development strategy as stated in the Policy
Framework Paper is the rehabilitation and reform of social service delivery.
As with all social sectors the health sector has suffered severe cutbacks in
funding during the economic crisis of the
1980s. Existing infrastructure is severely dilapidated. Health status seems
to be deteriorating, as indicated by rising infant mortality and malnutrition
rates between
1980 and 1990; maternal mortality rates are also unacceptably high. The health
sector has suffered from excessive centralization and irregular availability
of funds at points of service. The Nutrition sub-sector lacks strategic
focus, and suffers from lack of
coordination and a cohesive institutional "home".
2.   Government has initiated the application of innovative and wide-ranging
health care reforms whose basic thrust is to assure the delivery of an
affordable, quality package of health services which includes basic curative
and preventive care, family planning, and nutrition. In August, 1995, The
Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ) passed the National Health Services
Act which established a Central Board of Health (CBoH), District Health Boards
and Hospital Management Boards. The CBoH is responsible for the provision and
production of health services. This includes monitoring and evaluation,
commissioning responsibility for service delivery to district and hospital
boards, and setting standards. The Ministry of Health (MOH) retains
responsibility for policy formulation and resource mobilization. Since August
1993, all districts have received funding for recurrent costs: first on a



pilot basis and financed by donors, then co-financed with Government since
January 1994. Funding is contingent upon the development and approval of
district plans that include monitorable indicators; district management must
also have proven accounting capacity to handle these funds locally.
Substantial consensus and capacity building activities have been and continue
to be undertaken,
by training and involving health staff in districts in the definition and
planning of their own agenda.
3.   Project Objectives.   The project supports the Government's health reform
program with a view to improving access to, and the quality of basic health
services. Fulfilling these objectives will contribute to the social
sustainability of the adjustment program and strengthen the human capital base
necessary for the future growth of Zambia.
4.   Project Description.   The project supports a share of a program prepared
by Government and agreed by all the core donors to the sector. This program is
described in the annually-updated National Health Strategic Plan (NHSP), and
focuses on decentralization of authorities and responsibilities; increasing
the motivation and skills of staff; defining and delivering a package of
essential services to the entire population; distribution reallocating
resources towards cost-effective care; and establishing appropriate,
affordable and sustainable standards for service delivery, infrastructure,
pharmaceuticals, and personnel training, remuneration and distribution.
5.   Project Financing. IDA plays the role of "lender" of last resort", by
supporting those elements of the agreed program for which there is no other
donor funding. IDA will not explicitly finance ineligible expenditures, e.g.,
land purchases, taxes, civil service salaries. To date, this has resulted in
a large proportion of the Credit being allocated to the rehabilitation of
basic infrastructure, and the capitalizing of a centralized revolving fund for
pharmaceuticals and medical supplies. Donor grants or in-kind support has
been preferred for technical assistance, operational research and co-financing
recurrent costs of service delivery with GRZ.
The budget is based upon annual agreement on the Implementation Plan and
Budget. The recurrent costs are intended to be fully financiable by the GRZ
at the conclusion of the program. Investment and interim external financing is
aimed at "retooling" the system into one which can more cost-effectively and
affordably provide basic services. Co-financing is on a parallel basis with
each donor funding "full contracts" (complete sets of goods, that do not
depend upon administrative obligations of other donors to complete the
procurement).
Efforts are being made to harmonize donor, IDA and GRZ requirements for
disbursements, procurements, accounting, auditing and reporting. A draft MOU
was developed in 1997 which describes the aim of this coordination, and
efforts have begun in the co-financing of district grants and the drafting of
joint procurement procedures.
6.   Project Implementation.   The Government, IDA and core donors annually
(Oct/Nov) agree on the implementation process of the reform program, and
review progress jointly (April each year). Each year, the Government presents
its updated National Health Strategic Plan which outlines the framework and
standards for the new system, including: content and cost-effective delivery
-2 -



methods for the basic package; roles and responsibilities of each level of the
system (community, health center, general hospital, district health board,
referral hospitals, regional hospital boards, Central Board of Health and
Ministry of Health); policies for drugs, supplies and human resources. This
plan is annually jointly "appraised". The majority of donors have indicated
their commitment to fund only items included in NHSP.
7.   Project Sustainability.   The project will strengthen the capacity of the
health sector to respond to evolving epidemiological and financial
circumstances, thereby ensuring the development of sustainable services. A
stated aim of reforms is the establishment of a system which the country can
afford to sustain, yet the retooling of the delivery system from the present
inefficient, centralized system requires short-run cost increases.     The GRZ
allocation to the health sector has increased to 13t (8t of GDP), and
intrasectoral allocations evidence the commitment to finance basic care for
all rather than sophisticated care for few (the allocation to district
services has increased to 30- with a stated objective of 60-, and funding for
the central hospital has decreased from 43t to 17h).
The role of nominal fees which have been initiated throughout the public
health care system is explicitly not to recover costs, but to regulate use
(e.g. by-passing primary care facilities) and foster ownership at the
community level.
8.   Environmental Aspects.   The operation has an environmental rating of C
due to the sector reform nature of the credit.
9.   Program Objective Category.   This program forms part of the core poverty
alleviation program of IDA. An integral part of the poverty reduction aspects
of the reform program is the improved efficiency and effectiveness of social
service delivery - and within this the health sector is taking the lead. The
project contains major elements of civil service reform and improved
private/public mix in service delivery. It includes the de-linking of health
professionals from the civil service and allowing Boards authority to hire,
fire and reward performance.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 16, 1998.
- 3 -



