CREDIT NUMBER 2660 ZA
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Sector Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2660 ZA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     1).CA1vt)54 0     , 199 , between the
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Association has received from the Borrower a letter
dated October 20, 1994 describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to implement the Borrower's rolling five-year
health sector strategic plan (hereinafter referred to as the
Strategic Plan) and investment program (hereinafter referred to as
the Investment Program) (the Strategic Plan and the Investment
Program are hereinafter collectively referred to as "the Program")
and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program;
(C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Swedish
International Development Agency (SIDA) a grant (the SIDA Grant) to
assist in financing the Program on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the SIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and SIDA;
(D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Overseas
Development Association (ODA) a grant (the ODA Grant) to assist in
financing the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the ODA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and ODA;
(E)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Danish
International Development Agency (DANIDA) a grant (the DANIDA Grant)
to assist in financing the Program on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the DANIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and DANIDA;
(F)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Netherlands a
grant (the Netherlands Grant) to assist in financing the Program on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Netherlands
Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Netherlands;


﻿-2-
(G)   the Borrower intends to contract from the World Health
Organization (WHO) a grant (the WHO Grant) to assist in financing
the Program on the terms and conditions set for :h in an agreement
(the WHO Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and WHO;
(H)   the Borrower intends to contract from the United Nations
Children's Fund (UNICEF) a grant (the UNICEF Grant) to assist in
financing the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the UNICEF Grant Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and UNICEF; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated July 31, 1992, September 30, 1994
and November 7, 1994 between the Borrower and the Association;
(c)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health; and
(d)   "Implementation Program" means the program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.-


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-
eight million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 38,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.


﻿-4-
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
May 1, 2005 and ending November 1, 2034. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on November 1, 2014 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the


﻿- 5 -
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project and the
Program through M0H, with due dilzf.gence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and public
health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than October 1 prior to each succeeding calendar
year, submit to the Association, for its review and comments, the
updated Strategic Plan and Investment Program, and an annual work,
training and procurement plan and recurrent budget for its health
sector for the succeeding calendar year;
(b)   not later than November 1 in each year: (i) review with
the Association and other donors, the documents referred to in the
preceding paragraph; (ii) identify implementation issues and propose
appropriate solutions; and (iii) update Project timetables and
performance indicators; and
(c)   not later than December 31 in each year, furnish to the
Association the documents referred to in paragraph (a) hereto,
revised in accordance with the review referred to in paragraph (b)
hereto and so as to be satisfactory to the Association and, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, carry out the Project in
the year in question on the basis of such documents as may have been
so revised.
Section 3.04. Not later than May I in each year commencing
May 1, 1996, furnish to the Association, for its review and
comments, a report in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, including an evaluation of progress achieved in
Project implementation in accordance with the Program and the
Implementation Program and, in particular: (i) progress in meeting
the agreed output targets in the district; (ii) progress in the
number of health centers and other facilities offering the basic
package of services; (iii) beneficiary assessments and other
external reviews of the previous year's progress and the actions
proposed and taken to correct any problems identified; (iv) progress
in the implementation of revised policies and logistics systems in
the areas of human resources, drugs and supplies, urban primary
health care, family planning and nutrition; and (v) draft audit
reports for the institutions that have received support from the
Credit in the preceding year.
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a


﻿- 7 -
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project and the
Program;
(b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Association's comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance    v,!tth  appropriate  auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
*time reasonably request.


﻿- 8 -
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least     one year   after  the
Association has received the audit for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records and    accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant
part thereof will be carried out; and
(b)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in


﻿- 9 -
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor; and
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension, cancellation or termination is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for thc Project are available
to the Borrower from othLr sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the Borrower has made arrangements satisfactory to the
Association for financing the Investment Program and its health
sector's budget for 1995.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka, Zambia


﻿-10-
Cable address:                Telex:
MINFIN                    42221
Lusaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the naotr±s of Qolumbd  Tnin          44't
Stce=5-'of-Ame.s, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By 141     ~           f~
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /0/
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed           Expenditures
Categry          in SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works                               100% of foreign
under Part B                              expenditures and
of the Project                            90% of local
for:                                      expenditures
(a) District            19,320,000
level
facilities
(b) other                4,140,000
(2)   Equipment, vehicles,     7,590,000        100% of foreign
drugs and supplies                        expenditures,
100% of ex-
factory local
expenditures
and 90% of
local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed          Expenditures
Category          in SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3)   Consultants'           2,070,000         100%
services,
studies, audit
and training
(4)   Incremental              140,000         100%
recurrent costs
(5)   Refunding of           1,040,000         Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                         suant to Section
tion Advance                             2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(6)   Unallocated            4,400,000
TOTAL                  38,700,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "Incremental recurrent costs" means the costs
incremental to the Project of district health facilities and of the
Planning and Management Unit within MOH, including salaries, per
diem, utilities, office supplies, travel costs, fuel and vehicle and
equipment maintenance.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;


﻿- 13 -
(b)   expenditures in respect of any contract for works under
Category (1) (a) until the Borrower has furnished to the Association
standard architectural designs satisfactory to the Association for
such works; and
(c)   expenditures under Category (1) (b) until disbursements
under Category (1) (a) shall have reached SDR 6,900,000.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for civil works not exceeding $250,000
equivalent and under contracts for goods and services not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to
improve access to, and the effective utilization of, quality health
care, nutritional interventions and family planning services through
the implementation of the Program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Policy Development
Carrying out of research and development to refine the
Borrower's national health policy framework and to adapt operational
strategies through phased testing of delivery systems, operations
research and studies, including, inter alia:
1.    Development of community health approaches in peri-urban
areas.
2.    Development of cost-sharing mechanisms and fees.
3.    Reformulation of the multi-disciplinary skills required for
effective delivery of health care.
4.    Design of methods to strengthen management practices within
health facilities and at the support levels.
5.    Development of legislation to support and strengthen the
Borrower's new health policy.
Part B:     Investments
1.    (a)   Construction  and rehabilitation   of health   service
facilities for District Health Boards, Hospital Boards and MOH; and
construction and rehabilitation of staff houses for rural District
Health service providers.
(b)   Acquisition of equipment.
2.    Improvement of planning and implementation skills at district,
regional and central levels in areas of clinical and public health


﻿- 15 -
competence, quality assurance, corporate planning and management,
outreach, monitoring, use of the computerized health management
information system and supervision.
3.    Acquisition of essential drugs and materials, including family
planning commodities, for public health services.
4.    Supporting district health facilities to offset incremental
costs resulting from the phased implementation of the Borrower's
health sector reform program, including costs of:
(a)   monitoring by staff of effective use by clients of the
package of care;
(b)   conducting seminars for district staff on their new
responsibilities; and
(c)   improving community outreach.
Part C:     Extern.l Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and evaluation of progress of the Program,
including:
1.    Beneficiary assessments focusing on structural and procedural
changes within MOH and on client perceptions of improved health care
service delivery.
2.    Measurement of outputs, including utilization rate changes,
and of specific program indicators such as nutritional status,
vaccination coverage, antenatal care visits and contraceptive
prevalence rates.
3.    External evaluations, including technical, financial and
procurement audits by private independent auditors.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with, the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Association's prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part
E.1 (a) of th.i.s Section, the Association's prior approval will be
required for: (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if
the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any
subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
in the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Zambia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,


﻿- 17 -
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Local Competitive Bidding
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$5,500,000 and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
less per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Local Shopping
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
less per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000
and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $700,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.    Direct Contracting
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be
awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 18 -
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, and each contract for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragtaphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract, together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as


﻿- 19 -
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
each, or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions
to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably  determined  by  the   Association,  (d) amendments  to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    In carrying out the Project, MOH shall provide: (a) planning
and management support through capacity building in district-based
health care; (b) monitoring of performance and quality improvements
of health care services; (c) donor coordination for the mobilization
of resources; (d) technical expertise in basic health programs and
clinical services to advise health care providers; (e) support for
human resource development; (f) administrative support through
responsive procurement and distribution systems for districts; and
(g) budgeting, accounting and audit support.
2.    The Planning and Management Unit in MOH shall be responsible
for overall Project coordination and implementation; short term
technical assistance shall be provided for specific advice and
technical know-how; and the Planning and Management Unit shall
liaise specifically with the Association on the implementation of
the Project. MOH shall assign three staff full-time within the
Planning and Management Unit for the purpose of handling all
reporting, procurement, budgeting, accounting and auditing matters
under the Project. The Planning and Management Unit shall develop
standard procurement documents for both goods and civil works to be
procured under the Project using local competitive bidding, and
agree on such documents with the Association prior to their use. The
Planning and Management Unit shall also be responsible for
organizing the reviews with donors specified in Sections 3.03 and
3.04 of this Agreement.
3.    The Borrower shall maintain national Program Managers to
advise and assist districts in adapting the national health reform
package and defining strategies for its delivery in their respective
setting. The Program Managers shall: (a) assess improvements and/or
the need for research; and (b) ensure that national standards and
quality of health care services are maintained in light of
international standards and developments in the health sector.
Program Managers shall also directly support the household and
community package by coordinating with relevant sectors to ensure
community access to information, technical assistance and physical
resources with respect, inter alia, to family planning, prevention
of the spread of sexually transmitted diseases, including the Human
Immunodeficiency Virus, diarrheal disease control and good
nutrition.


﻿- 21 -
4.    District Health Boards shall be responsible for supervising
the delivery of essential health services provided by the national
package in their respective geographic areas. The District Health
Boards shall also: (a) in cooperation with communities and health
centers, where appropriate, establish Area Health Boards (at sub-
district level) with specific terms of reference and support such
Boards in their work; and (b) in cooperation with neighborhood
communities and health workers, develop appropriate structures for
local decision-making, quality control and financial accountability.
5.     In addition, the District Health Boards shall be responsible
for: (a) management of district-based services including capital,
recurrent, equipment    and  human  resources;  (b) provision   of
Integrated Health Programs meeting local priorities; (c) auditing
district   performance   in  terms   of   quality,  quantity   and
accessibility; (d) preparation of annual health plans in light of
available resources, local priorities and national goals; (e)
consultation and collaboration with local Government and other
agencies concerned with effective delivery of health care; (f)
collaboration with and supporting the regional health management
acting as local representative of MOH; and (g) encouraging community
participation in health planning and delivery.
6.     The Hospital Management Boards shall be responsible for: (a)
management of their respective hospital services including capital,
recurrent, equipment and human resources; (b) provision of cost-
effective health services that complement but do not compete with
services provided by health centers; (c) auditing hospital
performance in terms of quality, quantity and accessibility; (d)
preparation of annual health plans in light of available resources,
local priorities and national goals; (e) consultation and
collaboration with District Health Boards and private practitioners
within the hospital catchment areas; (f) collaboration with and
supporting the regional health management acting as local
representative of MOH; and (g) encouraging client participation and
feed-back in improving the quality of services rendered by
hospitals.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit Account and the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to
or exceed the equivalent of SDR 6,900,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.


﻿- 23 -
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3  of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;


﻿- 24 -
(c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)   once the   total unwithdrawn   amount  of  the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of $6,000,000, twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments Eor eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.


﻿- 25 -
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


