                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 33542

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (TF-26556 FSLT-71450)

                                          ON A

                                         LOAN

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20.21 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF LATVIA

                                       FOR THE

              SECOND PROGRAMMATIC STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
                                          AND
                          ASSESSMENT OF THE PSAL PROGRAM




                                     October 24, 2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                  (Exchange Rate Effective October 17, 2005)

                                         Currency Unit = Lat (LVL)
                                            US$ 1 US$ = LVL 0.584

                                               FISCAL YEAR
                                          January 1   December 31

                                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL   Administrative Procedure Law                   LPA Latvian Privatization Agency
AU   Anti corruption Unit                            MoAg Ministry of Agriculture
BFI  Budget Financed Institutions                    MoF Ministry of Finance
BPAR  Bureau of Public Administration Reform         MoJ Ministry of Justice
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                    MTFP Medium Term Fiscal Plan
                                                     MoPSR Ministry of Public Sector & Regional Reform
CEM   Country Economic Memorandum                    NATONorth Atlantic Treaty Organization
CIS   Commonwealth of Independent States             NDP National Development Plan
COM   Cabinet of Ministers                           NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
CPC   Corruption Prevention Council                  NTR National Telecommunications Regulator
CPAR  Country Procurement Assessment Review          OECDOrganization for Economic Cooperation & Development
CPCB  Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau     OED Operations Evaluation Department
CPI   Consumer Price Index                           PAC Public Accounts Committee
CSA   Civil Service Administration                   PAR Public Administration Reform
DDO   Deferred Drawdown Option                       PAYGO          Pay As You Go
DEM   German Mark                                    PEM Public Expenditure Management
EBRD  European Bank & Reconstruction & Development PER Public Expenditure Reviews
ESW   Economic &Sector Work                          PMB     Procurement Monitoring Bureau
EU    European Union                                 PLP   Programmatic Lending Program
FCMC  Financial & Capital Market Commission          PSAL Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan
FIAS  Foreign Investment Advisory Service            PUC Public Utilities Commission
FDI   Foreign Direct Investment                      SAL Structural Adjustment Loan
FSAP  Financial Sector Assessment Program            SAO State Audit Office
FSU   Former Soviet Union                            SBA Stand-By Arrangement
GDP   Gross Domestic Product                         SDR Special Drawing Right
GMI   Guaranteed Minimum Income                      SIDA    Swedish Agency for International Develop. Cooperation
G-24  Group 24                                       SIGMA Support for Improvement in Governance and Managmnt
IBRD  Int. Bank for Reconstruction & Development     SOPA    School of Public Administration
ICR    Implementation Completion Report              SRS State Revenue Service
IDF   Institutional Development Fund                 TA    Technical Assistance
IFC   International Finance Corporation              TSO Transmission System Operator
IFI   International Finance Institution              UNDPUnited Nations Development Program
IMF   International Monetary Fund                    US    United States
LASCO Latvian Shipping Company                       VN    Ventspils Nafta
LBFM  Law on Budget & Financial Management           WTO World Trade Organization
LDA   Latvian Development Agency

                 Vice President:  Shigeo Katsu
              Country Director    Daniela Gressani
                Sector Director   Cheryl W. Gray
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Thomas Blatt Laursen

                                           LATVIA
                                            PSAL II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            21
6. Sustainability                                                                22
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 23
8. Lessons Learned                                                               25
9. Partner Comments                                                              27
10. Additional Information                                                       30
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             35
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             61
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             62
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             63
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             65
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                66
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            67

Project ID: P069890                                                  Project Name: PSAL II
Team Leader: Thomas Blatt Laursen                                    TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 24, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: PSAL II                                                  L/C/TF Number: TF-26556; FSLT-71450
   Country/Department: LATVIA                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (70%); General energy sector
                            (10%); Other social services (10%); General finance sector (5%);
                            Law and justice (5%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Macroeconomic management (P); Administrative and civil service
                            reform (P); Other accountability/anti-corruption (P); Regulation and
                            competition policy (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/20/2001                                     Effective: 10/30/2002                01/28/2003
     Appraisal: 04/23/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 09/10/2002                                      Closing: 09/30/2005                 04/28/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF LATVIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Daniela Gressani                               Roger W. Grawe
Sector Director:                Cheryl W. Gray                                 Cheryl W. Gray
Team Leader at ICR:             Thomas Blatt Laursen                           Celestin Monga
ICR Primary Author:             Mansour Farsad


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background and Context

When Latvia became independent in 1991, it inherited an inefficient and unstable economic structure with
inability to compete in world markets.          Latvia successfully implemented a vigorous program of
stabilization and structural reforms, supported by the Bank and the IMF. Implementation of these measures
reduced macroeconomic imbalances, curbed the rising rate of inflation, and permitted Latvia to undertake
the first generation of reforms to liberalize and privatize the economy and to restore growth. By the
mid-1990s, economic progress was threatened by a banking crisis, which revealed serious vulnerability in
the financial sector. The Government successfully contained this crisis by accelerating restructuring of the
banking system and establishing a sound regulatory framework for the financial system. It also embarked
on an economy wide reform program to steer the Latvian economy toward a rapid and robust path of
growth and poverty reduction.

A DEM90.6 million Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) from the World Bank (1996) and a Stand-By
Arrangements (SBA) from the IMF supported this program. The SAL program focused on: (i) maintaining
macroeconomic stability; (ii) expediting privatization and promoting financial discipline in banks and
enterprises; and (iii) rationalizing expenditure decisions and strengthening the overall institution capacity
for the management of public finance. The SAL operation was implemented successfully, although some
elements of the reform program, notably privatization of large enterprises, faced delays. Subsequent to that
operation the Government requested assistance from the Bank for the design and implementation of a
successor reform program. The Government initially did not request financing for that program as Latvia
had excellent access to international capital markets with strong inflows of FDI.

However, the Russian crisis in 1998 changed Latvia's macroeconomic situation. That crisis confirmed
vulnerabilities of the Latvian economy to external shocks, and led to a disruption of the trade flows and a
rising current account deficit. The Russian crisis, and the resulting negative sentiments towards emerging
market economies, increased significantly Latvia's cost of borrowing from the international markets. At the
same time, Latvia was in need of additional external financing due to bunching of amortization payments
on loans, which it received during the early years of transition. The sluggish response of the economy to
this crisis indicated the need for further reforms in order to enhance competitiveness and efficiency of the
economy. By mid 1999, the Government began taking initial steps to restore macroeconomic balances and
resume growth. It also engaged the IMF and the Bank in discussions of a possible SBA and a second SAL.
The objective was to improve the credibility, efficiency and effectiveness of the public sector in order to
enhance service delivery and to support the return to robust private sector led growth. With market
economy reforms largely completed, the inefficiency and corruption in the Latvia public sector had become
the main structural impediment to a sound and sustainable growth.

Creating a more efficient and effective public sector was also Latvia's priority for accession to the EU.
The CAS also had anticipated a second SAL to complete economic restructuring in Latvia. However, since
the implementation of the public sector reform program required a time horizon longer than the time frame
of a single adjustment operation, the Bank agreed with the Government on a programmatic structural
adjustment lending approach (PSAL). PSAL1 was then prepared as the first of three operations that would
successively support core structural reforms.

Initially, the overall resource envelope of the three PSALs was programmed to be up to US$100 million



                                                     - 2 -

equivalent financed by IBRD. The PSAL1 was approved by the Board on March 3, 2000 and became
effective on March 22, 2000. The loan amount (US$40.4 million) was fully disbursed and the loan was
closed on December 31, 2000. During the preparation of PSAL2 the Government, after consultation with
the Bank, selected the Bank's new Deferred Drawdown Option, which offered the possibility of not tapping
into the resources until there was an explicit need. As such, the PSAL2 was approved by the Board in
September 2002, with an initial closing date of September 30, 2005 to allow for the maximum time for
disbursement. In the end, the operation did not disburse as Latvia's accession to the EU in May 2004,
allowed for access to the Community's structural funds making it unnecessary to borrow from other
sources. In April 2005, the Government requested the cancellation of the PSAL2 and indicated to the Bank
its intention of not going ahead with the planned PSAL3 operation because of its favorable financial
situation. As a consequence, from the $100 million allocated for the three PSAL operations only $40
million related to PSAL1 was fully disbursed. Nevertheless, as is elaborated in sections below, despite the
fact that PSAL2 did not disburse, and PSAL3 did not materialize to create a legal requirement for the
Government to undertake specific reforms, the Government has continued with the reforms under PSAL3
broadly as originally planned, thus making significant progress in furthering the reform agenda, and in
making the PSAL program a success.

The ICR.         The purpose of this ICR is to review the outcomes of PSAL2 and PSAL program as a
whole, and to evaluate the PSAL 2 operation specifically. As such, the ratings in this ICR apply only to
the PSAL2 operation.        The ICR guidelines for programmatic development policy lending require
preparation of the final ICR no later than two years after the approval of the last operation when a program
ends earlier than expected. However, it is important to note that Deferred Drawdown operations allow for
longer program implementation and hence later closing dates than traditionally given for the usual single
tranche operations in a programmatic series. This ICR is being prepared within the required six months
following the closing of the final operation and the Government's indication not to proceed with the
follow-on (PSAL3) operation.

Objectives

The overall objectives of the PSAL program, which was launched following the 1999 macro financial
crisis, were to: support a growth oriented macroeconomic framework; strengthen the credibility of the
public sector; improve institutional capacity to deliver public services; and build a transparent relationship
with the private sector. The Government was expected to achieve these objectives by implementing specific
reforms in the areas of: (i) fiscal policy; (ii) public sector management; (iii) human resource management;
and (iv) privatization and regulations for public utilities and private business. It was expected that
successful implementation of these reforms would help Latvia regain macro- financial balances and would
help its progress towards the strategic goal of EU accession. As is discussed in section 3.3 below these
objectives were appropriate given Latvia's economic situation, its previous experience with structural
reforms under the first SAL, and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy.

At the outset of the program, it was envisaged that over a 3-year period there could be up to three single
tranche PSALs to support the implementation of Latvia's reform program. The PSAL1 focused mainly on
initiating reforms in the areas of fiscal transparency, regulation, and government structure. It supported the
development of critical legal frameworks with the passage of new legislation or amendments to existing
legislation. Building on these, PSAL2 and PSAL3 were envisaged to focus on strengthening public sector
institutions and on implementation of these laws.




                                                       - 3 -

3.2 Revised Objective:

The PSAL objectives and components, including those on PSAL2, were not revised and remained the same
since the Board discussion of PSAL1. They remained appropriate throughout the PSAL program and were
relevant to the economic situation and the circumstances of Latvia.

3.3 Original Components:

The components of the PSAL program, including PSAL2, aimed at four main areas:
l Returning to a macro-economic framework conducive to robust growth, with emphasis on: (i)
    correcting macro imbalances that emerged after the Russia crisis; and, (ii) ensuring the financial
    viability of the pension system;
l Strengthening the credibility of the public sector by: (i) reducing risks and opportunities for corruption
    in government and in the judiciary; and, (ii) strengthening transparency and reporting of the ministries
    and other government organizations;
l Improving the institutional capacity to deliver public services through: (i) streamlining the structure of
    the public sector; (ii) improving incentives for recruitment and retention of staff; (iii) strengthening
    public expenditure management; and, (iv) strengthening accountability for the use of public resources;
    and,
l Rationalizing the interaction between the public and the private sectors by: (i) privatizing the remaining
    state-owned enterprises; and, (ii) strengthening the regulatory framework and financial and business
    regulations.

The policy measures under each component were prioritized and sequenced as shown in the Policy Reform
Program Matrix attached to the LDP, with core measures (identified to be critical for the reform program)
appearing in bold font (see Annex 1).

The design of the PSAL components was clearly linked to the Government development strategy and the
objectives described above. The range of reforms covered by the PSAL program was very much
appropriate and reflected Latvia's unfinished structural reform agenda. The policy measures that were
supported by the PSAL were also aimed at restoring growth, improving efficiency and performance of the
economy, and paving the way to EU membership.

The details of PSAL achievements and the outputs and the outcomes achieved in each of the components of
the PSAL program are presented in Annex 1 and described in section 4.2 below.

3.4 Revised Components:

No major changes were made and the original components remained unchanged. As mentioned before, they
were appropriate for achieving the PSAL objectives in Latvia.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The ICR finds the quality at entry to be satisfactory. This assessment is based on the following
considerations:

(i) Quality Enhancement. Early in the preparation of this program, the Region invited the Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) to provide an overall assessment of the program and focus in particular on using



                                                      - 4 -

the right instrument and targeting the right interventions. The Group made two sets of suggestions. The
first set related to the choice of PSAL instrument and transforming the proposed two tranche (one year)
operation to a medium term (3-5 year) framework. The second set related to strengthening the policy
contents of the program by adding measures to improve transparency and expand anti-corruption activities
in particular on: a medium-term expenditure framework; the regulatory framework; database on public
employment; pension reform, judicial reform; and, privatizing the shipping and the power distribution
enterprises. (Quality Assurance Group "Quality Enhancement Review: Latvia SAL II, November 12,
1999). As is elaborated in section 4.2 below, almost all QAG suggestions were implemented in the design
of the program. In hindsight, they were also appropriate given the depth and the breath of the reform
program in Latvia, which had initiated with the reform programs under the first SAL and had intensified by
the EU accession and harmonization requirements.

(ii) Link to the CAS. The objectives of the PSAL program, including PSAL2, were consistent with the
development priorities of Latvia and included policy measures, which put the restructuring of the public
sector and maintaining financial stability at the center of the Government's reform agenda. These priorities
had been identified in the 1998 Bank's CAS, which also emphasized the need for sustaining
macroeconomic and financial stability in Latvia. They were also important in meeting criteria for joining
the EU membership, which was an important goal for Latvian policy makers at that time.

(iii) Design of the Program. As is described in the Letter of Development Policy of PSAL1 (February
2000), the design of the PSAL program and its components were mainly driven by the need for deeper
structural reforms to restore sustainable growth. The design of the PSAL1 and PSAL2 operations took into
account an appropriate balance between institutional needs and policy and structural reforms. In addition to
a broad set of structural reforms, the operations included a fairly comprehensive set of needed institutional
measures dealing with public administration, civil service, regulatory reforms, and anti-corruption efforts.
The design of the operations ­ both the PSAL program at the time of PSAL1, and revised program at the
time of PSAL2 ­ anticipated the traditional one year intervals for the completion of the next phase triggers
and action. In hindsight, however, a framework (4-5 years versus 3 years) would probably have been more
appropriate given the long term nature of some of the institutional changes envisaged.

(iv) The Contents of the Program. The contents and broad scope of the PSAL program were appropriate.
The policies supported by PSAL1 and PSAL2, covered implementation of a broad range of reforms to
support a sustainable growth within improved macroeconomic situation. Strengthening Latvia's public
sector and governance structures were the central theme of the reform program, which included: improving
public expenditure and human resource management; streamlining ministerial functions; promoting a
comprehensive anti-corruption campaign; strengthening supervision and regulation in financial and capital
markets; developing regulatory framework for utilities and the business sector; completing privatization
program of the five remaining large enterprises; and the establishment of a fully functioning three-tier
pension system. The Bank's value added was in helping Latvia prioritize, coordinate and effectively
implement the wide range of reforms required by EU accession process. The PSAL program with its
periodic appraisals, approvals, supervision and evaluation was the appropriate tool for providing this
support.    The program was also designed within the competencies of the implementing agencies, in
particular the Ministry of Finance, which was a well experienced ministry and coordinated the overall
economic activities. However, the implementation capacity of some line ministries and government agencies
also needed further strengthening in order to implement many ambitious targets of the programs.

(v) Choice of the Instrument. Overall, the instrument of programmatic lending was well chosen. The
Deferred Drawdown Option (see section 5.4), which offered the possibility of not withdrawing borrowed
funds until there is a need, was also appealing to the authorities as they intended to draw on PSAL2 funds


                                                     - 5 -

only when necessary. This was also one of the first operations to use the programmatic adjustment loan
instrument. The Bank's earlier choice was a traditional structural adjustment loan to meet Latvia's external
financing needs. However, soon during the preparation of the operation it became clear that many of the
critical institutional measures that Latvia needed were unlikely to take place within the time-frame of a two
tranche SAL. This was because their appropriate scope, sequencing, and pace could not be determined with
full certainty in advance. In addition, in view of the fact that many reforms needed to take place in phased
steps over a number of years, the choice of a programmatic adjustment instrument ensured some flexibility
and greater sustainability for the Government and the Bank's lending program. Adapting conditionality
over time suggested that a traditional SAL instrument was not an optimal choice. When these issues
surfaced, the Bank decided to explore with the Latvian Government the option of using the new PSAL
instrument. The idea of Bank support for a longer-term reform program matched the Latvian Government's
interests and it was therefore decided to go ahead with the proposed operation as a PSAL. This was also
consistent with the above mentioned quality enhancement review suggestions.

(vi) Preparedness, Participation, and Ownership. Although the program was complex and involved a wide
range of reforms, the PSAL preparation started on a sound footing, with a strong Government ownership.
From the outset, the Government, driven by the need for fiscal consolidation and prospects for EU
accession, embraced the PSAL initiative and started its preparatory work. The PSAL preparation was also
based on in-depth knowledge of the economy and the preparatory efforts from the previous operations
including the prior SAL, the Enterprise and Financial Sector Restructuring Project, the Welfare Reform
Project as well as some intensive economic and sector work and considerable technical assistance. The
PSAL program took the EU acquis communitaire, the national program for the adoption of the acquis, the
accession partnership documents, and Bank's own AAA work as points of departure. The Bank also
supported the preparation of the reforms through the PHRD and IDF grants (see section 10), and through
its ESW particularly on the regulatory framework for financial markets, rationalizing public expenditures,
strengthening the management of public finances, and enhancing the regulatory environment for
infrastructure (through an IDF grant). In addition, FIAS undertook a review of regulations affecting
investments in Latvia. With support from strategic compact funds, the Bank assisted the Government with
the development of a comprehensive anti-corruption agenda. Support for further progress on these activities
was included in each of the PSAL operations. In terms of ownership, the Government had full involvement
in the PSAL1 and PSAL2 preparation. The Bank maintained a close relationship with the many successive
Latvian Governments, all of whom showed commitment to policy reforms under the various Bank
operations.

(vii) Focus, Selectivity, and Actions during Preparation. To improve the functioning of the public sector,
the PSAL program, and in particular PSAL2, covered many programs that emphasized the need for
institutional reform from three interrelated angles. First, the reforms aimed at improving accountability and
transparency by strengthening the credibility of the public sector through implementation of anti-corruption
measures. Second, the reforms focused directly on strengthening the capacity of Latvia's public sector to
improve delivery of services. These included functional reviews to assess and facilitate the streamlining of
Latvia's ministries; a comprehensive new administrative framework for the public sector; and the transition
towards a public expenditure management system that focused on outputs and programs in a medium term
perspective. Another important aspect of this part of the program was improving the targeting and delivery
of social assistance to reach the poor and vulnerable groups in Latvia. Third, the reforms aimed at
rationalizing the interaction between the public and the private sector. Measures in this area aimed at the
privatization process of the remaining large enterprises; and also at enhancing Latvia's regulatory capacity
to facilitate competition. These programs also assisted the Government with reforms in the area of
inspections and permit. The program was frontloaded with a number of ambitious targets to be achieved
within a one year time frame of PSAL1. However, during the implementation of PSAL1 and at the time of


                                                     - 6 -

the preparation of PSAL2, it became clear to the Government and the Bank that the initial scope of some
the programs were ambitious (e.g., restructuring and privatization of power company) and needed some
adjustments, particularly given the capacity constraints in the public sector. The Government and the Bank
thus agreed to make the relevant changes in the originally agreed sequencing and focus more on what could
realistically be achieved in the framework of the PSAL2 and PSAL3 programs. These changes, which were
not many, reflected mainly the increased knowledge of the reform program as the operations proceeded.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Progress under PSAL1. The overall performance rating for PSAL1 was satisfactory, but the assessment
under each component varied. On the first component, most benchmarks on correcting macro imbalances
were met, though some with delay. Parliament passed a law creating a second tier pension system. On
strengthening public sector credibility, the Law on Public Sector Agencies was passed to clarify the
institutional framework and accountability for establishing various types of public institutions, a system for
monitoring implementation of the Law on Openness of Information was designed, annual declarations on
conflict of interest became mandatory for high public officials, and regulations requiring publication of
annual reports by public sector institutions were adopted. However, anti-corruption activities were slow
and thus marginally satisfactory despite the fact that those related to the judiciary advanced according to
timetable. The reason for the slow progress was because the Government did not establish full mechanism
to monitor and report on corruption.

On improving institutional capacity to deliver public services, the Law on Budget and Financial
Management brought all accounts of budget-financed operations under the Treasury and all state
institutions started to submit annual audited report to the Treasury. The Law on Civil Service was
adopted, but the survey of the pay structure was not undertaken. Although functional review of some
ministries started (Ministries of Economy and Justice) no specific plan to strengthen the public sector
institutional capacity was prepared. Also, the program and action plan prepared to implement reform of
public administration did not contain a schedule or timetable.

On the fourth component, rationalizing the relationship with the private sector, a Law on Public Service
Regulators and a Law on Financial Capital and Market Commission were passed by Parliament, but the
operation fell short of achieving its targets on privatizing large enterprises. For details on implementation of
PSAL1, see the October 2001 ICR on PSAL1.

It is important to note that a number of shortcomings in the achievement of objectives have been noted in
the ICR on PSAL1, which represented the status of the reform agenda and its progress at that time.
However, these shortcomings have been overtaken by subsequent developments under the program, and in
retrospect, PSAL1 has had greater impact than originally indicated at completion.

Progress under PSAL2. The achievement of objectives and anticipated results under PSAL2 is rated as
satisfactory since the PSAL2 program achieved practically all its main objectives (for details see section
4.2 below and Annex 1). On the first component, one of the key objectives of the PSAL program, and in
particular PSAL2, was to restore the economy to a path of sustainable growth within a stable
macroeconomic environment. This objective was fully achieved (see Component A below). The effective
economic management and the strong structural reforms that Latvia undertook under this program, helped
restore credibility and confidence in the economy and paved the way for Latvia to become among the first
new EU member countries in May 2004 (initially Latvia was scheduled to join the EU after the first group



                                                       - 7 -

of the accession candidates).

On the second component, strengthening the credibility of the public sector, the Government was successful
in achieving its anti corruption objectives, though with some delays. Latvia has a new legal and policy
framework in place for addressing corruption, and its anti-corruption strategy is being implemented by a
well-positioned anti-corruption unit. In particular, the country has some of the most progressive legislation
in Europe on the financing of political parties and election campaign financing. In terms of outcomes,
Latvia has seen an improvement in the impact and perception of corruption over the PSAL, and PSAL2
program periods. Of the 88 (95) countries ranked in Transparency International's (TI) Corruption
Perception Index both in 2001 (1999) and 2004, Latvia rose in rank from 57th to 46th over that period. In
addition, the percentage of respondents in survey results reporting that problems related to high- (and low-)
level corruption had fallen during the past 4 years increased from 33 (41) percent in 1999 to 44 (47)
percent in 2005 (see graphs in Section 10). The share of respondents indicating that they were less willing
to resort to bribery of officials to get problems resolved increased from 38 percent in 1999 to 41 percent in
2005. It must be acknowledged that the perception of corruption in Latvia still remains high. In TI's 2004
Global Barometer Survey the average Latvian respondent ranked corruption in political parties at 4.2 and
the legal system/judiciary at 4.1 on a scale of 1 (not at all corrupt) to 5 (extremely corrupt). However, the
country is much better positioned in terms of institutions and implementation capacity to continue to make
headway on this critical issue, as a result of the PSAL program and PSAL 2.

The reform efforts under the third component focused on increasing administrative efficiency and
improving institutional capacity to deliver public services. Latvia's public administration had to undergo
radical transformation in order to meet contemporary demands of a market oriented economy and also to
meet EU's administrative accession requirements. A new Strategy of Public Administration Reform was
developed for the years 2001-2006 and the responsibility for coordinating government policy on public
administration reform was given to the State Chancellery. In the end the Government has been successful in
streamlining the structure of the public sector and increasing its administrative efficiency and transparency.


In the area of private sector development, and in terms of overall achievement of objectives, the
Government was successful in encouraging further private sector activities and growth. It strengthened
supervision of bank and non-bank financial institutions. The Government also improved business
regulations and streamlined legal and regulatory process to reduce costs to businesses. Latvia is now
ranked among the top performers for setting up a business (see section 4.2). Private investment increased
from an average 22 percent of GDP in 1997-2000 to 27 percent during 2001-04. Net FDI has risen from
1.4 percent to 4.0 percent of GDP between 2001 and 2004. Non-performing loans (NPLs) as a share of
total loans has fallen from 4.6 percent in 2000 to 1.1 percent in 2004, and provision has increased from
62.5 percent of NPLs to just under 100 percent reflecting, among other things, improved supervision of the
banking sector. In addition, assessments by the IMF indicate the quality of loan portfolios is being
maintained despite the recent rapid expansion of domestic credit.

Similar to PSAL1, the implementation of the PSAL2 also faced some delays, particularly in the areas of
privatization of large enterprises and the public sector pay reform (see section 4.2 for details), mainly due
to the frequent changes in Government. Despite their individual commitment to continue with the PSAL
program, new governments needed to reassess the situation from their own perspective which resulted in
some implementation delays. For example, the public sector pay reform became a highly political issue and
met substantial resistance from the top-level civil servants. Some progress has been made in the recent
months (e.g. developing job classification, etc.), but the continuation of this reform will need stronger
political support.


                                                      - 8 -

Planned PSAL3.           In the end, the better than expected performance under PSAL2 also helped to
launch the key policy measures under the PSAL3. Although the Government did not go ahead with the
loan, it worked hard with the preparation of the planned PSAL3 reforms as envisaged under that operation,
most of which had been initiated under PSAL1 and PSAL2. Building on those, the Government was
successful in achieving major PSAL3 objectives and targets (see section 4.2 and Annex 1 for details),
reflecting its strong commitment to the reform agenda of the PSAL program.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The details of the Government reform program and its components are discussed in the 2001 PSAL1 and
2002 PSAL2 President's Reports. This Section describes major accomplishments under each of the PSAL
operations and components. The Section draws on the above-mentioned Reports as well as on the 1998
CAS and the 2001 Implementation Completion Report for PSAL1. Annex 1 provides a full account of the
actions undertaken in each of the PSAL operations.

Component A: Returning to a Macroeconomic Framework Conducive to Robust Growth

This component is rated as satisfactory. Its main objectives were: (i) to correct the macroeconomic
imbalances that re-emerged after the 1998 Russian crisis; and (ii) to ensure financial viability of the
pension system following the Government decision to provide increases that permanently raised pensions by
about 10 percent. These objectives were fully achieved.

Correcting macroeconomic imbalances. The Government's macroeconomic program focused on
improving fiscal balances by ensuring the financial sustainability of the pension system. PSAL1 and
PSAL2 successfully managed to help the Government correct the imbalances. As a result of the Russian
crisis, economic growth and current account and fiscal balances had all deteriorated. By end 1999,
however, a modest recovery and a lowering of the current account and fiscal deficit were underway.
Latvia's macroeconomic situation strengthened significantly under the PSAL program, and majority of the
indicators show more improvement than originally targeted (see Table1). GDP, which was projected to
grow by about 6 percent a year during 2001-04, registered an average growth of 7.5 percent. This growth,
which was a reflection of increased investment and a strong performance by the services sector (see the
graphs in section 10) represented a full recovery from the slow down of the economy following the 1998
Russian crisis.




                                                     - 9 -

Table 1. Key macroeconomic outcomes compared to PSAL2 projections
                                              2001            2002           2003            2004
  Real GDP growth, % (pr )                     7.6             5.0             6.0            6.0
 Real GDP growth, % (ac)                       8.0              6.4            7.5            8.5
 CPI growth, % (pr)                            2.5              3.0            3.0            3.0
 CPI growth, % (ac)                            2.5              1.9            2.9            6.2
 Domestic Investment, % of GDP (pr)            29.0            27.8          28.1            29.1
 Domestic Investment, % of GDP                 26.5            26.3          28.0            32.3
 (ac)
 Current Account Balance, % GDP               -10.1            -8.5           -7.5           -7.3
 (pr)
 Current Account Balance, %                    -7.6            -6.7           -8.2           -12.3
 GDP(ac)
 Fiscal Balance, % of GDP (pr)                 -1.8            -1.8           -1.5           -0.9
 Fiscal Balance, % of GDP (ac)                 -2.0            -2.3           -1.6           -1.1
 Government Debt, % of GDP (ac)                13.8            13.3          13.4            13.2
 M2X, % of GDP (pr)                            32.5            32.8          32.7            32.7
  M2X, % of GDP (ac)                           29.8            32.8          35.7            39.0

pr = projected
ac = actual
Source: World Bank (PSAL1 and PSAL2 President's Reports); Latvian authorities.

Fiscal Policy. In terms of outcome, the consolidated fiscal deficit declined by more than 3 percentage
points of GDP between 2000 and 2004. The fiscal deficit, which in the aftermath of Russian crisis had
reached 3.9 percent of GDP in 1999 (up by 2.7 percentage points from 1998), dropped to 2 percent in
2001. During the implementation of PSAL 2, the fiscal deficit further dropped to 1.6 percent of GDP in
2003 and to 1.1 percent in 2004. The improvement in the fiscal deficit reflected, in part, the implementation
of pension reform which resulted in a decline in transfers to households from 15 to 10 percent of GDP
during 1999-2004 and the elimination of the pension system deficit. It also reflected the commitment of the
authorities to meet the upper limit fiscal deficit (3 percent) set by Eurozone convergence criteria.

Monetary Policy.         The program also included measures to maintain monetary policy in line with
inflation and consistent with SBA, and to improve current account balance and maintain external debt on a
sustainable basis. The monetary policy focused on maintaining the pegged exchange rate to SDR (and since
the beginning of 2005 to Euro). At the same time, the process of financial deepening has advanced
significantly due mainly to increases in lending and the growing income of the population. This is clearly
shown by the rise in the M2X/GDP ratio, which increased from 30 percent in 2001 to 39 percent in 2004.
The credit growth has not, however, proceeded without negative consequences as inflation has become a
cause for concern. Inflation, which was below 3 percent for most of this period, was within the anticipated
figure of the IMF program at the time. However, due to the rapid expansion of demand and a one-time
factor for joining the EU, inflation increased to 6.2 percent in 2004. However, the Bank of Latvia is of the
view that inflation would slow down in 2005-06 as Latvia makes progress in joining the eurozone.



                                                      - 10 -

External Accounts.       By the end of 1999 current account deficit, which had deteriorated on account of
the Russian crisis began to decline by some recovery in CIS markets and the continuation of the
implementation of reforms. However, in the recent years, the current account balance performance has
been discouraging as it has stayed at high levels (12 percent of GDP in 2004, compared to than less than 7
percent in 2002). This increase has been mainly attributable to the increase in the volumes of imports, prior
to the EU accession in May 2004. During the PSAL period, the Government was successful in increasing
Latvia's exports to the EU and non-CIS markets, thereby reducing dependence and vulnerability of the
economy on traditional CIS markets. The Government was also successful in maintaining external debt on
a sustainable basis. The level of public debt was kept around 13 percent of GDP during the PSAL period.
This is a low figure, compared with international standards, and represents conservative policy of the
Latvian authorities regarding foreign and domestic borrowing. Recently, the Government has also
undertaken efforts to reduce the currency risks of its foreign debt portfolio by converting most of its foreign
debt to euro.

Ensuring the financial sustainability of the pension system. An important step in sustaining
macroeconomic stability was the implementation of the pension reform. In 1998 Parliament approved
amendments to the State Pension Law, which came into force in January 1999. As a result, pension
amounts grew by 13.9 percent compared to 1998. By 1999, the pension deficit was 1.2 percent of GDP.
Under the PSAL1 and PSAL2, the Government fully implemented range of measures to increase equity,
efficiency and financial stability of the system. All three tiers of the pension system are now in place
(planned PSAL3). The Government also prepared legislation establishing mandatory funded privately
managed pension funds. It also introduced measures to improve PAYGO system and to regulate future
indexation. The indexation of the pensions, aimed at increasing the purchasing power of those receiving the
smallest pensions, is now taking place twice a year and it is based on a combination of CPI and lower
pensions by partial price-wage index.

With the establishment of the second pillar, the number of registered persons has increased from about
26,000 in 2001 to 224,000 in 2004. The Government has also removed prohibitions related to working and
taking pension. As a result of these measures the budgetary deficit in the pension system, which was on the
rise and unsustainable before the introduction of these reforms, was eliminated in 2002 and the Pension
Budget has shown surpluses since then. The surplus amounted to 0.7 percent of GDP in 2004. (See the
graphs in section 10). The only area where progress has not been completely in line with the PSAL
program has been early retirement ­ the Parliament adopted amendments to the Pension Law stating that
the early retirement option will be extended by another 3 years (until July 1, 2008). The increase in the
retirement age could help Latvia address the issues related to the low labor force participation rates of the
elderly.

The details of achievements in these areas are mentioned in Section A of Annex 1.

Component B: Strengthening the Credibility of the Public Sector

This component is rated as satisfactory. The Government was successful in moving ahead with its
anti-corruption agenda and with its accountability goals. In the area of the public sector reform the main
objectives were: (i) to reduce risks and opportunities for corruption in the Government and the Judiciary;
and (ii) to strengthen Government efficiency, transparency and accountability. The Government achieved
both objectives, as elaborated below. In addition, the Government adopted a Public Sector Reforms
Strategy to guide the process of reform in the public sector.




                                                     - 11 -

Reducing risks and opportunities for corruption in Government and the Judiciary. The 2000 World
Bank Anti-corruption in Transition report characterized Latvia as a country with relatively medium levels
of administrative corruption and high levels of state capture. Conscious of this image, the Government
revised its anti-corruption strategy to put more emphasis on curbing state capture while ensuring that
appropriate attention would be paid on combating administrative forms of corruption. The anti-corruption
strategy focused on three areas: (i) revising the Corruption Prevention Law and Criminal Procedures Law;
(ii) establishing a new anti corruption unit - Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau (CPCB) in
charge of enforcement, prevention and educational activities on corruption; and, (iii) reforming the
legislative framework regulating the financing of political parties and election campaigns.          A related
anti-corruption program was undertaken specifically to address issues in the judiciary.

The creation of the Corruption Prevention Council (CPC) and the passage of the Corruption Prevention
Law were the key elements in early anti-corruption drive of the Government. The Law required officials to
make periodic declarations of their assets and to refrain from taking second jobs except in specified
categories. An Anti-corruption Unit (AU), located in the State Revenue Service (SRS) was established to
implement that Law. However, the AU did not have sufficient capacity to fulfill this important task (out of
about 35,000 declarations in the first year only 3.3 percent were verified). To strengthen the CPC, the
Government appointed an executive head for the secretariat to the CPC in December 1999, and endowed
the secretariat with adequate staff positions and resources. Under the PSAL1, the secretariat published the
status of implementation of its anti-corruption program on a quarterly basis. In addition, the Government
requested that the AU and relevant agencies develop a set of guidelines to effectively identify conflict of
interest and cases of illicit enrichment. However, since the Secretariat had only a coordinating function, it
had limited influence on the activities of other institutions implementing anti-corruption initiatives. Despite
this shortcoming, establishing the Secretariat created a momentum for the Government's anti-corruption
program and laid the foundation for subsequent creation of an independent institution in charge of fighting
corruption.

Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau (CPCB) was thus established under PSAL2 in late 2002.
The Parliament also appointed head of the CPCB and allocated sufficient resources for the Bureau. The
CPC functions as well as checking the declaration functions of the SRS were transferred to CPCB. The
unit at SRS continued to collect declarations and to check for their completeness and CPCB, as stipulated
by the law on conflict of interest, examines annually declaration of all high- level public officials and
members of Parliament. Checking declarations has also improved, as the state databases containing
relevant information (Enterprise registry, Vehicle registry etc.) are now available on line. Senior public
officials now declare their assets and income on a regular basis, system for auditing conflict of interest has
been developed, and handbook on checking declarations has been prepared. In 2004 administrative charges
were brought against 74 public officials for infringement of the provisions of the law on Prevention of
Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public Officials, where 69 public officials were fined in the amount of
5385 LVL. The same year the CPCB checked 516 declarations and as a result of joint initiatives of the
CPCB and the State Revenue Service about 30,000 LVL was reimbursed to the state budget.

CPCB also established mechanisms for the reporting of corruption and undertakes risk assessment for
corruption on the draft laws (planned PSAL3). In close cooperation with other institutions the CPCB has
drafted National Corruption Prevention and Combating Program (the Medium Term Strategic Action plan
under planned PSAL3), which has been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Program contains 120
activities covering prevention, enforcement, and education. As of June 2005, the CPCB has initiated 30
criminal cases and forwarded 27 criminal cases to Prosecutor's office; 74 cases of conflict of interest were
also identified in 2004.




                                                     - 12 -

The passage of amendments to the Law on Political Party Financing was another important step taken
under PSAL 2 to reduce opportunities for corruption. Latvia now has one of the most progressive political
party and election campaign financing legislation in Europe. The new legislation introduced caps on party
financing and the role of individual wealthy sponsors. It also requires the political parties to declare
ex-ante intended spending levels as well as the actual spending after the elections. The CPCB has
established procedures to check parties' declarations and a cooperation agreement was signed with NGOs
on observation of pre- election campaigning before the elections for municipalities held in spring 2005. The
enforcement of the legislation is entrusted to CPCB. The new disclosure forms for political parties have
been developed (planned PSAL3) the CPCB has established procedures to check parties declarations and
NGOs have been invited to participate in monitoring political party financing. In 2004, the CPCB checked
finances of 51 parties and demanded repayment of illegal donations to the state budget in amount of about
133,000 LVL (from 15 political parties). The full impact of these reforms is likely to only be seen in the
medium term. However, one early result of this new legal and institutional framework was a reduction in
the total amount of municipal pre-election campaign expenditure in this year by 50 percent in comparison
to the last election due to the introduction of a threshold to be spent during pre-election campaigning.

Progress was also made in reducing risks and opportunities for corruption in the judiciary. Under PSAL1,
the Ministry of Justice adopted several measures to: (i) provide greater transparency in communications
between judges; (ii) mandate an element of randomization in assignment of judges; (iii) require all court
decisions and rulings to be made public; and (iv) provide training to judges and prosecutors in new laws
prior to their enactment. All new court buildings in Latvia are constructed with separate areas for judges
and the public in order to prevent illegal communications (PSAL2). Cases in courts must be assigned in
accordance with internal court regulations and court decisions are published on the Internet and available to
public at low cost (planned PSAL3). Under PSAL2 the Ministry of Justice reviewed its system for
monitoring the performance of courts and judges, though not many changes were made. It also prepared a
time-bound plan to integrate courts information systems. The Courts Information System is now completed
(planned PSAL3).

The Ministry of Justice also adopted the Medium Term Strategy to improve transparency, accountability
and efficiency of Judiciary under PSAL2. However, the implementation of this plan for building judicial
capacity is facing financing problems and its progress is slow. In 2002 the Ministry of Justice prepared
and published a manual for drafting laws and regulations based on good practices to ensure drafting
regulatory acts in a uniform manner. It also created a unified definition and procedure for 'normative acts'
ensuring that all these acts would be adequately reviewed by the Ministry of Justice prior to their adoption
by the Cabinet of Ministers. Two computerized databases containing all normative acts are now available
on line.

Strengthening the transparency and accountability of public sector institutions. Following its
independence Latvia had delegated the execution of many government functions to semi-autonomous public
sector agencies. Creation of agencies was done in an ad hoc manner and was motivated by incentives to
escape centralized standards and controls rather than on the basis of objective needs to delegate
responsibility to an agency. Agencies were operating on a legislative framework which was weak in terms
of specifying procedures for creating agencies, financial and managerial accountabilities, standards for
recruitment, promotion and pay, procurement practices, measures of performance and performance
evaluation, and the treatment of fees. The reporting requirements by ministries and government agencies
were also weak, and many regulatory bodies and inspectorates were not subject to reporting requirements.
Moreover, opportunities for appeals by private individuals or organizations were limited and, where
available, are governed by the civil procedures code which treated the cases as a contest between the state
and the claimant.


                                                      - 13 -

Under the PSAL program, the Government clarified the framework for establishment, monitoring and
accountability of these agencies and has made steady progress in rationalizing the sector. Under PSAL1,
the Cabinet of Ministers adopted a moratorium on the creation of new public sector agencies until the
parliament adopted an appropriate the Law on Public Sector Agencies. This Law combined with the Law
on Framework of Public Administration that was prepared under PSAL2, have formed a clear institutional
framework for operations of various types of public institutions. Since 2001, more than 160 nonprofit state
enterprises have been converted into agencies governed by the new law or their functions have been
devolved to the ministries (planned PSAL3).

To increase transparency, the Cabinet of Ministers, adopted regulations on Information Openness under
PSAL1, and put the State Data Protection Inspectorate in charge of the implementation of this Law under
PSAL2. However, performance of the Inspectorate needs improvement. Since 2000, all public institutions
are mandated to prepare annual reports covering their functions, strategic objectives, financial information,
and progress in their performance indicators. In 2002, the Cabinet of Ministers passed regulations requiring
annual reporting by public agencies, as well. Today all public institutions publish their annual reports on
the Internet (planned PSAL3). However, the reports still tend to focus excessively on processes and
functions rather than on outcomes and outputs. To protect individual rights of appeal, Parliament enacted
the new Administrative Procedures Law in February 2004 and ministries have revised their existing
procedures to comply with the requirements of the new law.

The details of achievements in these areas are mentioned in Section B of Annex 1.


Component C: Strengthening the Public Sector's Institutional Capacity

This component is rated as satisfactory. The key objectives under this component were: (i) to streamline the
structure of the public sector and increase its administrative efficiency and transparency; (ii) to improve
incentives for recruitment and retention of high quality staff; (iii) improve public expenditure management;
and, (iv) to strengthen accountability for the use of public resources.. All these objectives were
substantially accomplished, with the exception of the public sector pay reform, which has been
substantially delayed.

Streamlining the structure of the public sector and increase administrative efficiency and
transparency. Before the PSAL program, Latvia's public administration structure had not kept up with
the structural changes in the economy; its pay system depended heavily on bonuses and management
contracts and public expenditure lacked a comprehensive strategic planning framework. A radical
transformation was needed for the public administration to meet the new demands of a market-oriented
economy and a democratic state, as well as to meet the EU's administrative accession criteria. This
required not only a comprehensive administrative reform agenda but also strong institutional capacity to
manage and implement the reform program. The Government's early objectives were to strengthen its
policy coordination and strategic planning mechanisms, improve public expenditure management and
review and adapt the structures, functions and policies of public institutions to meet EU accession
requirements.

Under PSAL2, the Prime Minister convened an inter-ministerial working group (Public Sector Reform
Coordinating Council) to develop a new Strategy of Public Administration Reform for the years
2001-2006, which was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in 2001. The strategy included clear
assignments of responsibilities for the design and coordination of the specific elements of the reform
program and an allocation of staff and budgetary resources for this assignment. To provide the necessary


                                                   - 14 -

capacity to carry out the required reforms, the Government merged the Bureau of Public Administration
Reform with the Secretariat of the Minister of Special Assignments for Public Sector and Regional
Reforms. Progress of implementing the strategy is reported to the public through annual public
administration conferences (PSAL2 and planned PSAL3).

Under PSAL1, the Government reorganized the Chancellery, and gave it policy coordination and strategic
planning responsibilities. However, beyond this little progress was made on strengthening policy and
planning capacities. Under PSAL2, the Cabinet of Ministers approved Policy Planning Guidelines for the
government and strengthened the capacity of the Chancellery by adding a policy coordination unit. In
January 2003 the responsibility for public administration reform was also transferred to the Chancellery in
order to unify the capacity to plan and implement public sector reforms at the center of the government.

To improve policy formulation, the Cabinet of Ministers under PSAL2 approved regulation requiring legal
and regulatory impact analysis prior to enactment of any new legislation. A manual on impact assessment
of draft legislation was published by the State Chancellery in 2005 and the School of Public Administration
developed a training program on impact analysis for the public sector employees. Subsequently, all line
ministries have begun implementing regulatory impact assessment procedures (planned PSAL3).

Under PSAL 1, the Government piloted the functional reviews in three ministries (Ministry of Agriculture,
Ministry of Justice and Ministry of Economy), with assistance from the Bank through an IDF and PHRD
grants. Under PSAL2, the methodology for the reviews was modified and the necessary budgetary
resources were allocated for conducting additional reviews. However, the Government decided to align the
preparation of these reviews with the strategic planning by line ministries for the 2007 budget process. In
the interim the principles of the review methodology were used in the restructuring of 108 institutions,
commercial and non-profit state enterprises. Ten out of 12 ministries have now started the process of
reviewing of their functions and policies (planned PSAL3).

Improving incentives for recruitment and retention of staff. Before PSAL, Latvia's pay system was
fragmented and heavily dependent on non-transparent bonuses and management contracts, which had little
or no relation to performance. In addition, public officials often received additional salaries from the public
enterprises and agencies they were supervising, without proper criteria for monetary rewards and clear
specification of their responsibilities. As a result, the system was neither transparent nor equitable, and
de-motivated the public sector workforce.

Reforming the pay system in the public sector became a highly politically charged issue that encountered
strong resistance from high level civil servants. It also had with heavy budgetary consequences. As a
result, the progress achieved during the PSAL1 and PSAL2 was unsatisfactory. Under the PSAL1, the
Cabinet of Ministers adopted the concept of a broad-banded, transparent and uniform pay scale. However,
it was only partially implemented. More recently a new catalogue of job families and job descriptions was
approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, which will form the basis of new pay system to be implemented
during 2006-10. For the transition period during 2005 a separate regulation has been adopted.             The
Government is currently preparing a full timetable and program for allocating financial resources for the
implementation of the new system to be considered by the Cabinet of Ministers in October 2005 .

Despite the slow progress on pay reform, the Government successfully introduced performance
management systems into the Civil Service during the PSAL program. Under the PSAL1, the Saeima
adopted a new Civil Service Law in 2000 which introduced performance management systems.
Accompanying regulations have been adopted in subsequent years. Under PSAL2, training of managers for
conducting performance reviews was completed and the first round of performance evaluations was


                                                     - 15 -

performed in 2002. The reviews are now well institutionalized. The civil servants performance evaluation is
now linked with bonus award for the year's performance. The Civil Service Administration is annually
preparing reports on the progress and the development of Civil Service (planned PSAL3).

Strengthening public expenditure management. Before PSAL program, the Latvian budgetary system
lacked transparency and comprehensiveness. The proliferation of semi-autonomous agencies contributed
greatly to this as these agencies had the right to keep their own generated revenues and operate separate
bank accounts. An increasing share of revenues was earmarked for specific expenditures and around 60
percent of total revenue was not subject to budgetary allocation process.               This led to financial
mismanagement, fiscal expansion and build-up of contingent liabilities and weakened the Government's
ability to allocate budgetary resources in accordance with its priority needs. In addition, public
procurement processes were not transparent with no independent unit in charge of monitoring procurement
practices and dealing with appeals.

Under PSAL1, the Parliament passed amendments to the Law on Budget and Financial Management to
bring all accounts of budget-financed institutions (BFIs) into the budget. It also initiated the process that all
BFIs have their accounts solely with the Treasury. Under PSAL2, the Ministries and central public
institutions were required to submit financial reports of business companies managed by them to the State
Treasury. In order to stop proliferation of special budgets, the Cabinet of Ministers agreed to stop
earmarking for special budgets under PSAL2. The Government has since deepened these measures and has
liquidated all special budgets except for earmarked social security payments (planned PSAL3).

Although during the PSAL1, the public expenditure management reform focused mostly on
comprehensiveness, transparency and accountability issues, groundwork was being prepared to introduce a
medium term framework to budget management. Under PSAL2, the Government presented the budget to
the Saeima with a medium term macro-fiscal framework, including budget priorities. To introduce multi
year fiscal perspective, the Cabinet of Ministers prepared fiscal strategy and medium-term macro-fiscal
framework under PSAL1.         It also approved under PSAL2 the Medium Term Financial Framework
guidelines, stipulating ministries to prepare three-year expenditure frameworks linked to their strategic
objectives.

To prevent the escalation of unfunded policy initiatives, under PSAL 1, the Cabinet of Ministers agreed to
limit new policy initiatives to the budget process. To support this, under PSAL2, Policy Planning
Guidelines were adapted to require preparing budgetary impact assessments for all new policy and
legislative initiatives.

To introduce performance-oriented budgets in line ministries, the government piloted strategic planning
with an annual performance program in the Ministry of Agriculture under PSAL2. On the basis of that
exercise, the Methodology of Strategic Planning was developed, accepted by the Cabinet of Ministers in
2003 and is now being used in other ministries (planned PSAL3). The implementation of strategic plans
and performance programs for all ministries is planned in 2007.

The PSAL program supported the introduction of a national social safety net scheme providing a
guaranteed minimum income (GMI) benefit targeted at the poorest segment of the population. The Cabinet
adopted a concept paper for this program was adopted by the Cabinet under PSAL1 and a pilot program
was initiated among a number of municipalities. The national program was implemented in the course of
PSAL2. In October 2002 under the planned PSAL2, Parliament adopted the Law on Social Services and
Social Assistance. Since 2003, the GMI level has been used by local governments for benefit payments and




                                                    - 16 -

the Cabinet of Ministers has increased it annually.

Strengthening accountability for the use of public resources. The PSAL program had a strong focus on
public expenditure transparency and accountability.       In particular, public procurement, internal and
external audit, and financial reporting for local governments were significantly strengthened during the
program.

The procurement process went through substantial reform during the PSAL2, based on the
recommendations of the Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR), which was carried out in late
2000. Under PSAL2, a new Law on Procurement was passed, along with complementary legislation, and a
new Autonomous Procurement Supervision Bureau was established in January 2002. The Government also
prepared standard pre-qualification and bidding documents, and strengthened the bid dispute mechanism
including administrative review process (planned PSAL3).

To strengthen financial and external audit function the State Audit Office (SAO) adopted a strategic plan to
strengthen its functions under PSAL1 and submitted a program of audits in 2000 and 2001. Under PSAL2,
the new Law on State Audit Office became effective in June 2002, broadening the scope of work of the
SAO and providing consolidation of the audit system. The SAO developed audit methodology and
undertook audit of the central budget institutions. All central government accounts are now audited on an
annual basis and audit reports are published (planned PSAL3). The SAO provides its report to Parliament
annually and publishes its report on a website.

To strengthen the internal audit function the Ministry of Finance, under PSAL1, prepared the procedures
and appointed the heads of the audit units. Under PSAL2, the Ministry of Finance established the Internal
Audit Council with defined responsibilities and presented an annual audit report to the Council of
Ministers. The Internal Audit Law was adopted (October 2002) and the Cabinet of Ministers adopted
regulations and procedures to perform internal audit within the institutions. All ministries now perform the
internal audit function (planned PSAL3).

Improving financial accounting and reporting procedures for local governments started under PSAL1. The
Ministry of Finance reformed the system of expenditure needs calculations under PSAL2 to allow stability
and predictability in the equalization mechanism. According to the Local Government Law and the Budget
and Financial Management Law, local governments are now required to submit reports and budget
execution reports on their financial position to the State Treasury. The latter will subsequently be made
available in the webpage of the State Treasury.

The details of achievements in these areas are mentioned in Section C of Annex 1.


Component D: Rationalizing the Interactions between the Public and Private Sector

On balance, implementation of this component is rated as moderately satisfactory. The objectives in this
component focused on: (i) moving most of the significant remaining commercial state firms to the private
sector;; (ii) achieving a uniform approach to supervision of finance and capital markets and strengthening
of financial supervision system with particular emphasis on non-bank financial institutions; and (iii)
improving business regulation and strengthening legal and regulatory process to reduce costs to businesses.
Together these measures were expected to support a more dynamic and competitive enterprise sector while
increasing efficiency of the energy and telecom sectors.

Privatizing the remaining SOEs. Despite the government's strong efforts on the privatization agenda, the
outcome was less than satisfactory. Although the privatization processes were significantly strengthened


                                                    - 17 -

in terms of transparency and efficiency, few of the enterprises selected were fully privatized owing both to
unanticipated political opposition and market conditions. Under the PSAL program, the Government's
goal was to complete Latvia's privatization started under the first SAL. Under the PSAL1, the Government
was to privatize several large enterprises with the help of international advisors. The enterprises included:
Latvenergo (the power company); Lattelekom (the telecommunications company); Latvijas Gaze (natural
gas company); Ventspils Nafta (oil pipeline company); and, Latvian Shipping Company (LASCO). Of this
list, only Latvijas Gaze was fully completed (in August 2001) and the remaining shares of this company
were sold through Riga Stock Exchange.

Under PSAL 2, the Bank agreed with the Government to change the sequencing for Latvenergo and focus
on correcting the regulatory framework and dividing up that company to increase competition, before
privatizing it. However, strong opposition pressure resulted in Latvenergo being removed altogether from
the program and placed, in June 2005, on a legislated list of six state enterprises which will not be
privatized together with the railways, post office, air traffic control, a forestry company and the Riga
International Airport.

Privatization of Lattelekom was held up by a dispute with the strategic investor later resolved during the
PSAL2, but 51 percent of the shares still remain in state ownership. It is unclear how and when these
remaining shares will be sold. Lattelekom also holds 23 percent of Latvijas Mobilais Telefons (LMT)
shares, which complicates the latter's privatization prospects. Although LASCO was privatized in 2002 by
public offering for privatization vouchers and sale of shares through Riga Stock Exchange for cash, the
state remained a major shareholder as 49.9 percent of the shares are held by Ventspils Nafta (of which 38.6
percent is still owned by the Government) and another 10 percent are held by the State Social Insurance
Agency. However, in June 2005, the Cabinet passed a resolution to sell the remaining government shares
in Ventspils Nafta.

Despite these setbacks, as mentioned before, the Government made important improvements in the process
of its large-scale privatization. Reputable international advisors were involved not only during the sale of
the assets but also during the due diligence process and the drafting of the privatization regulations. This
greatly improved the transparency and accountability of the process and reduced the opportunities for
insider deals to take place. Moreover, the Latvian Privatization Agency, invited the local branch of
Transparency International to monitor privatization of Latvian Shipping Company. Although that deal did
not go through initially, this action reflected the Government's intention to shed the image of 'deal behind
the closed doors' and promote transparency in that procedure.


Strengthening the regulatory framework and financial and business regulations.

Regulatory framework.              The PSAL program was instrumental in establishing a modern regulatory
framework and institutions for telecom, transports, energy, railways and postal services in Latvia. Under
the PSAL1, a law was passed creating a Public Utilities Commission and the statutory responsibilities for
telecommunications, transport, energy, railways and the postal service were transferred to this Commission.
PSAL2 conditions were also fully met. Under PSAL2, the Financial Capital Market Commission became
fully operational. Its chairman was appointed, professional staff recruited, and a medium-term regulatory
agenda developed. Procedures were established that would allow evaluation of regulatory proposals to
ensure consistency across sectors.      The planned PSAL3 requirements regarding adoption of tariffs,
according to transparent and published methodologies, were also fulfilled. Further work is now needed to
open up access to transmission grid in electricity, resolve the division of responsibilities among central and
local governments which will require raising regulatory capacity at the municipal level.


                                                     - 18 -

In the energy sector, the PSAL program supported the establishment of an energy market in line with EU
directives on market liberalization.      Specifically, Latvenergo was restructured under PSAL 2, the
Transmission System Operator was established as an independent body (planned PSAL 3) with
requirements to publish balancing reports annually, although the assets are still held by Latvenergo, and
separate tariffs have been established for generation, transmission, distribution and sales in electricity and
gas. Also under PSAL 2, the Energy Law, Grid Code and secondary legislation were revised/put in place
to allow eligible customers (with a recently reduced threshold) to choose their suppliers. There are now no
legal and institutional obstacles for third party traders to enter the Latvian electricity market and to access
the transmission and distribution networks in gas. In the case of telecommunication, all the PSAL1 and
PSAL2 conditions have been met, including the liberalization of infrastructure and establishing of
transparent and non-discriminatory competition rules. The implementation of the planned PSAL3 measures
is well underway. The methodology for cost calculation was approved in January 2003 and in December
2004 the Commission approved the regulation on telecommunication services.

Financial sector regulations. The PSAL program was instrumental in strengthening the supervision of
financial institutions in Latvia following the 1995 banking crisis and the 1998 Russian crisis. Under the
PSAL1 the Government prepared legislation and an action plan to support the establishment of an
autonomous and integrated financial regulatory body to supervise non-bank financial institutions. This was
an important step especially because the second tier pension resources were required to be handled by
private funds. Under PSAL2 this agency, the Financial and Capital Market Commission (FCMC), became
operational. Its Chairman and Deputy Chairman were approved by Saeima for a period of 6 years,
adequate resources were allocated, operational procedures established, and a training program undertaken
for its staff. The Commission received ISO9001:2000 quality certification in May 2003. Subsequently,
the Consultative Council of FCMC was established (planned PSAL3) to oversee the operations.                The
improved capacity of supervision has helped to improve and maintain the quality of loan portfolios despite
the recent rapid expansion in domestic credit (see Section 4.1).

Business regulations. The 1998 FIAS report on Administrative Barriers to Investment in Latvia and other
business surveys had indicated the need for decreasing administrative and regulatory burden for enterprises
conducting business in Latvia. The Government had no rigorous process for evaluating regulatory
proposals and ensuring consistency across the sector in order to avoid regulations that were difficult or
costly to implement. Inspectorates responsible for implementation of regulations frequently had no
consistent procedures for enforcement, lacked transparency and accountability, and had weak reporting
requirements.

Under PSAL1, to improve the functioning of state bodies that enforce regulations such as inspectorates, the
Cabinet of Ministers adopted instructions to ensure transparency in inspectorate's procedures. It also
provided rules for documenting violations, collecting fines, mechanisms for appeals, as well as inspection
reports and their publications. In addition, Inspectorate Coordinating Council was established to implement
inspectorate reforms. This included preparing a training program for inspectorates, providing information
to businesses about the inspection process, and training inspectors in how to improve strategic focus and
develop a `client orientation' in their work. With support of the PSAL2, the Government prepared new
uniform inspection guidelines and reporting requirements as well as new procedures for collection of fines.
Each inspection agency developed its own internal instruction to govern their activities (with fee and fine
structure) and made these available to the public. Also, in close cooperation with Foreign Investors
Council, the Government developed an Action Plan to Improve the Business Environment.

As of June 2005, 95 out of 106 suggested measures in the Action Plan have been successfully implemented.


                                                     - 19 -

Implementation of these measures have helped increase share of private activities in the economy (see
section 10) and have resulted in a substantial reduction of time to start business. With the registration time
of 11 days, Latvia now ranks among the top ten countries worldwide with short business start-up times.
Also, the 2005 publication titled "Doing Business in 2006: Creating Jobs", a joint production of the Bank
and IFC, surveyed 155 economies in ten areas including business regulation, taxes, trade costs, property
rights, and access to credit. Latvia ranks a top 9th performer for setting up a business.

The details of achievements in these areas are mentioned in Section D of Annex 1.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not Applicable. This was a policy-based operation.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional impact of the PSAL program has been substantial, given the changes that it has brought to
the public sector and the way public sector conducts its business. Institutional developments in each of the
reform areas have been as follows:

In the area of macroeconomic management, a medium term budgetary framework process was put in
place. In addition, the pension reform was completed and a fully funded second pillar and privately
managed pension funds were established. The development of the MTEF also had significant institutional
development impact with respect to budgeting and has become an important instrument in the way the
Ministry of Finance and line ministries do business.

In strengthening the credibility of the public sector, institutional development include: establishing
Independent Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau in charge of enforcement, prevention of
anti-corruption activities; constructing new court buildings with separated areas for judiciary and public in
order to prevent direct consultations; transferring existing agencies to operate with the framework of new
Law on Agencies and Law on Framework of Public Administration; establishing Administrative Courts;
and putting State Data Protection Inspectorate in charge of implementation of Law on Information
Openness.

In strengthening the public sector's institutional capacity, functional and policy reviews were conducted at
10 ministries; strategy of Public Administration Reform was approved for the years 2001-2006; Policy
Coordination Unit at State Chancellery established; new Law on Civil Service and accompanying
regulations enacted and implemented; Cabinet of Ministers regulations required ministries to submit
financial reports of enterprises under their management to the Ministry of Finance; Medium Term Financial
Framework Guidelines were approved; and, an independent body to monitor and supervise procurement
activities established.

In the area of private sector development, particularly with regards to regulations, institutional
development has been substantial. Regulatory framework for utilities and for private financial funds were
either put in place or reformed; privatization process became more transparent; security market regulations
were improved; tax and customs administration was also modernized, leading to reduced compliance cost



                                                     - 20 -

for the private sector and efficiency gains in the revenue system.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

An important, and positive, factor outside the control of the government was the public demand for EU
accession and, related, the external requirements imposed by this process. The demand helped maintain
momentum on a broad range of reforms across numerous political regime changes during the PSAL
program. The imposition of external requirements from EU directives and the acquis communitaire were
crucial in helping the Government to identify areas of priority and to maintain focus and follow through on
complex and deep reform programs. Nonetheless, the satisfactory implementation of PSAL 2 and the PSAL
program reflected very strong ownership and a broad consensus among the policy makers behind these
reform agenda.

While nearly all expected objectives were realized, the reform program also faced certain delays. As
mentioned before, the outcome in privatization of large enterprises became somewhat of a disappointment
in this operation despite the significant effort by the Government to push this agenda forward. One
significant example was privatization of the power company (Latvenergo), which was derailed due to the
unanticipated public opposition. Ultimately, the law on energy was amended by Parliament, which allowed
Latvenergo to remain publicly-owned.          Also, the disputes over exclusivity terms in the case of the
Telecommunications Company (Lattelekom) led a strategic investor to seek international arbitration. This
led to a significant delay in its privatization, although the Company was eventually privatized. Political and
internal resistance to public sector pay reform also delayed implementation of that program.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Ownership of the reform agenda was strong, but there were difficulties in the implementation of some of
the reform areas. These were the reflection not only of the political pressure, but most importantly, shifts in
priorities of successive governments.

In the case of the pay reform, the Government did not forcefully pursue the needed actions, and as a result,
the reform encountered significant political and fiscal affordability problems. These plus its poor
management, and a lack of timely follow up due to changes in the task team members led to, as one official
noted, "loss of momentum" in the process. It is only more recently that the momentum has been revived.
This situation to some extent also reflected the lack of an institutional home for the pay reform. Initially,
the responsibility for government policy on employees pay and salary scale was with the Ministry of
Welfare. The responsibility was transferred to the Ministry of Finance in 2000 and starting 2004 was
jointly shared with the State Chancellery. The State Chancellery's capacity, however, is weak to deal single
handed with both public administration reform agenda and issues such as pay and salary scale in the public
sector.

Other areas where more timely actions by the Government may have resulted in a better outcome include
functional reviews in Ministries, which suffered from delays during the PSAL1, although they made much
more progress in the course of the PSAL2.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

See Section 5.2




                                                       - 21 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

The three PSAL operations were programmed to be up to total US$100 million equivalent in IBRD loans,
with the first, second and third loans amounting to US$40 million,US$20 million and US$40 million,
respectively. The loan figure of PSAL2 was decided to be $20 million because the Government's financial
situation had improved. The preparation of PSAL2 operation was also postponed for few months because
the Government missed the performance criteria for general government deficit under the first SBA
program for end-September and end-December 2001. The PSAL1 and PSAL2 Loans were provided on
IBRD terms, with a grace period of 6 years and a maturity of 13 years. While PSAL1 was fully disbursed,
the Government decided to select Deferred Drawdown Option for PSAL2. Access to alternative sources,
including the EU structural funds following accession, made it unnecessary to activate this facility.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability is rated as highly likely. The Government continues to implement the PSAL supported
reform program, and there are no indications that reform momentum has slowed down. During the tenure of
3 Prime Ministers and 4 Ministers of Finance since the start of this program in 2000, the Government's
degree of ownership and commitment to implement the PSAL supported reforms has remained strong.
There is no reason to believe this will not be sustained.

Moreover, the EU dimension is key to the sustainability as much of Latvia's PSAL reform agenda was
defined by the EU accession and harmonization requirements and is now cushioned in the country's
obligations of membership. In addition, most of the PSAL measures have been incorporated into the
regular operations of the Government, in particular those on public expenditure management, treasury
operations, tax and Customs administration, utilities regulations, business environment, and the pension
system. The PSAL programs have also supported the establishment of transparency and accountability in
public financial management, procurement process and in systems for budget management and the
Treasury. These are well under implementation and are expected to further improve budget execution and
the strategic allocation of budgetary resources. Also, the national means-tested social assistance benefit,
which started as a pilot is being implemented nation- wide.

Macroeconomic stability has been maintained in Latvia since 1999. This is a good track record to expect
that stabilization performance will continue, particularly as the country is poised to join the euro-zone.
Latvia is well under its way to being fully integrated into the European economy. The gains in structural
reform agenda are likely to be sustained to help the maintenance of economic stability and growth. The
PSAL programs supported the establishment of a legal and regulatory framework for public utilities as well
as for banking and securities and the business sector. These are difficult to reverse. Similarly, policy and
institutional improvements in budget management, pension reform, auditing, and tax and Customs
administration have been included in legislation as well as in the work of the Government.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

There are no plans, at this time, for new operations in Latvia. The Bank is continuing to support the
Latvia's anti-corruption agenda with an IDF grant for institutional strengthening.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank



                                                     - 22 -

7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in lending for the PSAL2 is rated satisfactory. The reasons for this rating include:
consistency with the CAS, timeliness of response; Government participation and ownership; design and
focus of the reform agenda; choice of the instrument, and, complementarity with the EU and other donor
support. The program also went through a Quality Enhancement Review.

The PSAL2 was prepared based on a full knowledge of the economy and the existing obstacles to structural
reforms. Some intensive prior background work on anti-corruption, public administration, tax and customs
administration, public expenditure management, and, the analysis of institutional needs were also
instrumental in the preparation of this operation. The PSAL2 operation was also built on substantial
preparatory efforts from the prior SAL, the Enterprise and Financial Sector Restructuring Project, and the
Welfare Reform Project. The Bank also supported preparations of the reforms through the PHRD grant for
each of the PSAL operations (see section 10). The Bank's other assistance included: (i) an IDF grant that
supported public sector reform; (ii) a Macro and Financial Vulnerability Review that pointed out the main
external vulnerabilities of Latvia's macro-economy and financial sector; (iii) an IDF grant, which
supported assistance to build up regulatory frameworks in the various utility and infrastructure sectors;
(iv) the development of a comprehensive anti-corruption agenda through a survey of corruption in Latvia
and through advice on how best to fight corruption; and (v) a FIAS study on regulations and administrative
barriers to investment in Latvia.

In terms of the lending instrument, the decision to change during preparation from a traditional adjustment
operation to a programmatic one, and the choice of Deferred Drawdown Option, were appropriate and
reflected the circumstances of Latvia and the request of the Government. Within the Bank the project team
consisted of seasoned professionals experienced in a number of transition and non-transition economies and
in the areas of public sector reform and regulatory framework. The presence of the Bank office in Riga
greatly facilitated tracking of the PSAL progress and resolving its emerging problems. Moreover, in the
context of the Bank decentralization, the staff of that office became more and more involved in the
preparation of the PSAL2 operation. The Bank team also well managed the coordination of donor
assistance to Latvia in the area of the PSAL reforms. Close consultation was also carried out with the IMF
and the EU Secretariat.

7.2 Supervision:

The quality of supervision is rated satisfactory. With frequent visits from the headquarters' staff, and with
the help of the staff of the Riga Office, the Bank was able to closely and regularly monitor progress under
PSAL2. The supervision missions focused mostly in the areas of the program that were new to the
implementing agencies and required expertise assistance. The Bank team established a good working
relationship with the Government counterparts, and the supervision missions paid particular attention to
resolving the implementation problems (an effort which was highly appreciated by the officials). However,
supervision could have been more effective, in areas such as pay reform, had there been more continuity in
policy dialogue and more frequent supervision visits by the headquarters team to provide systematic
guidance and oversight on this matter.

The close proximity of the office of the Country Director in Warsaw, plus the staff time and budget
considerations, led to a more reliance on field office staff for supervision. This was also in line with the
Bank policy for more effective use of the field staff in preparation and supervision of the projects. The
Riga Office played a key role in this regard and was able to closely and regularly monitor progress under
PSAL2. This to a large extent compensated the gaps in supervision from the headquarters.



                                                     - 23 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory in view of the PSAL design and the quality of
supervision.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Government performance in the preparation of the PSAL2 is rated satisfactory. Despite successive
changes in the governments and in key policy makers, direction of the reforms in Latvia remained
unchanged and nearly all expected objectives and outcomes of PSAL2 were realized, without major
reliance on Bank funding. This was essentially a reflection of strong ownership and a broad consensus
among the policy makers behind reforms. The Government was fully involved in the preparation of PSAL2
and appointed a counterpart team, consisting of the representatives of the ministries and responsible
agencies, to interact with the PSAL team from the Bank. This facilitated significantly the policy dialogue
on the key issues, and created a good understanding for each ministry or the government agency of their
responsibilities for undertaking the reform measures supported by PSAL2.

The design and the preparation of each of the PSAL2 components, their sub-components, was discussed at
length and agreed on with the Bank team. Many of which were also supported through the PHRD grants
(see section 10). In identifying the priority areas under the PSAL program, the Government relied on the
experience gained in the implementation of the first SAL and the subsequent analytical work performed by
the Bank. The Government also successfully maintained macroeconomic stability, which was critical to the
implementation of many other reform programs. On the whole, the preparation started on a solid base with
strong support by the Government.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The overall implementation performance of the Government is assessed as satisfactory due to the reasons
outlined in sections 3 and 4 above. With few exceptions, nearly all the reform objectives of PSAL2 and
those on the planned PSAL3 were fulfilled. The exceptions were: (i) privatization of the power company,
which became a major political issue; (ii) the pay reform in the public sector, which until very recently
faced resistance and delay; and, (iii) the anti-corruption activities, which were initially slower than planned.
This clearly represented the strength of the PSAL2 program and its ownership across various political
fronts and party lines.

The Government, particularly the Ministry of Finance as the main coordinating agency for the PSAL2, was
effective in maintaining macro fiscal stability. The Ministry of Finance also performed well in coordinating
inter-ministerial activities and in institutionalizing many fiduciary and budgetary procedures including
those on internal audit, Treasury operations and the public expenditure management process. The
performance of the other implementing agencies is also assessed as satisfactory due to the reasons outlined
in the sections 3 and 4. The PSAL counterpart team greatly facilitated the policy dialogue and coordination
of the activities of the numerous agencies involved in the operation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

See section 7.5

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:



                                                      - 24 -

The overall performance of the Borrower is rated as satisfactory. As elaborated in the previous sections,
the key objectives of the PSAL program have been achieved.

8. Lessons Learned


Latvia PSAL was comprehensive and broad based, but the choice of instrument increased flexibility of
its application. The PSAL contained significant policy measures in a large number of areas. This allowed
the Government to recognize the degree to which reforms across a range of sectors contributed to
macroeconomic stability and other structural goals. The broad based agenda involving comprehensive
programs may not be appropriate for many countries with weak governance and low capacities, but it
appropriately reflected Latvia's situation because the Government had already undertaken parallel actions
on a wide range of areas with high development impact and a stronger likelihood for implementation. The
programmatic instrument provided flexibility in sequencing of important reforms within a medium term
framework (such as those on pension, anti-corruption, public financial management, governance, public
sector and institutional reforms). Many of these reforms are inherently difficult and time consuming to
implement as changes will normally happen in small steps and over a number of years. The PSAL program
also helped Latvia undertake the reforms needed for joining the EU.

When there is strong commitment by the society and the Government, the implementation of reforms
does not need to be closely tied to the use of resources or to be bound by legal obligations. The goal of
EU accession was deeply owned by the Latvian society, and as such fully reflected in the commitment of
the respective governments. This paved the way for full implementation of the required reforms envisaged
under the PSAL program (including those under planned PSAL3). Although the Government did not use
the PSAL2 proceeds, and requested its cancellation prior to its closing date, that operation per se was a
success. The lessons drawn from this exercise indicate that full involvement and ownership of the
Government is essential both at the preparation and at the implementation stage. The PSAL outcome
demonstrated that when the commitment and the ownership of the Government are strong, it leads to
important outcomes. Strong ownership together with broad consensus across political parties that were
created helped Latvia to push forward with its reform agenda and to expedite joining the EU. The
familiarity of the Bank staff with the circumstances of Latvia and their involvement in working closely with
their counterparts proved to be an effective way in designing the program and in creating a genuine
ownership for the reform agenda.

Programmatic operations with comprehensive institutional reforms require substantial resources for
quality supervision. Comprehensiveness of the PSAL had important implications for supervision as it
required considerable range of skills and experience. Involvement of the many team members that designed
the PSAL during its implementation was critical in keeping the supervision quality high and in building
understandings of the reform agenda when there were changes in the Governments and in counterparts.
PSAL type operations that have strong institutional implications would need additional supervision staff
and resources as they necessitate continuous dialogue with the Government and other stakeholders. In case
it is not possible to maintain continuity of the task teams then hand-over of responsibility should be
carefully managed to minimize possible disruptions. The experience of the PSAL program in Latvia
highlights the importance of involving staff throughout the life of the project. Although several task team
leaders and members were changed during the PSAL program, competencies of task team leaders and
maturity and experience of team members helped maintain continuity of policy dialogue on important issues
and the fine tuning of the operations when needed. Involvement of the field staff in project supervision was
also proved to be important in avoiding potential disruptions that could have emerged as a result of changes



                                                    - 25 -

in the team members.

Complementarity of the PSAL with investment operations and coordination with activities of the other
donors are critical for capacity building.      The PSAL and the parallel investment operations that were
carried out worked well to build the required capacities to implement reforms in Latvia. Coordination with
the IMF was instrumental to maintain macro fiscal stability needed to carry forward the PSAL supported
reform agenda. Coordination was particularly important with the EU. The EU accession conditions for
Latvia helped further strengthen the policy measures under the PSAL program, particularly in key areas of
transparency and public sector reform, where the EU was actively involved. Coordination with other donor
activities, which was done by the Government and the Bank during the preparation of the PSAL program,
was instrumental for providing complementary support and financing for important areas such as public
expenditure management, civil service reform and public administration reform. Also, the three trust fund
support from the Japanese Government for the PSAL program as well as IDFs and targeted TA from the
EU-PHARE and DFID provided resources for the preparation and implementation of the reforms, which
were critical for capacity building needs.

Interim assessments of programmatic operations should either be open to revaluation at the time of the
program assessment, or there should be an opportunity to assess the program as a whole. The
experience of the Latvia PSAL program reinforces the recent decision to limit the scope of completion
reports for the individual, but not final, operations to an interim assessment.         The ICR on PSAL1
elaborated on a number of shortcomings of that operation, which in time were overtaken by the subsequent
developments under the program. In retrospect, these developments have yielded a more positive outcome
for PSAL1 than earlier assessment. Since an inherent problem with assessing the outcomes of DPLs is the
short life span of these operations, it may be appropriate to use the opportunity of a programmatic series to
review the assessment at a later stage. An entire assessment of the program could be completed, so that
each operation has two ratings, one for the operation itself and another for the entire program.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Objectives and structure of the Project

The design of Second Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan (PSAL 2) was an important
component in country's structural policy and economic reform program. PSAL 2 focus on
strengthening the credibility and capacity of country's public sector remained particularly relevant.
Driven by the Governments commitments to ensure the continuity of measures settled by the
PSAL 1, PSAL 2 has provided significant guidance for improving certain areas of public
administrations' operational performance, giving valuable guidance for empowered transparency
and accountability. Specific activities under PSAL3 were implemented by the PHRD grant (USD
412,000), which was allocated for the start-up activities of PSAL 3 planned at that time.

In 2002 Latvia signed a PSAL 2 loan of USD 20.21 million with a deferred drawdown option of 3
years. It should be noted that the foreseen loan amount was not disbursed. This was caused by
good fiscal performance, which provided better than expected budgetary results. Improved credit
ratings and favorable borrowing conditions on capital markets have enabled us to abstain from the
use of earmarked PSAL 2 funds and to finance project activities from own budgetary resources.




                                                    - 26 -

In addition, the process of integration into the EU has provided access to the European
Community aid resources in the form of both financial and technical assistance. The given
resources were partially used to co-finance the technical expertise for envisaged PSAL
components.

Achievements of the Project

As the vast majority of conditions included in the loan program matrix are fully met, we consider
that project objectives are achieved.

We would like to emphasize the fulfillment of following conditions:
-       Latvia has maintained an appropriate macroeconomic framework and has experienced a
significant economic upturn in recent years. GDP growth has averaged 7.5 percent during
2001-2004, reflecting increased investment and strong performance of the services sector. With
the exception of 2004, inflation has remained below 3 percent. Consolidated fiscal deficit declined
by 3 percentage points of GDP between 2000 and 2004;
-       The pension reform is fully completed and all three tiers of the pension system are in place;
-       Measures to strengthen transparency and reporting of the ministries and bodies
subordinated, supervised or managed by them are implemented;
-       Legislative and operational framework for anticorruption activities is in place.


Contribution of the Project towards integration in the European Union

Implementation of PSAL 1 and PSAL 2 measures as well benchmarks under planned PSAL 3 to
the very large extent was driven by the obligations originating from integration into the EU.
Pre-accession work has led to the harmonization of legal base according to the EU requirements
and can be considered as one of the significant mile stones in the formation of today's economic
policy and effective public administration strategy.

From the given perspective we see PSAL as the efficient means of additionality and
supplementary vehicle that has influenced the implementation of PSAL components and helped to
launch key policy incentives.

Lesson learned, conclusions & future plans

Since the PSAL activities were targeted towards fundamental issues often tied to conditions set
by the EU, the activities and the results that followed received a good deal of support from local
authorities which ensured the follow up with subsequent results. Nevertheless PSAL 2 was closed
with no disbursements, we believe that Bank has provided useful guidance and additional stimulus
to carry on the reform programs.

We find the technical expertise provided by the Bank to be very valuable. Latvian authorities
believe that it is important to finalize implementation of those conditions that are currently partly
met.



                                                - 27 -

At this stage it is not planned to launch new structural adjustment loan. We still see some areas,
where Bank's technical expertise can be used, but the existing direct link between Bank's
technical assistance and lending arrangements on one hand, and the availability of more attractive
sources of external financing, restrains us from continuing cooperation in this vein. We should
bear in mind Latvia's prudent fiscal policy and Governments' commitment towards outmost
budget consolidation efforts.

Acknowledgements

Ministry of Finance would like to express its sincere acknowledgments to the Bank's staff
involved in the elaboration and implementation of PSAL project during this historic time of
accession and integration in the European Union.

(b) Cofinanciers:


Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


Not applicable




                                              - 28 -

- 29 -

   10. Additional Information

                                                      Selected Indicators


                     RealGDPGrowth(%)                                        Revenues,ExpenditureandFiscalBalance (%ofGDP)

                                                                        45%                                                                  0%
9%                                                                      40%
8%                                                 8.5%                 35%                                                                  -1%
7%                   8.0%
                                          7.5%              7.5%        30%

6%          6.9%                                                        25%
                                6.4%                                                                                                         -2%
5%                                                                      20%

4%                                                                      15%
                                                                                                                                             -3%
3%                                                                      10%
    3.3%
2%                                                                       5%
                                                                         0%                                                                  -4%
1%
                                                                               1999     2000       2001       2002      2003       2004
0%
    1999    2000     2001       2002       2003     2004   2005(proj)         Revenue     Expenditure(incl.netlending)    FiscalBalance(RHS)


          AnnualGrowthoftheKeyComponentsofGDP                                          SpecialPensionBudget(mlnLVL)

14%                                                                     700
12%                                                                     600
10%
                                                                        500
8%
6%                                                                      400

4%                                                                      300
2%                                                                      200
0%                                                                      100
-2%   1999     2000       2001         2002       2003     2004
                                                                          0
-4%
-6%                                                                     -100    2001        2002           2003        2004(est)    2005(proj)


                     Agriculture Industry Services                                           Revenues      Expenditures   Balance



         Exports,ImportsandCurrentAccountBalance                             Ifyouhadadifficultyresolvinganimportantproblem,wouldyoube
                        (%ofGDP)                                               readytobribeanofficialinordertogetthisproblemresolved?
70%                                                           0%                                 (%ofrespondents)

60%                                                           -2%
                                                                         100%
50%                                                           -4%
                                                                          90%         12.9                       19.2
40%                                                           -6%         80%
                                                                                      24.8                                        Definitelyno
30%                                                           -8%         70%                                    21.7
                                                                          60%                                                     Noratherthanyes
20%                                                           -10%        50%                                                     Yesratherthanno
10%                                                           -12%        40%         39.2                       36.1             Definitelyyes
 0%                                                           -14%        30%                                                     Don'tknow
      1999    2000      2001       2002      2003      2004               20%         12.1                       11.7
                                                                          10%
                                                                                       11                        11.4
                                                                          0%
              Exports    Imports        CABalance(RHS)                                1999                       2005




                                                                       - 30 -

    Duringthepast4yearstheproblemsrelatedtohigh-levelcorruption                          TheShareofPrivateSectorinGDP(%)
                            have...
                       (% of respondents)
                                                                              80
100%         4.9                  9.4                                         75
 90%                                                                                                                              74
                                                                                                                          72
 80%         28.1                                                                                              71
                                                  ... decreased substantially 70
                                                                                                  68
 70%                              34.7
                                                  ... decreased marginally    65       66
 60%
             22.1                                 ... seen no change
 50%                              18.6                                        60
                                                  ...increasedmarginally
 40%
 30%         27.9                                 ... increased substantially 55
                                  21.9
 20%                                               Don't know                 50
 10%         16.6                 14.9                                              1999       2000        2001        2002    2003
 0%
             1999                2005                                                                    PrivateSector


    Duringthepast4yearstheproblemsrelatedtolow-levelcorruption                          TheShareofPrivateSectorinEmployment(%)
                        (bribing)have...                                      70
                       (%ofrespondents)


100%                                                                          65
             6.5                 12.2                                                                                             63
                                                                                                                          62
 80%                                                                                                          61
             34.6                                 ...decreased substantially  60                 60
                                 35.4                                                 59
                                                  ...decreasedmarginally
 60%
                                                  ...seen no change           55
             25.5
 40%                             19.5             ...increasedmarginally

                                                  ...increasedsubstantially   50
 20%         18.4                16.3              Don'tknow
                                                                                    1999      2000         2001        2002    2003
             14.2                15.9
 0%
             1999                2005                                                                    PrivateSector



             NetInflowsofFDIinLatvia(%ofGDP)

6%

5%               5.2%
4%   4.6%
                                                                 4.0%
3%

2%                                    2.7%
                                                 2.4%

1%                        1.4%

0%
    1999        2000      2001        2002       2003            2004




  Source: Ministry of Finance; Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau; Central Statistical
  Bureau of Latvia; Bank of Latvia; and State Social Insurance Agency.




                                                                              - 31 -

PHRD Grant for PSAL 1 (JPN 26117)        Areas covered:
                                         Public Expenditure management
Original Amount:    US$ 608,676.00       - Review of the accounts of budget-financed institutions,
Actually spent:     US$ 493,294.31       - PERs in the Ministries of Agriculture and Justice,
                                         - Assistance in preparing medium-term macroeconomic and fiscal
Effective:  September 10, 1999           framework and policy strategy statement
Closing:    May 31, 2000                 - Legal advice for preparing laws on public sector agencies and
                                         public sector framework
                                         Pension Reform
                                         - Assistance in introducing the 2nd tier
                                         Privatization and Establishment of Joint Regulatory
                                         Framework for Public Utilities
                                         - Development of sector policies for regulated industries
                                         Public Sector Reform
                                         - Implementation of corruption prevention law
                                         - Design of the pay reform
                                         - Strengthening of legal and regulatory drafting, impact assessment
                                         and inspectorates reform
                                         Regulatory Framework for Financial Sector
                                         - Review of existing legislation
    PHRD Grant for PSAL 2 (JPN 26556) Areas covered:
                                         Social sectors and resource use
    Original Amount:US$ 504,315.00       - Social assistance
    Actually spent: US$ 487,812.34       - Public Expenditure Management
                                         Functioning of Public Sector
    Effective:      February 5, 2001     - Anticorruption
    Closing:        March 31, 2002       - Improving Transparency and Accountability of Public Sector
                                         Agencies
                                         - Public Sector Reform - Functional Reviews
                                         - Public Sector Pay Reform
                                         Regulatory framework that rationalizes the relationship
                                         between public and private sectors
                                         - Regulatory Framework
                                         - Judicial Reform
    PHRD Grant for PSAL 3 (JPN 51895) Areas covered:
                                         Social Sector
    Original Amount:       US$ 412,500.00- Methodology for the monitoring of poverty and social exclusion
    Actually spent: US$ 392,475.97       - Development of the basket of services financed by the state and
                                         local governments
    Effective:      May 15, 2003         Public Sector
    Closing:        May 1, 2005          - Development of Integrated Planning, Budgeting and Reporting
                                         - Building the capacity of the Corruption Prevention Bureau
                                         - Implementation of the new public sector pay system
                                         Public and Private Sector Relationship Component
                                         - Development of electricity market model and related legislation
                                         - Assessment of municipal regulatory system
                                         - Assistance to the Public Utility Commission
                                         Audit of the PSAL III PHRD Trust Fund




                                                 - 32 -

Activities under IDF (WBTF53946):
-       developing an action plan for the
Prevention Department of the CPB to identify
strategic priorities, build consensus inside and
outside the public sector and identify staff and
resources to implement the plan;
-       developing an ex ante conflict of interest
system including an operational manual and
guidelines for conducting ex ante reviews to assist
politicians and other senior official in identifying
and resolving potential conflicts of interest upon
entry into office;
-       developing and piloting a methodology for
conducting corruption vulnerability assessments to
identify institutional arrangements that exacerbate
the risk of corruption for training CPB staff;
-       strengthening NGO participation in
corruption prevention and monitoring by inviting
them to participate in vulnerability assessments and
monitoring of key public procurement;
-       strengthening the capacity of the
Parliamentarian Commission on anticorruption by
developing and introducing a code of ethics for
parliamentarian and provisions on lobbying and
evaluating the reasons for the high cost of
campaign finance.




- 33 -

IDF ­ Strengthening Capacity of
Anti-corruption Institutions (WBTF 53946)

Original Amount:       US$ 235,000.00
Actually spent:        US$ 50,000.00

Effective:     September 8, 2004
Closing:       September 8, 2007
IDF - Implementation of Laws Governing    Activities under IDF (WBTF50647):
Administrative Procedures and Information -        development of training programs for the
Openness (WBTF 50647)                     judiciary and training of trainers;
                                          -        development of commentaries on the laws to
Original Amount:       US$ 279,000.00     aid judges with the application of the law;
Actually spent:US$ 152,633.16             -        upgrading and provision of training
                                          programs for civil servants;
                                          -        development of a Manual on the laws for
Effective:     March 21, 2002             civil servants' use;
Closing:       March 21, 2005             -        preparation of materials for educating the
                                          public on their rights and obligations when dealing
                                          with public officials;
                                          -        establishing compensation mechanisms for
                                          citizens who suffer monetary consequences as a result
                                          of erroneous decisions by civil servants;
                                          -        development of administrative appeal
                                          mechanisms within the various Ministries;
                                          -        strengthening capacity of Data State
                                          Inspection supervised by the Ministry of Justice.




                                           - 34 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                    LATVIA PSAL: POLICY REFORMS PROGRAM MATRIX:
                   GOVERNMENT'S POLICY OBJECTIVES AND OUTCOMES
Benchmarks in bold and italic were loan conditions included in the loan agreements of PSAL1 and PSAL2. They
were indicative for PSAL3

               A. RETURNING TO A MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK CONDUCIVE TO ROBUST GROWTH

A.1. Objective: Correcting the macro-imbalances

         PSAL 1                   PSAL 2              Planned PSAL 3                    OUTCOMES AND OUTPUTS


Government has            The Borrower has         Maintenance of an    PSAL 1 ­ fully met.
reached agreement with maintained an               appropriate          IMF approved a $45 million Stand-By credit on December 10,
the IMF on a new          appropriate              macroeconomic        1999
Stand-By agreement in macro-economic policy framework.
December 1999.            framework, consistent                         PSAL 2 and Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
                          with the objective of the                     Latvia has maintained an appropriate macroeconomic
                          Program, as determined                        framework and has experienced a significant economic upturn
                          on the basis of                               in recent years. GDP growth has averaged 7.5 percent during
                          indicators agreed to by                       2001-2004, reflecting increased investment and strong
                          the Borrower and the                          performance of the services sector. With the exception of 2004,
                          Bank.                                         inflation has remained below 3 percent. Consolidated fiscal
                                                                        deficit declined by 3 percentage points of GDP between 2000
                                                                        and 2004. Although current account balance has increased the
                                                                        Government has been successful in keeping the level of public
                                                                        debt around 13 percent of GDP. Prudent fiscal and monetary
                                                                        policies as well as sound structural adjustment policies that are
                                                                        in place will ensure the overall stability of the macroeconomic
                                                                        framework in the medium term.

A.2. Objective: Ensuring financial viability of the pension system


Saeima has adopted        The Saeima has adoptedAll three tiers of the  PSAL 1 ­ fully met.
legislation to create the amendments to the Law pension system are in   State funded pension scheme (2nd tier) regulated by State
second tier of the        on State Pensions,       place.               Funded Pensions Law is operating since 2001. As of July 1,
pension system.           removing all                                  2001, the "State Funded Pension Law" took effect. It governs
                          prohibitions to working                       the operation of the 2nd pension tier. Coverage is mandatory
Ministry of Finance has and taking a pension,                           for persons born after July 1, 1971, but voluntary for those born
prepared acceptable       improving the equity of                       between July 2, 1951 and July 1, 1971.
implementation plan for   the pension system,
second tier.              curbing early                                 PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
                          retirement, and                               State non-funded pension scheme encourages work after
Ministry of Welfare has   regulating future                             pension age (i.e., the pensioners can work and receive
prepared plan for         indexation.                                   pension). From 2002, the lower pensions are indexed by partial
reforming PAYGO                                                         price-wage index and higher pensions by consumer price index.
pension system,           The Ministry of Welfare                       In 2004 the 2nd tier assets were managed by 9 asset managers
including communicationhas    reviewed the                              (8 of which were private), offering a total of 19 investment
plan, technical analysis  progress of the                               plans. Up until mid-2008 it would be possible to choose an
of reform options.        implementation of the                         early retirement option (this option will be eliminated
                          second tier pension                           afterwards).
                          system and has
                          developed regulations to                      Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
                          permit private asset                          The pension reform is completed and the 3- tier pension is in




                                                           - 35 -

                         management.                                       place.


                              B. STRENGTHENING THE CREDIBILITY OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR
B.1: Objective: Reducing risks and opportunities for corruption in Government and the Judiciary


                         The Saeima has adoptedAnticorruption.             PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
                         the "Law on the          Satisfactory progress on The Law "On Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau"
                         Corruption Prevention the implementation of       was adopted by the Parliament in 2002 and all the provisions
                         and Combating            the anti-corruption      mentioned under the PSAL 2 were included in that Law.
                         Bureau" with the         program, as measured
                         authority to: (a) detect for example by:          Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
                         and resolve ex ante                               The Director of the CPCB was appointed by the Parliament in
                         cases of conflict of     (i) Appointment of the   May 2004. This was the second appointment of the Director.
                         interest; (b) detect and head of the Corruption   The first Director was appointed by the time when the Bureau
                         evaluate possible cases Prevention and            was established in October 2002. The Bureau has been fully
                         of conflict of illicit   Combating Bureau         operational since February 2003.
                         enrichment; (c) monitor(CPCB); adoption of a
                         corruption and           structure that serves    Work of the CPCB is focused on the two main directions of
                         corruption prevention    functions; allocation of prevention and combating corruption. Education on corruption
                         in public sector bodies; sufficient human,        issues is an integral part of corruption prevention efforts.

                         (d) advise the Cabinet ofphysical, and financial  Budget for 2005 is approved at LVL 3.1 million, including

                         Ministers, individual    resources to the CPCB;   PHARE project funding. Currently there are 116 employees at

                         ministers, and other     adoption of              the CPCB and a proposal to extend number of staff positions

                         heads of public sector   performance indicators; has  been submitted to the Government.

                         bodies, on methods to    implementation of the
                         strengthen corruption    mechanism to monitor     Performance indicators are compiled every three months

                         prevention; (e) prepare and report on changes     internally within the Bureau through reports of all divisions.
                                                                           Reports on Bureau's activities are submitted to the Cabinet of
                         and evaluate legislation in corruption; the start Ministers at least every six months.
                         related to corruption    up of operations; and
                         prevention; and (f)                               Functions of control of financing of political parties and
                         educate officials and    (ii) Transfer of         examination of alleged conflict of interest situations have been
                         the public about         responsibility to the    undertaken since 2002 when the Bureau was set up.
                         corruption prevention. CPCB for investigating
                                                  possible cases of        In 2004 there were 30 criminal cases in the competence of the
                                                  conflict of interest and CPCB; administrative charges for not following provisions of
                                                  illicit enrichment and   the law "On Prevention of Conflict of Interests in Activities of
                                                  supervision of the       Public Officials" were brought against 74 pubic officials; 27
                                                  finances of political    cases of violations of financing of political parties were
                                                  parties.                 detected, 15 political parties are obliged to pay back to the
                                                                           state donations received in contradiction with regulations of
                                                                           party financing in total amount of 133,232 LVL. In accordance
                                                                           with the law ,,On Corruption Prevention and Combating
                                                                           Bureau" CPCB is performing these functions since February 1,
                                                                           2003.

An Executive Head of     The CPC Secretariat      The CPCB publishes (i) PSAL 1 ­ partly met.
the Secretariat to the   has published changes changes to and progress Head of the CPC was appointed in December 1999. There
CPC has been             to and progress in the   in the implementation of were only three staff positions at the CPC: (i) head of the CPC,
appointed, with          implementation of the    the Corruption           (ii) staff position for legal issues and (iii) staff position for
adequate staff positions Corruption Prevention    Prevention Program and public relation. Funding was not adequate.
and funds, including     Program.                 (ii) measures of changes
also for public                                   in corruption in the     PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
education.                                        public sector.           A progress report on the implementation of the Corruption
                                                                           Prevention Program was compiled and forwarded to the
CPC has published and                             The CPCB ensures that Cabinet of Ministers. This information was also published.
will continue on a                                the criteria used to     Using the financial assistance of the World Bank the CPC
quarterly basis, the                              establish public sector  developed a questionnaire for collecting statistics; however, no




                                                            - 36 -

status of implementation                              agencies and annually      further activities followed due to the insufficient staff and
of its Anticorruption                                 review their performance inadequate funding.
Program.                                              include criteria related to
                                                      the prevention of          Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
CPC has established a                                 corruption. These may      The Government in August 2004 adopted national Corruption
mechanism to monitor                                  include: (i) ex ante       Prevention and Combating Program for 2004-2008. The
and report on changes in                              clearance of the agency Program sets priorities and defined responsible institutions
corruption in the public                              head for conflict of       with their tasks and time frame for the implementation of 120
sector, based at least                                interest; (ii)             assignments in the area prevention and combating of
partly on feedback from                               implementation of          corruption, as well as in education of the public on corruption
the public; baselines                                 arrangements to ensure issues. The CPCB has submitted the first report to the
statistics are collected.                             public dissemination of Government on activities and results of the National Program
                                                      agency information, in     for Corruption Prevention and Combating for 2004-2008.
                                                      compliance with the
                                                      Petitions Act and the      In prevention of corruption CPCB conducted a survey on
                                                      Law on Information         Attitude towards Corruption and Corruption Prevention Policy
                                                      Access; (iii)              among the Latvian population. Results of the survey showed
                                                      implementation of          that the vast majority of respondents had not directly faced
                                                      appropriate complaint      corruption or manifestation of corruption. In most cases
                                                      and appeals mechanisms,information on corruptive offenses was received from mass
                                                      in compliance with the     media (80 percent of respondents) and more than half
                                                      Law on Administrative      respondents had heard on cases of corruption from their friends
                                                      Appeals; (iv)              and relatives. Whereas, percentage of people who used
                                                      implementation of          unauthorized payments to solve a problem remained rather
                                                      appropriate procedures     small (only 18.9 percent of respondents).
                                                      and safeguards in the
                                                      agency's procurement
                                                      system.

                          The new independent         The CPCB monitors that PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
                          financial utility regulator the risks of corruption in Representative from the CPC Secretariat participated regularly
                          Financial and Capital       draft laws and             in meetings of State Secretaries.
                          Market Commission has regulations are
                          been reviewed for its       adequately assessed.       The law "On Financial and Capital Market Commission" was
                          vulnerability to                                       adopted by the Parliament in 2000.
                          corruption. Its head has The CPCB implements
                          adopted an action plan to procedures for officials Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
                          implement the               and the public to report Director of the CPCB, as a member of State Secretaries'
                          recommendations.            on cases of corruption.    weekly meetings, is mandated to provide comments on the
                                                      These procedures           draft laws.
                          The CPC Secretariat has include a system for
                          reviewed seven key draft monitoring the                In implementing its functions the CPCB has made a number of
                          laws or regulations with disposition of these          amendments in current legislation including in the law On
                          regard to their             complaints.                Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public
                          vulnerability to                                       Officials, Administrative Violations Code, and the law On the
                          corruption.                                            Financing of Political Parties.

                                                                                 To facilitate the procedure for filing complaints, the CPCB
                                                                                 established a Report Center. The Report Center is responsible
                                                                                 for receiving reports on corruption cases from any person who
                                                                                 has come across a corruption situation. Reporting can be done
                                                                                 in person, in writing, by phone, e-mail, fax or even
                                                                                 anonymously.

                          The Latvian                 The LPA continues to       PSAL 2 ­ fully met,
                          Privatization Agency has invite a qualified NGO        NGOs were invited to participate in monitoring the
                          invited a qualified NGO to monitor key                 privatization process, when large companies were privatized.
                          to monitor key              privatizations.
                          privatizations.                                        Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.




                                                                - 37 -

                                                       The Latvian ProcurementThe civil society (including NGOs) could access information on
                                                       Office invites a qualified the decisions of the Council of the LPA, and the Board of the
                                                       NGO to monitor large        LPA.
                                                       procurements.
                                                                                   Contracting authorities invited qualified NGOs to monitor the
                                                                                   procurement procedures in cases of large procurements. The
                                                                                   public (including NGOs) can monitor the procurement
                                                                                   procedures using information which is published in PMB
                                                                                   website.

ACU has developed the A system has been                The CPCB (or the SRS PSAL 1 ­ fully met.
set of documents and        designed that requires     ACU) establishes            Annual declarations of public officials are regularly submitted
procedures to effectively politicians, ministers,      procedures for clearing     to the SRS. The declarations are publicly available in the
identify conflict of        state secretaries,         ex ante politicians,        databases of the SRS.
interest and cases of       procurement officials,     ministers, and other
illicit enrichment,         and other officials in     senior officials for        PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
including: (i) adequate     positions especially at    possible conflicts of       On May 10, 2002 the law "On Prevention of Conflict of
forms for declaration of risk of conflict of interestinterest. These include       Interest in Activities of Public Officials" came into force
income and assets; (ii) a to declare and resolve       procedures for: (i)         replacing the Corruption Prevention Law and stating duties of
draft manual and            their conflicts upon       recusing an official from Public Officials (Section 21). The law declares that the public
curriculum for training     assumption of their        deciding on issues for      official should provide information in writing to a higher
SRS staff in processing office and prior to            which s/he has a conflict,official regarding personal interest in relation to the lines of
and assessment of           realization of any         especially when assets      duties of their office. Public official should also provide
declarations; (iii) a draft conflict of interest. All  potentially creating        information on commercial companies in which the public
manual and curriculum other officials would be conflicts cannot be sold official is a shareholder, stockholder, partner, member of a
for training of the public required to declare and     or divested upon the        supervisory or executive body and which receive orders from
sector employees in         resolve their conflicts    official's assumption of relevant from the relevant State or local government authority
situations of conflict of   prior to any realization ofoffice and (ii) sale or     for the procurement for the state or local government needs,
interest.                   a conflict of interest.    divestiture upon the        State or local government financial resources or credits
                            Appropriate sanctions forofficial's assumption of guaranteed by the State or local governments. In such cases a
Annual declarations         failure to do so would be office of assets             higher public official shall assign the performance of the
submitted by the            imposed.                   potentially creating        functions to another public official.
President of the State,                                conflicts.
Prime Minister, Deputy                                                             Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
Prime Ministers,                                       The CPCB (or the SRS The CPCB examines declarations of all higher level public
ministers and                                          ACU) clears all state       officials on annual basis as stipulated by the law "On
parliamentary secretaries                              secretaries for possible    Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public
are published on an                                    conflicts of interest.      Officials".
annual basis.
                                                       The CPCB (or the SRS Examination of declaration or observance of regulations
                                                       ACU) prepares to clear regarding conflict of interest in activities of any public official
                                                       all politicians, ministers, can take place upon receiving any complaints, or on own
                                                       and other senior officials initiative. Clearing of ex ante situations on conflict of interest
                                                       that are elected or         takes place within the process of exchange of information
                                                       appointed as a              among institutions when an official has to receive a clearance
                                                       consequence of the          required for holding a position.
                                                       October 2002 elections.

                                                       A system for auditing
                                                       conflict of interest in
                                                       government is developed
                                                       and implemented.

                            The School of Public       CPCB (or CPC                PSAL 2, Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
                            Administration (SoPA) Secretariat in                   The CPCB has conducted workshops on conflict of interest
                            has prepared a draft       collaboration with the      issues for officials of the Ministry of Economy, Security Police,
                            manual and curriculum SRS ACU) conducts                Ministry of Education, Ministry of Integration, Ministry of
                            for training public sector specialized workshops       Interior, Latvian Development and Investment Agency and in a
                            employees in conflict of on conflict of interest for number of municipalities as well as for managers and directors




                                                                 - 38 -

interest.                 (i) Parliamentarians; (ii) of educational institutions.
                          Ministers; (iii) State
The SoPA has trained its Secretaries and Deputy      Training for public administration employees and civil servants
instructors to teach      State Secretaries; (iv)    is offered. Training courses are also offered on corruption
conflict of interest. The SRS staff; (v) judges,     prevention and conflict of interest.
SoPA will train all new and (vi) other important
public officials in       groups.                    There have been TV programs on the state television regarding
conflict of interest.                                prevention of corruption and a number of information
                          The School of Public       campaigns. In order to promote the public confidence in the
The CPC Secretariat has Administration trains all CPCB's activities, the Public Consultative Council has been
conducted a workshop      new public and existing established. The Public Consultative Council includes
with: (i) judges; (ii)    public officials in        members from the NGO, mass media and private sector.
prosecutors; and (iii)    conflict of interest;
police on enforcement of conflict of interest        Issues related to the conflict of interest are included in the
the Law on Corruption     training continues to be following two training courses offered by the School of Public
Prevention.               mandatory for all new      Administration: (i) combating corruption; and, (ii) conflict of
                          public officials.          interests. The first course is two- day training and consists of
The CPC Secretariat has                              four modules. One module is devoted for the questions on
provided civic education The CPCB (or SPC            conflict of interests. In 2004, a total of 12 courses were offered
on corruption prevention.Secretariat) continues to and 269 participants have been trained. Mandatory course for
                          provide civic education new civil servants includes issues on corruption and ethics.
                          on corruption prevention.The CPC Secretariat conducted several workshops for officials
                                                     and also implemented an extensive educational campaign on
                                                     corruption prevention within the PHARE project for schools
                                                     and students.

Law on "Political Party New disclosure forms         PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
Financing" has been       are used which require     Law on "Financing of Political Parties" which was first
adopted, which            more detailed              adopted in 1995, has been amended several times to clarify
stipulates: (i) more      information on the         procedures and requirements.
precise disclosure        revenues and
procedures to report on expenditures of political Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
election campaign         parties.                   Starting March 2004 political parties have to submit annual
expenditures; (ii)                                   reviews on financial activities in addition to previously
assignment of             The unit responsible for required annual financial declarations, pre-election
monitoring political      reviewing the accuracy     declarations and declarations after the elections.
party finances to         and completeness of
independent body          financial disclosures      Section 8 in the Law "On Financing of Political Parties"
                          adopts and publishes       describes requirements regarding the information to be
                          procedures for auditing included in declarations of political parties. Content
                          the disclosures.           requirements, structural composition as well as submission and
                                                     examination procedures of those reviews are stipulated by
                          The disclosures of         Regulations issued by the Cabinet of Ministers in July 2004.
                          political parties are
                          published on a timely      Every political party has to submit information to the CPCB on
                          basis.                     received donations within 7 days and all the information are
                                                     published on the website of the CPCB. The responsible unit
                          Small grants are           reviews completeness and content of those reviews. All
                          provided to qualified      reviews and disclosures of political parties are available on the
                          NGOs to monitor            home page of the CPCB, including the amounts of donations
                          political party financing. and the names of the contributors.

                                                     The CPCB made an agreement with public policy center
                                                     "Providus" to cooperate in monitoring pre-election campaign
                                                     for local elections, held in spring 2005. The CPCB also has
                                                     received from OECD/SIGMA a proposal for the Public Sector
                                                     Ethics Resource Project. The objectives are to support training
                                                     and capacity building activities on corruption prevention,
                                                     ethics, professionalism and conflict of interest, targeted at state




                                    - 39 -

                                                                                officials and all levels of public administration in Latvia,
                                                                                including representatives of municipalities as well as officials
                                                                                of the State Revenue Service.

The Minister of Justice MoJ has adopted a             Satisfactory progress in PSAL 1 ­ partly met.
has issued an instruction Medium term strategic       the implementation of     Transparency in communication of judges with litigants is
to provide for greater      action plan for the       the medium-term action highlighted    in the Law on Criminal Procedure (to come into
transparency in             reform of the judicial    plan for judicial reform,force  on October 1, 2005.), Law on Civil Procedure and its
communications betweensystem, which                   as measured for           amendments (March 1, 1999.), and the Law on Administrative
judges and litigants in     incorporates actions to:  example by:               Procedure (February 1, 2004.).
criminal and civil cases, (i) increase efficiency,
specifically requiring: (i) (ii) to strengthen        (i) Publication on a      The Law "On Appointment of Judges for Review of Court
all opposing parties to be incentives, (iii)          semiannual basis of       Cases" was passed in the first reading by the Parliament.
represented in any          guarantee independence,   agreed performance        The Judicial training center delivers training for judges of the
contacts with judges        (iv) enhance              indicators by the         city courts and regional courts. Negotiations have started
(reform of ex-parte         transparency and          Ministry of Justice, for  regarding training for prosecutors. Prosecutors are currently
contact) and (ii) if all    openness, and (v) collect example, on public        being invited to seminars organized for judges. The judicial
parties cannot be           feedback from the public  confidence in the         training plan elaborates on an annual training schedule.
represented then the                                  judiciary; and            Candidate judges are subject to a training program and work in
communications to be                                                            different kinds of courts prior to their appointment.
recorded; further a         The Ministry of Justice
system for monitoring       has published, on an      (ii) Implementation of a PSAL
                                                      time-bound action plan           2 ­ fully met.
implementation of this      annual basis, statistics  by the Ministry of        When building new courts (or renovating the old ones) the
procedure is designed.      on changes in its         Justice for               principle of ex-parte communication is observed. All court
                            performance.                                        decisions are available through the LURSOFT database for a
Minister of Justice has                               strengthening its         limited cost. The system of cumulative indexing of court cases
issued an instruction       MoJ has conducted a       monitoring of             is established.
mandating an element of review of its system for      commercial cases,

randomization in            monitoring the            administrative cases,     The justice information system project (TIS) is being
assignment of judges to performance of courts         and public confidence     implemented and its future planned activities are scheduled
handle court cases where and judges, with an aim      in the judiciary.         until 2009.
appropriate; a system for to strengthen its
monitoring                  monitoring of (i)         Dissemination of the      Planned PSAL 3 ­ partly met.
implementation of this      commercial cases; (ii)    medium-term strategy      The medium term actions and several amendments to the Law
procedure is designed.      administrative cases;     for judicial reform to theon Judiciary were implemented. Conceptual changes to the
                            (iii) public confidence inpublic                    judiciary in Latvia are foreseen in the new Law on Judicial
The Minister of Justice the judiciary; it has                                   Power, which will be submitted to Parliament.
has issued an instruction,discussed the review's      The Ministry of Justice

which requires all court recommendations in a         begins to implement its   The MoJ publishes annual public review on the performance of
decisions and rulings to workshop that includes       action plan for           the Ministry. The Court Administration publishes annual
be published with a         the participation of      integrating justice       reviews on performance of Latvian courts. The MoJ
system of cumulative        judges; a draft           information systems.      periodically conducts public surveys to review indicators of
indexing. The               instrument for                                      public confidence in the judiciary. Information on
publications are stored     monitoring public         The Ministry of Justice   developments within the judicial sector is published regularly
electronically and are      confidence has been       has prepared a            through mass media.
available to the public at prepared.                  time-bound plan for: (i)

low cost in those courts                              integrating the

that are computerized.      The Ministry of Justice   information systems of

                            has prepared a            the procuracy and courts

The Minister of Justice time-bound plan for           and (ii) adding

has issued an instruction integrating information     information about court

providing for (i) training systems of lower courts    execution into this

of judges and               and Supreme Court         system.

prosecutors in new laws
prior to their enactment; All renovated or new        All court decisions and

(ii) appropriate budget     court buildings meet the  rulings are available

allocation to the Judicial demands of ex-parte        electronically at low

Training Center to          communication reforms.    cost.

comply with the
                                                      An appropriate system of



                                                                - 40 -

requirement referred to An appropriate system of cumulative
above. The Judicial        cumulative indexing has                indexing has

Training Center prepares been developed for          been developed for civil

a three-year training plancriminal cases.            cases.


B.2: Objective: Strengthen transparency and reporting of the ministries and bodies subordinated, supervised or managed by them


The Cabinet of Ministers The Saeima has adoptedSatisfactory                   PSAL 1, PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
has adopted concept for the Law "On the              implementation of the    Law on the Institutional Framework for Public Administration
the Law On the             Framework of Public       Administrative           adopted on June 6, 2002, is in force since January 1, 2003.
Institutional Framework    Administration".          Procedure Law, as        "Law on Public Sector Agencies" adopted on March 22, 2001.
for Public                                           measured for example
Administration, which      The Saiema has adoptedby publication, on an        Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
defines the kinds of       the "Law on Public        annual basis, of a       The Ministry of Justice plans to develop a questionnaire for
public institutions within Sector  Agencies".        statistical report on    public to find out progress in the implementation of the
the public sector.                                   appeals and users'       Administrative Procedure Law and satisfaction with the work
                           The Borrower, through satisfaction with the        of the administrative courts. Some decisions of regional
Law on the Institutional its  Cabinet of Ministers procedures; and            administrative court are already published with the assistance
Framework for Public       has adopted a                                      of Courthouse Agency. Statistical report on appeals for the year
Administration has         regulation identifying: All agencies have been     2004 is also available.
been submitted to          (a) criteria for the role reviewed and the
Saeima.                    and responsibilities of   Cabinet makes decision   108 institutions, enterprises, non-profit state enterprises have
                           each public agency; (b)   on their status.         been evaluated and reviewed with regards to their functions
Concept for the Law On     the mechanism through                              and their capacity for policy planning.
Public Sector Agencies     which a public agency     At least 25 existing
has been adopted by the    can be created; and (c)   non-profit state         Satisfactory progress has been made when transforming state
Cabinet of Ministers,      criteria on which to      enterprises are          (local government) entities into public agencies in accordance
which defines: (i) types   decide which agencies     converted into agencies  with the Public Sector Agency law. As a result, 30 public
of agencies; (ii)          to divest.                to make them consistent agencies  have been established. Non-profit state and municipal
regulations for the                                  with the Law on Public   enterprises no longer exist.
formation of agencies of   The Cabinet of Ministers Sector Agencies which
various types; (iii)       has agreed on a list of   defines a transparent,   Evaluation of state commercial entities will be done every
procedure for agency       public sector             accountable, and         three years to ensure transparency, accountability and
approval; (iv) procedure   organizations that will befinancial management     effectiveness of financial management.
to ensure openness; (v)    reviewed according to     regime for all public
mechanisms for             the law on Public Sector sector agencies.
accounting mechanisms      Agencies.
and financial control,
including requirements
for reports; (vi) adequate
provisions for
transitions; and (vii)
state liability conditions.

Law on Public Sector
Agencies has been
submitted to Saeima.

Cabinet of Ministers
has adopted measure to
impose a Moratorium
on the creation on
agencies till Saeima
passes Law on Public
Sector Agencies.

Cabinet of Minister has The Borrower through A time-bound action              PSAL 1, PSAL 2, Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
adopted implementing its Ministry of Justice         Plan is adopted which:   Cabinet regulation 231 (June 11, 2002) "On the structure of
                                                     (i) establishes capacity annual reports of public sector bodies" was adopted. the new



                                                               - 41 -

regulations for the Law has assigned the task to
on Openness of           provide guidance and     in public-sector bodies toregulations on information that must be included in annual
Information, stipulating coordinate the           respond to public          reports of public sector bodies have been prepared. In addition
(i) institutional        implementation of the    requests for information; to the information on evaluation of outputs and impact
arrangements for         Petitions Act and the    (ii) report on compliance assessment, actions have taken place to improve the quality of
ensuring easy access to  Law on Openness of       with the law; and (iii)    services, management systems, financial situation and
public information,      Information to the data  educate public on          personnel.Regulations also require information on activities of
including publication of inspection unit.         procedures for obtaining institutions and cooperation with NGO sector.
the procedures in the                             Government documents.
annual reports of state                                                      To start tackling the problem of information openness,
bodies; (ii) mechanisms                           Significant progress in    and to assign an institution responsible for the
for individuals to appeal                         implementation of action   implementation of the Law on Openness of Information,
denials of information;                           plan is achieved in all    the Government put the State Data Protection
and (iii) a system for                            Ministries.                Inspectorate in charge of the implementation of that
monitoring the                                    Secretariat of MoPSR
compliance of state                               has submitted to the       Law.

bodies with the law.                              Cabinet of Ministers
                                                  regulations on the
                                                  structure of annual
                                                  reports of public sector
                                                  bodies; regulations are
                                                  adopted by the Cabinet
                                                  of Ministers.

                                                  Annual reports of
                                                  public-sector bodies
                                                  include information on:
                                                  (i) rights of public to
                                                  information; (ii)
                                                  procedures for public to
                                                  access information; (iii)
                                                  measures of fulfillment
                                                  of public requests for
                                                  information; inclusion of
                                                  this information in the
                                                  annual reports is
                                                  institutionalized.

                         Surveys are conducted byThe Secretariat of the      PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
                         LDA and reports          MoPSR monitors the         LDA (Latvian Development Agency) was merged into LIDA
                         published on private     publication of annual      (the Latvian Investment and Development Agency) in 2003. It
                         sector and public's      reports by public sector has performed and published surveys on evaluation of
                         opinion on the           bodies; MoF monitors       performance of various institutions.
                         performance of various   financial reporting
                         institutions.            requirements.              Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
                                                                             Annual reports are published on the internet.
                                                  All regulatory bodies
                                                  have implemented
                                                  reporting requirements
                                                  which are posted on the
                                                  internet.

                         The Saiema has adopted Action plan to bring all PSAL 2, Planned PSAL 3 ­ partly met.
                         the Administrative       public sector institutions The Law on Administrative Procedure came into force on
                         Procedure Law (APL),     into compliance with thisFebruary 1, 2004. The Administrative courts started operating
                         which protects the       law is adopted.            on February 2, 2004. Thus the new Administrative procedure
                         individual's right to                               law could be fully enforced. This also involved conducting the
                         appeal decisions of the  Progress is made in        selection procedure of judges of the administrative courts.
                         state; this law defines: implementing this action




                                                             - 42 -

                           (i) the procedure for     plan.                    The line ministries conducted training seminars for their
                           appealing administrative                           employees on APL. Trainers were also provided for the judges
                           decisions to decision     A system for monitoring of the Supreme Courts, Deputy State Secretary of the MoJ and
                           making institutions; (ii) compliance with the APLadvisers of the Minister of Justice.
                           the procedure for         law is designed; this
                           appealing administrative system will include       There is now a mechanism on how to harmonize legislative
                           decisions to the          publication, on an annualacts with APL. All harmonization procedures are completed.
                           Judiciary; and (iii)      basis, of a statistical
                           adequate enforcement of report on appeals and
                           decisions taken during    users' satisfaction with
                           appeals process.          the procedures.

                           The Borrower has
                           adopted a time-bound
                           plan for the
                           implementation of the
                           Administrative
                           Procedure Law and
                           identified one staff in
                           each ministry, which
                           has been assigned the
                           responsibility for
                           implementing this law
                           is that ministry.

                             C. STRENGTHENING THE PUBLIC SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
C1: Objective: Streamline the structure of the public sector and increase its administrative efficiency and transparency


The Secretariat of         The Cabinet of Ministers The Secretariat of        PSAL 1 - fully met.
MoPSR has prepared a       has adopted an updated MoPSR publishes in the Public sector Reform program adopted by Cabinet of Ministers
program (blueprint) with and revised Medium          official Gazette, on a   on July 10, 2001.
attached to it an action   Term Public Sector        semiannual basis,
plan to implement public Reform Program, which progress in the                Public sector Reform Council established by Cabinet of
administration reform,     includes clear            implementation of its    Ministers regulation No 372 on July 8, 2003.
which includes: (i) clear assignment of              reform program.
assignment of              responsibilities and                               PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
responsibilities for the   deadlines for the                                  Public Administration Reform Council is informed on a regular
design and coordination implementation of                                     basis about the current status of the implementation of the
of the specific elements specific Public Sector                               action plan for the public administration reform process. Also
of the reform program;     reforms.                                           annual public administration conferences serve as discussion
(ii) an allocation of staff                                                   forum and information exchange about the process of reforms
and budgetary resources The Cabinet of Ministers                              among public bodies. Ex post evaluation plan is drafted for
commensurate with this has established a Public                               year 2005-2006, to prepare next planning period for PAR.
assignment of              Sector Reform
responsibilities.          Coordinating Council, to                           Planned PSAL 3 ­ partly met.
                           be supported by the                                Since January 10, 2003 the function of Public administration
The Secretariat of         Secretariat of the                                 reform policy is transferred to State Chancellery. Several areas
MoPSR has designed a MoPSR.                                                   of reform strategy are revised, ex-post evaluation of reform
mechanism to monitor                                                          program will be prepared in 2006. The annual reporting would
and report to the Cabinet The Borrower, through                               be more appropriate than semiannual reporting, which covers
of Ministers and public its Cabinet of Ministers                              too short a period.
on changes in public       has adopted a
sector management          time-bound action plan
performance.               for the implementation
                           of the Medium Term
                           Public Sector Reform
                           Program in all line
                           ministries.




                                                               - 43 -

                           Public Sector Reform
                           Coordinating Council
                           has established a
                           mechanism to monitor
                           and report on the
                           implementation of the
                           Medium Term Public
                           Sector Reform Program.

Secretariat of MoPSR       The Borrower through The Cabinet of Ministers PSAL 1 - fully met.
monitors the               its MoPSR has designed has adopted a                The PSAL 1 measures have been implemented in the
implementation of the      and piloted a             time-bound plan by        mentioned ministries.
action plan of             methodology for           which remaining
reorganization of the      conducting functional     ministries will be        PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
Ministry of Agriculture    reviews which are to be   subjected to a functional Methodology for functional reviews were approved by the
to ensure that the action  used to support the 2003review   and how the        Cabinet of Ministers order No 579 (October 16, 2002). Since
plan meets the need to:    budget preparation in     review will be used       January 10, 2003 the function of Public administration reform
(i) integrate into the EU; selected ministries and   thereafter.               policy is one of the tasks of State Chancellery.
(ii) bring the Ministry    shall, inter alia,
into conformity with       include: (a) a            Implementation of the     Public Administration Performance Audit Department, which
future laws on the         methodology to review     key recommendations of is in charge of financial and functional audits in various
Institutional Framework    and identify priority     functional reviews has    agencies, enterprises and non-profit state enterprises was
for Public                 policies and programs,    progressed without        established in 2003. Ministry of Health and the Health
Administration and on      and (b) a memorandum      undue delay.              Compulsory Insurance state agency were reviewed to identify
Public Sector Agencies;    of understanding                                    priority policies and programs.
(iii) establish clear linesbetween the central
of accountability and      agencies and the line                               Planned PSAL 3 ­ partly met.
reporting; and (iv)        ministries to be                                    Functional reviews of ministries cannot be carried out
strengthen systems for     reviewed regarding                                  separately from the elaboration of strategic plans for ministries,
measuring the                                                                  which are at the stage of elaboration and shall be prepared for
substantive and financial  what will be done with                              the 2007 budget process. Principles of functional   review
performance of bodies      the results of the review                           methodology have been used in the process of institutional
managed by the ministry.The                                                    system (including agencies) reform. 108 institutions,
                                Borrower has                                   enterprises, non-profit state enterprises have been evaluated
                           allocated resources to                              and reviewed with a regard to their functions and capacity of
Secretariat of MoPSR       support the functional                              policy planning.
has completed the          reviews, and to train at

interviews for the in      least three staff in the

depth functional review    functional review
of the Ministry of         methodology.
Economy.

Secretariat of MoPSR
has launched the in
depth review of the
functions of the Ministry
of Justice.

C.2: Objective: Strengthen Human Resource Management by improving incentives for recruitment and retention of high quality
staff


Cabinet of Ministers       The Borrower, through The Cabinet of                PSAL 1 ­ fully met.
has adopted the concept its Ministry of Finance Ministers has adopted          On May 29, 2003 the Cabinet of Ministers approved the
for a broad-banded,        has prepared: (i) a draft regulation on pay         Concept paper on optimization of pay systems for public sector
transparent uniform        regulation on pay         reform, including a       employees.
pay scale in the public reform; and (ii)             detailed schedule for its
sector, which rewards      estimates of the cost of implementation and         PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
merit and minimizes        its implementation. The actual implementation       Progress on pay reform was slow until recently. On February



                                                              - 44 -

discretionary and ad hoc Cabinet of Ministers         has started              21, 2005 The Cabinet of Ministers approved the Concept paper
bonuses and which           has: (a) reviewed the                              on unified pay system for public sector employees. The
includes: (i) job           draft and cost            The database on public   Concept elaborates on a fair and effective (unified, motivating,
descriptions at a           estimates; (b) accepted   sector employment, pay,  transparent and competitive) pay system for the public sector
sufficient level of         the draft in principle;   and functions is         employees.
dis-aggregation; (ii)       and (c) adopted a         established, with regular
criteria to be used in      schedule requiring the    procedures for updating  One of the key principles of the new pay system is a unified
defining pay for specific   MoF to provide the        the information.         approach to different jobs and positions in the public sector
public sector wide jobs;    Cabinet of Ministers by                            where job responsibilities require different knowledge,
(iii) levels of pay that areOctober  8, 2002 detailed                          education and experience. The first step of pay reform is to
competitive with the        options for the phasing                            classify all public sector jobs (positions) according to Job's
private sector for basic    in of the pay reform .                             classification system, which is determined by the Cabinet of
professions and                                                                Ministers regulations Nr.310 "Regulations on job classification
competitive with a          Ministry of Finance has                            system of direct administration institutions (public sector)" of
medium term budget          conducted a survey of the                          May 3, 2005 and implemented in public sector.
framework; (iv) census      existing pay structure.
and methodology for a                                                          Planned PSAL 3 ­ partly met.
statistical database on     A workshop has been                                Currently the civil servants and employees positions and jobs
pay, employment, and        conducted for state                                have been classified into Job families (43) and Job levels (from
functions in the public     secretaries and deputy                             2 to 6 which depend on job complexity: simple or complicated
sector to be used in        state secretaries to                               job duties). These data are necessary for calculation of
planning and control of     discuss pay concept.                               financial resources for implementation of the new pay system.
pay and staff                                                                  The next step is time schedule preparation, including the
development (see                                                               transition period, for increasing wages in the public sector to
above); (v) compatibility                                                      75­80 percent of wages in the private sector. Implementation
with Civil Service                                                             period would be from 2006 until 2010. To implement the new
development; and (vi)                                                          pay system, the Cabinet of Ministers also needs to make a
principles for transiting                                                      decision on allocation of the required financial resources.
to the new system.
                                                                               Currently the Ministry of Finance is developing draft
Ministry of Finance has                                                        regulation on the new pay system for civil servants and for
designed the                                                                   employees of the public institutions. The draft regulation of the
methodology for a survey                                                       new pay system and time table for implementation will be
of the existing structure                                                      submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers by October 2005. The
of pay, to be used to                                                          new pay system is going to be in force from January 1, 2006.
design the new pay                                                             For the transition period, the Cabinet of Ministers has adopted
system.                                                                        the Regulations 959 "on wages and salaries for civil servants
                                                                               and public institutions employees" on November 23, 2004,
                                                                               which came into force on the 1st January 2005 and will be in
                                                                               force until January 1, 2006.

The Cabinet of Ministers Procedure for                Performance reviews are PSAL 1 ­ fully met.
has submitted the Law       performance reviews has institutionalized.         Law on Civil Service was adopted on September 7, 2000.
on Civil Service to         been established.
Saeima, which is                                      Yearly reports on the    PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
harmonized with the         Training of managers in development of the Civil CoM Instruction No.2 "Order of appraisal of performance and
reform of comprehensive conducting performance Service are                     results of civil servant work" adopted on March 2, 2001,
public sector pay system reviews has been             institutionalized.       provides for training of managers on performance reviews.
and improving the           conducted.
system of incentives for                                                       Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
public servants through: First round of                                        State Civil Service Administration (SCSA) publishes yearly
(i) performance reviews performance reviews has                                reports that consist of two main parts: review of the
administered by             been completed.                                    institutional changes; and, the analysis of civil service
superiors, (ii)                                                                development.
performance of the          The MoPSR Secretariat
servants in conformity      has prepared and
with ethic principles.      submitted secondary
                            legislation to the Cabinet
                            for implementation of




                                                                - 45 -

                         the Civil Service Law by
                         January 2001.

C.3: Improving Public Expenditure Management
C.3.a: Objective : Develop transparent and unified public accounts


1. Comprehensiveness                                                PSAL 1, PSAL2, - fully met.
of the budget                                                       The Law "On budget and finance management"(entered into
                                                                    force April 21, 1994) determines the procedures for the
1.1. Bringing Budget                                                formulation, approval and implementation of the State budget
Financed Institutions                                               and local government budgets, and responsibilities in the
(BFI) into the Budget                                               budget process and it states that the State Treasury performs
                         MoF has brought all                        the functions of control and accounting i.e. budget financial
Saeima has passed        BFIs in the budget of                      accounting. Amendments on bringing all accounts of Budget
amendments to the Law    2002.                                      financed institution into the Law entered into force on January
on Budget and                                                       1, 2000. All budget-financed institutions submit their reports
Financial Management                                                according to order that is set by Cabinet of Ministers regulation
(LBFM) bringing all      MoF ensures that new                       Nr.999 (entered into force on December 4, 2004). Therefore
accounts of the BFI      agencies open accounts                     the system ensures transparency of all budget financed
into the Budget,         only with Treasury                         institution activities.
introducing a
requirement for state    Ministries and central                     The Law on Public Sector Agencies (entered into force April
institutions to submit   public institutions                        25, 2001) ensures effective compliance of State and local
annual audited reports   submit financial reports                   government functions according to the existing legal acts as

to the State Treasury as of business companies                      well as provides for transparent usage of financial resources in

of 2001 and gives        managed by them to the                     State and local governments. The law states that all State or

powers to the Ministry   State Treasury in                          local government entities and entities that are established as

of Finance to require    compliance with the                        non-profit were to be transformed into public agencies on or

and define reports on    procedure set forth in the                 before December 31, 2002. In general, there are two types of

the operations of all    Cabinet of Ministers                       public agencies: state public agencies; and, local government

subordinate enterprises. regulation 111.                            public agencies. All new public agencies open their accounts
                                                                    with the Treasury, unless specific permission is given by MoF
                         MoF has agreed to                          to open separate accounts in commercial banks.

MoF has issued           submit monitoring of

instructions to BFIs and financial indicators for

commercial banks that    the previous financial

all accounts in          year to the Cabinet of
commercial banks shouldMinisters    on an annual

be transferred to the    basis by September 30.

Treasury.

The Treasury has proof
that BFI, corresponding
to at least 30% of state
budget, currently holding
accounts in commercial
banks, hold accounts
exclusively with
Treasury.

MoF has prepared
principles for budget
2001 preparation for all
BFIs to be brought back
into budget, including
revenue/expenditure
classification.




                                                        - 46 -

1.2. Establishing Central
register for institutions
under the management of
ministries

Cabinet of Ministers has
adopted regulation for
the financial reporting of
agencies.

2. Transparency of         Issues related to        Issues related to        See B.2.
budget (Issues related to implementation of the     implementation of the
moratorium on creation Public Sector Agency         Public Sector Agency
of new agencies and        Law: See B.2             Law: See B.2
Public Sector Agency
Law: See B.2)

3. Fungibility of the      The Cabinet of Ministers As part of the ministry  PSAL 2, Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
budget                     has agreed to no new (i) ceiling setting process, From 2004 state budget contains only one special budget with
                           earmarking of taxes and the Cabinet of Ministers earmarked social security payments.
                           (ii) creation of own     has identified the
                           revenue for special      policies and programs    Other ministries policies and programs initially financed by
                           budgets.                 financed by special      special budget from 2004 are included in basic budget.
                                                    budgets, which are to be
                                                    reviewed until next
                                                    year's ceiling setting
                                                    process.

                                                    Ministries submit their
                                                    policy and programs
                                                    reviews to Cabinet of
                                                    Ministers, and Cabinet
                                                    of Ministers uses the
                                                    results in setting the
                                                    budget priorities
                                                    statement for 2003.

C.3.b: Objective : strengthen accountability for the use of resources

1. Strengthening           The SAO has developed All Central                 PSAL 1 ­ fully met.
Financial External         methodology to estimate Governments' accounts The SAO prepared Strategic plan for 2000-2004, which
Audit function             budget coverage of audit are audited on a yearly  includes recommendations from SIGMA per review in 1999.
The State Audit Office     plan.                    basis.                   The Strategic Plan was adopted on December 15, 1999 and its
(SAO) has prepared and                                                       amendments were approved on February 3, 2003.
adopted an action plan to The audit plan for 2001 Audit Reports are
strengthen its             encompasses an           published.               PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
functioning as to provide estimated minimum 20                               On May 9, 2002 the Saeima adopted the new State Audit
full financial attestation percent of basic and
audit.                     special budgets.                                  Office Law, which became effective on June 12, 2002. It
                                                                             provided consolidation of the audit system, broadening of the

SAO has submitted a        SAO has undertaken                                scope of work of the SAO, including auditing of the EU funds

program of audits for      audit of                                          and increasing audit quality.
2000 to the Parliament     accounting/reporting
for information.           standards of the Central                          Since 2002, the annual audit plan encompasses all basic and
                           Budget institutions'                              special budgets. Accordingly to the new law the SAO, by May
                           under SAO purview                                 1, would provide its views annually regarding the correctness
                           (based on FTI report).                            of the annual reports of all ministries, central State institutions
                                                                             and local governments. The SAO would provide each year its
                           The action plan to                                views to the Parliament regarding the annual financial reports



                                                              - 47 -

                          strengthen State Audit                            submitted by the Minister of Finance concerning the
                          functions on financial                            implementation of the State budget and the budgets of local
                          management has been                               governments. The SAO would also submit this opinion to the
                          implemented.                                      Ministry of Finance by 15 September (Article 3.1).

                          Budget for external audit                         The SAO submits reports to the Parliament and the Cabinet of
                          increased to meet                                 Ministers in cases when a negative opinion has been issued,
                          requirements for                                  (Article 3.3). Each Audit report is submitted to the audited
                          increase in number of                             entity.The SAO publishes annual report, which includes the
                          deliverable outputs                               number of audit reports submitted to the Parliament,
                                                                            recommendations and corrective measures adopted. Also the
                          Publication of the                                SAO produces a report on results of audit work on a quarterly
                          number of: (i) audit                              basis.
                          reports to Saeima; (ii)
                          formal interpretations by                         The new Strategic plan for 2005-2009 was adopted on
                          Saiema to the Executive;                          December 10, 2004 (Article 3.2).
                          (iii) corrective measures
                          adopted; (iv) corrective                          Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
                          measures taken.                                   All Central Governments' accounts have been audited on a
                                                                            yearly basis since 2002. All audit opinions and the SAO
                                                                            decisions are published on Web site in SAO's home page since
                                                                            May 1999. The SAO also issues a monthly informative journal
                                                                            "Valsts Kontroles V·stis". Since 2004 each journal has focused
                                                                            on a specific theme on the audit work results.

                                                                            Budget for external audit has increased each year. The number
                                                                            of staff has increased from 190 in 2000 to 226 in 2005.


2. Audit of BFIs          The Government has                                PSAL 1, PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
                          agreed to exercise its                            Since non-profit state enterprises were converted into state
Review of 1998 accounts right as owner of BFIs to                           agencies, procedures for accounting mechanisms and financial
and financial audit       require audits from                               control and requirements for financial report have been defined
reports of                agencies. The                                     by the Law on Public Sector Agencies (came into force on
budget-financed           Government also agrees                            April 25, 2001).
institutions by external  on sanctions to be taken
accountants has started. against non-compliant
Conclusions of the report BFIs.
to be submitted to
Cabinet.                  MoF has reported to the
                          Cabinet of Ministers on
                          the compliance of all
                          BFIs with regulations on
                          financial statements.

3. Strengthening the      MoF has presented an     MoF reports to Cabinet PSAL 1 ­ fully met.
internal audit function Annual compiled audit      on implementation of the In accordance with the legislation all internal audit units issue
                          report to Cabinet.       annual compiled reports' and regularly update:
Internal audit strategic                           recommendations.         - Strategic plan for three-five year period;
plan for 3 years has been Cabinet of Ministers has                          - Annual plan;
adopted in MoF,           discussed compiled       All ministries perform   - Long term plan for not less than five year period;
Ministries of Transport, reports submitted by      internal audit based on  - Training plan.
Environment and           MoF and Internal Audit agreed plan ad corrective The Annual reports of each internal audit unit are developed
Agriculture focusing in Council, and has taken a actions taken if           and sent to the MoF for submission to the Cabinet and SAO.
particular on the         decision on the report's necessary.
following audit           recommendations, has                              PSAL 2, Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met
functions: systems and    taken a decision on      Extension of peer review The audit system has been based on the International Internal
compliance audits.        follow up mechanisms     role by the MoF to all   Audit Standards.
                          and will follow the      ministries.
Realistic annual plans    implementation of                                 The ministry or institution that the Cabinet of Ministers or the



                                                             - 48 -

with monitorable        decisions.                Pilot internal audit units Saeima has empowered to perform the functions of
outputs, e.g. # audit                             evaluated by Audit         implementing institution shall perform internal audits of fully
performed, has been     Internal audits as per    Council.                   or partially financed programs and projects of the European
approved in above line  2000 agreement in pilot                              Commission, including those in the municipalities and
ministries.             ministries performed and                             business companies which have received funding under
                        corrective actions taken.                            European Commission programs or projects.
Procedures have been    Monitoring of actions by
prepared by the MoF for the internal audit                                   According to the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No 306 of
the follow up and       department and regular                               June 10, 2003. Procedure to perform the internal audit within
monitoring of compiled reporting to State                                    institution a system of reporting on staff changes has been
audits' recommendations secretary.                                           established and MoF summarizes this information on all public
in above ministries.                                                         institutions and submits the summary to the Audit Council.
                        Agreement on 2001 audit
Ministry of Finance has plan for all ministries.                             The coordinating role of the Internal Audit Department in the
developed methodology                                                        MoF to:
for peer review.        Establishment of Audit                               - Coordinate and manage the establishment and development
                        Council with defined                                 of internal audit in public service;
More heads of audit     responsibilities.                                    - Develop methodology, guidance and manuals of the internal
units have been                                                              audit
appointed.              Implementation of peer                               - Coordinate training and professional qualification;
                        review role by the MoF                               - Provide a central reference point for internal audit
                        in pilot ministries has                              knowledge and materials;
                        continued.                                           - Provide peer reviews;
                                                                             - Provide reporting to the Internal Audit Council.
                                                                             In order to perform regular communication among internal
                                                                             auditors of the ministries and institutions there are monthly
                                                                             meetings organized by the MoF covering essential internal
                                                                             audit work issues.

                                                                             The Internal Audit operation has been set up based on the
                                                                             following legal foundation:
                                                                             1. Latvian Law "Internal Audit Law" of October 31, 2002.
                                                                             2. The Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No 306 of June 10,
                                                                             2003 Procedure to perform the internal audit within institution.
                                                                             3. The Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No 305 of June 10,
                                                                             2003 Regulation of the internal audit Council.
                                                                             4. The Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No 307 of June 10,
                                                                             2003 Certification Procedure of the internal auditors.
                                                                             5. Code of Ethics.

4. Strengthen           Saeima has adopted the Strengthen the bid            PSAL 2 ­fully met.
procurement             law on public             protest mechanism and      The Law On Public Procurement has been in force since
management              procurement               introduce administrative January 1, 2002. Also secondary legislation is in place. The
                                                  review of bidders'         Procurement Supervision Bureau has been operating since
                        Secondary regulations     protest.                   January 1, 2002.
                        has been brought more
                        closely in line with      Draft standard             Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
                        internationally           pre-qualification and      The bid protest mechanism and administrative review of
                        recognized best practice. bidding documents for      bidders' protest are introduced, the procedures are in line with
                                                  goods, civil works and     the relevant EU requirements.
                        An autonomous             consultant services,
                        Procurement Supervision including specific           Standard documents of pre-qualification and bidding for goods,
                        Bureau has been           prohibitions against       civil works and consultant services are drafted and introduced
                        established               fraudulent and corrupt     according to the relevant EU requirements.
                                                  activities

                                                  Introduce an
                                                  administrative procedure
                                                  for debarring firms and




                                                            - 49 -

                                                    individuals who engage
                                                    in fraudulent and corrupt
                                                    activities related to
                                                    public procurement.

C.3.c: Objective : Development of performance-oriented budgets in line ministries


1. General Reforms         The Borrower, through                             PSAL 1, PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
Minister of Finance has its Cabinet of Ministers                             Since 2003 annual budget priority statements include an
agreed to organize a       has issued its first                              overall fiscal strategy and budget priorities. Guidelines have
discussion with Cabinet    annual budget priority                            also been issued for submission of new proposals to the budget.
of Ministers on detailed   statement, including:
PEM reform measures.       (a) an overall fiscal
                           strategy; (b) budget
                           priorities; and (c)
                           criteria for annual
                           budget priority setting
                           to be used starting with
                           the budget for the year
                           2003.

                           Cabinet of Ministers has
                           agreed to limit the
                           submission of new policy
                           initiatives to the budget
                           process. To support this
                           process policy planning
                           guidelines have been
                           developed for
                           policymaking, strategic
                           planning, and
                           submission of new
                           initiatives to the budget
                           process.

2. Public Expenditure                                                        PSAL 1, ­ fully met.
Reviews.                   The MoF has prepared a The Cabinet of Ministers PER carried out in Ministries of Justice and Agriculture.
Agreement on carrying      draft methodology of     has adopted an
out Public Expenditure Public Expenditure           expenditure review       PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
Reviews (PER) focusing Reviews to be                program and              Methodology of public expenditure review was prepared.
on assessing (i)           undertaken.              responsibilities have
allocations according to                            been assigned within     Planned PSAL 3 ­ partly met.
priorities; (ii) efficiency                         MoF, Chancellery and     Expenditure reviews are carried out together with elaboration
and (iii) effectiveness of                          the line ministries.     of strategic plans of ministries. No special review program is
expenditure in Justice                                                       necessary, because strategic planning methodology includes
and Agriculture                                     Public Expenditure       review of all budget programs of relevant ministries including
                                                    Reviews completed in     budget of subordinated institutions. Strategic planning process
                                                    those ministries as      is started in practically all ministries and full strategic plans
                                                    identified with the      will be completed for the budget process of 2007.
                                                    expenditure review
                                                    program.

                                                    The Cabinet of Ministers
                                                    has adopted an
                                                    expenditure review
                                                    program and
                                                    responsibilities have
                                                    been assigned within
                                                    MoF, Chancellery and



                                                              - 50 -

                                                    the line ministries.

3. Strategic planning     A Memorandum of           The Government issues PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
                          Understanding for the     the regulations for        Pilot in the Ministry of Agriculture has been successfully
                          implementation of the     Strategic Planning.        implemented. Methodology and guidelines for Strategic
                          pilot with respect to                                planning system approved by the Cabinet of Ministers on
                          strategic planning in the Pilot ministries prepared March 12, 2003.
                          Ministry of Agriculture strategic plans and
                          has been developed and annual performance            Planned PSAL 3 ­ partly met.
                          signed by the             programs, which are        Amendments to Cabinet regulations Nr. 111 are prepared and
                          Chancellery, MoF,         used as the basis of their are in the process of harmonization between ministries.
                          MoAg.                     budget request.            Amendments include definition of strategic plan and regulation
                                                                               in connection with budget process.
                          Draft Guidelines have     The Government             A full set of implementation for the strategic plans for all
                          been developed for        identifies a second group ministries is planned for 2007.
                          Strategic Planning and    of ministries to prepare
                          the Ministry of           strategic plans during
                          Agriculture has been      2002-2003.
                          selected to pilot these
                          guidelines.               Develop action plan for
                                                    strengthening evaluation
                                                    function of MoF and
                                                    pilot line ministries.

C.3.d: Objective: development of a medium-term budget

The Cabinet has agreed The 2002 Budget              Cabinet of Ministers       PSAL 1, PSAL 2, Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
to discuss (i) a draft    includes explanations of established a Fiscal        The Fiscal policy consultative board was established on
fiscal strategy statement forecasting assumptions Policy Consultative          January 8, 2002 by Cabinet of Ministers regulation No 8.
and (ii) medium-term      and fiscal risks and      Board to consider the      Cabinet of Ministers has issued the guidelines for preparing
macro/fiscal framework    provides financing        medium term fiscal plan medium term budget planning on April 5, 2001. Cabinet of
submitted by the          information together      (MTFP) of the MoF.         Ministers Instruction No8 (August 27, 2002) "Order of
Ministry of Finance.      with an analysis of the                              medium term budget planning". MoF every year prepares a
                          sources of financing.                                "Scenario for macroeconomic development and fiscal policy in
Fiscal framework is                                                            medium term".
based on aggregate        Cabinet of Ministers has
deficit target and        issued the methodology
constraints on financing  guidelines for medium
basic budget lifted.      term budget planning.

                          Cabinet of Ministers has
                          issued the Medium term
                          Fiscal Policy Statement.

The Cabinet of            Revised Cabinet                                      PSAL 1, PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
Ministers has decided     Regulation No. 160                                   In order to replace Cabinet regulation No.160 a new Cabinet
that the Cabinet          adopted by Cabinet of                                regulation No 111 on "Rules of Procedure of the Cabinet of
Regulation (#160) will    Ministers.                                           Ministers" was adopted on March 14, 2002. Regulation defines
be amended to respect                                                          the types and structure of policy documents submitted to
the following principles:                                                      Cabinet of Ministers. The structure prescribes results and
(i) all new policy                                                             measurable indicators for policy implementation and fiscal
proposals by line                                                              costs for a period of 3 years. Regulation defines the categories
ministries to Cabinet                                                          of draft normative acts, which have to be supplied with
must be accompanied                                                            annotation (if the normative act has financial impact).
by offsetting measures;                                                        Annotation is structured by Cabinet of Ministers instruction
and (ii) in order for the                                                      No.4 (September 18, 2001) on "Procedure for filling in
proposal to be submitted                                                       annotations of draft regulatory enactments". Part III of the
to Cabinet of Ministers,                                                       annotation defines framework for financial impact assessment
fiscal costs of these                                                          for the next 3 years. Training course for annotation system,



                                                              - 51 -

proposals and offsetting                                                     including financial impact assessment as well as a course on
measures must be                                                             performance indicators are provided by the School of Public
prepared by line                                                             Administration.
ministries for 3 years;
(iii) and reviewed by
MoF for technical
accuracy of costs.

C.3.e: Objective: Enhance Local Accountability


MoF has commenced        To allow for more         Prepare evaluation of the PSAL 1, PSAL 2, Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
work to develop          stability and             financial management      According to Law "On budget and finance management" and
improved financial       predictability in the     system and reports on     Law "On Local governments" (entered into force on May 24,
accounting and reporting equalization mechanism, the scope of the training 1994) local governments submit their financial reports to the
procedures for local     the MoF has reformed      system (number of staff State Treasury. The reports now provide how qualitative
governments.             the system of             trained per               budget-financed institutions govern the financial assets and
                         expenditure needs         municipality).            material resources that are in their use and assigned to them.
                         calculation.              Publish reports on local All reports are publicly available and are also published in the
                                                   government financial      State Treasury Internet home page.
                         Promote client surveys    sector.
                         and opinion polls and                               The procedure for preparing the reports is set in the Cabinet
                         other forms of                                      Regulation No. 999"On annual statements' preparation
                         community feedback as                               procedures for state and local governments' budget
                         input into budget and                               institutions" (adopted in 2004) and in the Cabinet Regulation
                         investment decisions.                               Nr. 425 "On local governments monthly reports on budget
                                                                             expenditure, finances, loans and guarantees" (adopted June 21,
                                                                             2005)

C.4: Objective: Improve targeting of Social assistance as a means of preventing negative consequences to households of poverty by
implementing a national social safety net providing income support to the lowest income households

Cabinet of Ministers     The Saeima has            Satisfactory              PSAL 1 ­ fully met.
has adopted concept      completed its first       implementation of the     On February 8, 2000 Cabinet of Ministers adopted the
paper with               reading of the new Law new social assistance        "Conceptual Issue of guaranteeing the Minimum Income Level
implementation plan, to On Social services and system, as measured for       to Low-income Residents". From July 2000 till December 2000
implement a national     Social Assistance,        example by the Saeima     the Government launched a pilot project with the
means-tested social      which provides for the adopting the Law on          co-participation of 20 local municipalities.
assistance benefit       nationwide                Social Services and
targeted at the very     implementation of         policy measures to:       PSAL 2, Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
poorest households.      national means tested                               On October 31, 2002, the "Law on Social services and Social
                         social assistance benefit (i) Improve the           assistance" was adopted by the Saeima, taking effect as from
Agreement has been       and improves the          targeting of the          January 1, 2003. The law defines that local government shall
reached that             organization and          neediest; and             define for their social assistance budget a means tested benefit
implementation begins    administration of the                               to ensure the guaranteed minimum income level. Only after
in some municipalities insocial assistance         (ii) Strengthening the    well-grounded demands for the guaranteed minimum income
2000 after Cabinet of    system.                   incentive and             benefit of the needy residents of the municipality has been
Ministers has adopted                              monitoring systems in     satisfied, the local government shall have the authority to pay
the concept.                                       place.                    other benefits.


                                                   An action plan for        The Cabinet of Ministers establishes each year in the draft

                                                   placing gatekeeping and   State Budget Law the guaranteed minimum income level and

                                                   referral decisions and    the size of the benefit. The Cabinet of Ministers has increased
                                                   financing responsibilitiesannually  the Guaranteed Minimum Income level (15 lats in

                                                   for social care and social2003, 18 lats in 2004, and 21 lats in 2005).

                                                   assistance with one level
                                                   of government has been    Since 2003, the Guaranteed Minimum Income level has been

                                                   prepared and has been     used by local governments for benefit payments.

                                                   adopted by Cabinet of



                                                             - 52 -

                                                     Ministers. Ministry of     To improve targeting, in 2003, the Cabinet of Ministers

                                                     Welfare prepares           adopted Regulations where the procedure of calculation,

                                                     analysis (based on the     granting and payment of the Guaranteed Minimum Income

                                                     results of the first six   benefit was defined.

                                                     months) of the
                                                     nationwide                 Handbook and methodology for clarifying the procedure of

                                                     implementation of          calculation, granting and payment of the GMI benefit has been

                                                     national means tested      published.

                                                     social assistance benefit

               D. RATIONALIZING THE INTERACTION BETWEEN THE PUBLIC AND THE PRIVATE SECTOR
D.1. Objective: Move most of the significant remaining commercial state firms to the private sector to promote open markets,
restructuring and industrial growth while fostering the development of stable governance structures and adhering to fundamental
principals for its regulatory interventions


Cabinet of Ministers       Subsidiary legislation, Establishment of the         PSAL 1, PSAL 2 ­ fully met
has submitted the Law needed for the Public          basic elements of          Inter-ministerial working group was formed to prepare action
On Public Services         Utilities Commission to   accounting regulation.     plan for the establishment of a regulatory agency.
Regulators to the          operate, has been
Saeima.                    approved by the Cabinet   (i) Timely adoption by     The Law on Public Services was approved by Parliament. The
                           of Ministers.             the Public Utilities       strategy for operation of the public utility commission was
The Cabinet of Ministers                             Commission of gas,         approved by the Cabinet of Ministers.
has adopted concepts for The Borrower, through electricity and
the market structure in    the Public Utilities      telecommunications         Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
electricity and            Commission Board, has tariffs according to           The Public Utilities Commission approved natural gas supply
telecommunications as a    adopted the Strategy of transparent, published       tariff calculation methodology on January 24, 2003. After the
basis for proceeding withthe   Public Utilities      methodologies              approval of the new natural gas tariff methodology and
privatization/divestiture  Commission ("Strategy                                separation of costs in March 2003, "Latvijas Gaze" submitted
in these sectors and for   and Basic Principles"), (ii) Adoption by the         a natural gas tariff proposal, which was approved by the
reaching agreement with    published it in the       Public Utilities           Commission on April 9, 2003.
existing investors in      official newspaper        Commission of rules
Lattelekom.                Latvijas Vestnesis and governing access to the       On January 29, 2003 the Commission's board approved

                           the website               transmission grid in       electricity supply tariff calculation methodology. The
Interministerial working   www.sprk.gov.lv           electricity and            realignment of the electricity tariff system was completed with
group is developing an                               bottleneck network         the approval of new electricity tariffs for state "Latvenergo" on
action plan for            Inter-ministerial working facilities in              October 15, 2003. The approved tariffs took effect on January
strengthening the          group has elaborated and telecommunications.         1, 2004.
regulatory framework       implemented a technical
and capacity in each       assistance plan to        The above-mentioned        Telecommunications service tariff calculation methodology was
sub-sector (energy,        enhance regulatory        tariffs and rules need to  approved in July 26, 2002. By October 2004 the Commission
telecom, post and          capacity.                 strike a proper balance    approved the regulatory parameters of "Lattelekom".
railway services) and for                            between promoting
establishing, staffing and Agreement   has been      competition and ensuringThe     Commission has undertaken evaluation of its staff and is
organizing the Public      reached on a proposal forthe financial viability in  implementing a training program according to Commission's
Services Regulatory        the structure,            the operation of           annual budget.
Council in accordance      organization, and         bottleneck facilities; and,
with agreed sectoral       operational arrangement in the case of electricity,
policies and sectoral and  for a unified regulatory  facilitate trade between
multi-sectoral laws (e.g.  agency.                   the three Baltic
on Public Services                                   countries."
Regulators and on          The full five people
telecommunication          Commission Board was
submitted to the Saeima    appointed in time to start
and existing law on        its operations on October
energy as amended if       1, 2001 and an efficient
necessary). The action     management structure
plan includes the transferand   incentives have been
of the statutory           prepared for              The Commission has



                                                               - 53 -

responsibilities of the  implementation.           undertaken a review of
Telecommunications                                 the skill mix of its staff,
Tariff Council, the      The Commission has        identified priorities for
current regulatory       reviewed and revised, as new staffing and
functions of the Ministryneeded, the -budget for developed a
of Transport and the     the first year of         comprehensive training
energy regulation board, operation.                program.
as well as the regulators
of postal and railway    The Public Utilities
services to the Public   Commission has
Services Regulatory      published its first
Council in a manner and  Annual Report
on a timetable which
ensures the most
effective build up of
regulatory capacity.

Ministry of Economy
(cosigned by Ministry of
Transport) has issued a
decree establishing an
inter-ministerial
working group to
prepare an action plan
for the establishment of
the multi-sectoral
regulatory agency and
for strengthening the
regulatory regime in
each sub-sector;
electricity, gas,
telecommunication,
post and railway
services.

Cabinet of Ministers     The Borrower has in theSatisfactory                  PSAL 1, PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
has decided to use       case of the privatization implementation and         State owned stocks of the joint stock company "Latvijas
reputed international    of LASCO, made a          completion of the          ku·niec·ba" (LASCO) were sold:
`investment              public offering of 32     remaining privatization    1) 32% in public auction for privatization vouchers;
banks/advisors' for      percent of the shares foragenda, as measured by      2) 51% In Riga Stock Exchange auction;
divestiture of           privatization vouchers    the preparing and          3) 10% transferred to the State special pension fund;
Government ownership and sold 51 percent of        offering for sale of       4) 7% to company's personnel.
Lattelekom, Latvenergo,the shares to strategic     Ventspils Nafta (VN)       Privatization of the stock company "Latvijas g·ze" was
Ventspils Nafta,         and financial investors and, as soon as              completed in October 2003:
Latvijas Gaze and        for cash through the      litigation is over, the    1) Remaining (3%) stocks was sold to natural persons in
Latvian Shipping if      Riga Stock Exchange at government's shares in        public offering;
necessary and as agreed a price approved by the Lattelekom.                   2) Investors fulfilled commitments taken in process of
with the World Bank.     Board of the Latvian                                 privatization.
                         Privatization Agency.     For each of VN and
Ministry of Economy      The balance of the        Lattelekom, the            Planned PSAL 3 ­ partly met.
has provided the World shares will go to           government will use an     The legal procedure for "Lattelekom" between the State and

Bank with a plan for     employees and the State international                the investor was completed in March of 2004. On July 26,

when and for what        Pension Fund by           investment bank, hired     2005 Cabinet of Ministers organized the working group for the

purpose to use           December 31, 2002.        though international       evaluation of the possibility to sale state owned Lattelekom

international                                      competitive tender, and    shares. Simultaneously conditions for the eventual selling of

`investment              The Borrower has          will offer for sale its    the remaining (51%) state owned stocks is being prepared.

banks/advisors' and      submitted the first       shares in an open,           2001, through tender, a consulting consortium was
how these will be        regular report and        competitive manner and In  nominated as the consultant for selling remaining 38 percent



                                                             - 54 -

procured.                evaluation by the          at a fair price to the          owned stocks of stock company ,,Venstpils Nafta".
                         international              government, the process state
                                                                              Considering essential changes in actual situation during the 4
Cabinet of Ministers     investment bank for        to be attested to as fair,year time period according to bilateral agreement the contract
has decided to ensure    Ventspils Nafta to the     open and competitive by   with finance consultant was broken. At the moment the
that the Latvian         Bank for review.           the investment bank.      eventual selling conditions of remaining state owned stocks are
Privatization Agency                                                          in process of preparation. On June 28, 2005 Cabinet of
will use best                                                                 Ministers passed a resolution to organize the sale of the
commercial practice as                                                        remaining state owned shares of "Ventspils Nafta". Quite
agreed with the World                                                         possible that the tender will be announced soon.
Bank (1) to procure
international                                                                 State stock company "Latvenergo" according to the Energy Law
`investment                                                                   amended by Saeima will not be privatized and will remain a
banks/advisors' if                                                            state property.
necessary and as agreed
with the Bank and (2) to
privatize/divest its
interest in the five
enterprises.

Cabinet of Ministers
has approved funding
for international
`investment
banks/advisors' up to an
amount of LVL 3
million for LPA in the
expenditure plan of the
Privatization Fund.

D.2: Energy Sector: Regulation and Privatization


Cabinet of Ministers     Cabinet of Ministers has Energy Sector. In the       PSAL 1 ­ fully met.
has approved and         decreased the criteria for electricity sector:       Latvenergo has established subsidiaries for Hydro, combined
announced with respect   Qualified Customers                                  heat and Power plants. Daugava Hydro Plant established on
to Latvenergo to         from 100 GWh to 40         (i) Reduction of the      December 2, 2001
establish the Daugava    GWh.                       annual electricity
Hydro Plants, Riga                                  consumption threshold            2 ­ fully met.
Combined Heat and        The Cabinet of             for Qualified CustomersPSAL
                                                                              Cabinet of Ministers approved the Regulation "On the Volume
Power Plants,            Ministers has approved     to 20 GWh;                of the Consumption of Electricity to Acquire the Status of
transmission and (one    a detailed restructuring                             eligible customer of Electricity in year 2004" at the 40 GWh of
or more) distribution    program for Latvenergo     (ii)The Transmission      annual electricity consumption from January 1, 2004.
units as subsidiaries. Inwhich meets the EU         System Operator is
addition, the            Directive 96/92/EC         licensed and operates as  "Energy Law", Grid Code and secondary legislation allow for
Government will divest   concerning common          a fully independent       the eligible customers to choose the supplier. There are also no
49% of its ownership in  rules for the internal     entity with an            legislative and institutional obstacles for third party traders or

the Riga Combined        market in electricity.     independent Board of      suppliers from other countries to enter in the electricity market

Heat and Plants and                                 Directors.;               of Latvia.

privatize non-core       The Ministry of                                      Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
business activities.     Economy has prepared       (iii) The Government      In order to implement provisions of the new Electricity

                         a market model which       has adopted electricity Directive ("Directive 2003/54/EC of the European Parliament

                         meets EU Directives on     market model and has and of the Council of 26 June 2003 concerning common rules

                         market liberalization,     revised Energy            for the internal market in electricity and repealing Directive

                         for consideration by the   legislation that will     96/92/EC"), Ministry of Economy has elaborated and the

                         Government.                meet EU Directives for Cabinet of Ministers adopted "The Basic Terms for
                                                    electricity market        Establishing Preconditions for Electricity Market in Latvia"on

                         The Borrower has           liberalization.           July 20, 2004. Saeima adopted the new "Electricity Market

                         established the                                      Law" on May 3, 2005.
                                                    The Transmission



                                                              - 55 -

                        Transmission System                                 The Transmission System Operator publishes the Balancing
                        Operator as a separate   System Operator will       Report every year according requirements of the Energy Law.
                        legal entity with its ownpublish balancing

                        management, staff and                               Transmission System Operator (TSO) was established as a
                        separate accounts.                                  sister company of joint stock company Latvenergo and is
                                                                            completely independent, transparent and ensures equal
                        The Ministry of                                     treatment to all market participants.
                        Economy has prepared                                Separate tariffs are approved for generation, transmission,
                        and submitted an                                    distribution and sales to captive users on the basis of separated
                        amendment to the                                    accounts for each activity.
                        Energy Law to replace
                        the current double-tariff
                        scheme for CHP plants,
                        wind and small hydros.
                        The amendments have
                        been approved by the
                        Parliament. The
                        Transmission System
                        Operator has published
                        power system
                        information outlined in
                        Chapter 3 of the Grid
                        Code.

                        The Cabinet of           Adjust the accounts of     PSAL 2, Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
                        Ministers has approved vertically integrated        The amendments to the "Energy Law", introducing legal
                        a concept with a time    company Latvijas Gaze preconditions for the third party access and establishment of
                        bound action plan of     in order to provide for    eligible customers according to the acquis are completed and
                        gas market               higher degree of           were adopted by Saeima on May 26, 2005. With adoption of
                        liberalization in line   transparency through       these amendments full alignment with the acquis has been
                        with EU Gas Directive    separation of accounting ensured, including new Directive 2003/55/EC of the European
                        98/30, dealing, in       systems for storage,       Parliament and of the Council of June 26, 2003 concerning
                        particular, with third   transmission,              common rules for the internal market in natural gas repealing
                        party access, and        distribution, and sales of Directive 98/30/EC.
                        elaborating on gas       natural gas, as well as    On January 24, 2003 the Public Utilities Commission
                        pricing methodologies    separate non-core          established methodology for separate tariff calculation for each
                        that deal with           activities of Latvijas     sector of natural gas: storage, transmission, distribution and
                        separation of storage,   Gaze company.              sale.
                        transmission,
                        distribution and sales   Establish third party      Separate tariffs are approved for transmission, storage,

                        costs and tariffs.       access to transmission     distribution and sales on the basis of separated accounts for
                                                 and distribution           each activity.
                                                 networks.

D.3: Telecommunications Sector: Regulation and Privatization

Cabinet of Ministers    Liberalization of        Complete tariff            PSAL 1, PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
has submitted           infrastructure and       re-balancing.              The Law of Telecommunications was approved on November
Telecommunications      establishment of                                    1, 2001. The Public Utilities Regulation Commission was
law to Saeima after     competition rules that   Establishment of           established to perform the regulatory functions in a number of
amendments to the       are transparent and      methodology for            sectors, including telecommunications (it has been operating
current draft to requirenon-discriminatory.      estimating costs that      since October 2001). The supporting legislation is also in
an independent                                   approximates the best      place.
regulator to be         Establishment and        practice methods that are
established by 2001 the publication of proceduresused in OECD countries. Planned PSAL 3 ­ partly met.
latest, and to allow thefor deciding what                                   The regulatory parameters approved for "Lattelekom" in
telecommunications      services to regulate                                October 2004 envisage the reduction of the basket of all tariffs
regulator to be part of                          Definition of universal    by 7.5 percent, prohibiting increase of subscription fee.
the Public Services     Medium-term regulatory service and the              However the tariff re-balancing is not yet completed.



                                                           - 56 -

Regulatory Council        agenda in the              establishment of a
starting 2001.            telecommunications         competitively neutral   Telecommunications service cost calculation and allocation
                          sector defined and work mechanism to support       methodology was approved on January 29, 2003.
The Cabinet of Ministers in  the following areas     universal service goals.
has provided LPA with a   will have commenced:                               On December 1, 2004 the Commission approved the
mandate to negotiate      (a) generating a           Establishment of rules  Regulations on the universal service in the electronic
exclusivity agreement     reasonable, realistic      for allocating the      communications sector, which replaced the previous
and related issues with   approach to price          spectrum.               regulations of similar content from 2002. For each year starting
private investors in      regulation, including the                          from 2003 the Commission has appointed "Lattelekom" as the
Lattelekom based on the   identification of cost,                            provider of universal service.
concept for a competitive technical  and other data,
market structure adopted  which the regulated                                The rights to establish rules for allocating the spectrum are
(see also D.1.).          entities will be                                   granted to the Commission starting from June 8, 2005.
                          compelled to furnish,
                          determination of the cost                          Electronic Communications Law has been in force since
                          of capital, depreciation,                          December 1, 2004. It sets principles of the market analysis, as
                          and other needed                                   well as establishes the methodology for estimating costs
                          elements of regulatory                             defines universal service and determines rules of allocating the
                          accounts; (b)                                      spectrum.
                          establishment of an
                          interconnection
                          framework defining the
                          terms and conditions of
                          access to bottleneck
                          telecommunications
                          facilities; (c)
                          classification of services;
                          and (e) development of a
                          numbering plan.

                          Legislation approved
                          defining: (i) the list of
                          telecommunications
                          services to be regulated
                          by the Regulatory
                          Commission; (ii) a clear
                          demarcation of
                          responsibilities between
                          the MoT and the
                          Regulatory Commission
                          on issues related to
                          telecommunications
                          policy; and (iii) the rules
                          for licensing.

D.4: Objective: Achievement of a uniform approach to supervision of finance and capital markets and strengthening of financial
supervision system with particular emphasis on non-bank financial institutions.


Cabinet of Ministers      Formal establishment of Program in place for       PSAL 1 ­ fully met.
has submitted the Law the FCMC by July 1,            strengthening           The Law on the Financial and Capital Market Commission was
on Unified Financial      2001. Appointment of       supervision, especially adopted on 1 June 2000 and became effective on July 1, 2001.
Supervision Agency to     the Council of the         for the NBFI's.
Saeima                    FCMC. Organizational                               PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
                          form for the FCMC                                  Organizational structure of the FCMC is set along functional
Work has been initiated   established along          The establishment of a  lines. Procedures for operational activities are established.
that is to result in an   functional lines. Draft    Consultative Council.   Quality management certificate ISO 9001:2000 was granted on
action plan (i) for       budget in place for the                            May 7, 2003. Unified supervisory authority commenced its
strengthening             FCMC.                      Establishment of a      activities on July 1, 2001. Public Relations Division was
supervision of financial                             Memorandum of           established on July 1, 2001.



                                                              - 57 -

institutions like the       Agreement on a training Understanding between
pension funds,              program with the          the FCMC on the one      Annual budget is agreed with the Consultative Council and
investment companies        Swedish FSA, to be        hand and the BOL and     approved by the Board of the FCMC.
and the securities          established by June 30    (MoF) on the other.
market; (ii) for the        by 1) Letter from FCMC                             Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
structure, organization,    to Swedish FSA and 2)                              Although the condition is fully met, the Memorandum of
and operational             joint letter from FCMC                             Understanding between the FCMC and the MoF was not
arrangement for a           & Swedish FSA to SIDA                              signed because the Law on the Financial and Capital Market
unified regulatory          for a two phase program                            Commission defines terms of exchange of information between
agency; and (iii) that set  1) matching of people an                           the Commission and MoF (therefore, the MoU is not required).
out the change              needs identification
management program          during summer 2001 and
covering the                2) follow-up with                                  Consultative Council was established on 1 July 2001.
arrangements of             specific training in areas
transition from the         identified during
current regulatory          2001-2003
structure to the new
unified regulatory          WB assisted training
agency, including           program for corporate
development of              governance for insurance
communication strategy.     industry, insider register
                            and internet trading of
                            securities concluded by
                            June 30, 2001.
D.5: Objective: Strengthen legal and regulatory process, to ensure more efficient regulation and reduce the costs to the public
sector created by abuse of regulatory power.

MoJ has completed a         The Borrower, through All line ministries          PSAL 1 ­ fully met.
draft manual for            its Cabinet of Ministers, implement adequate       Manual for drafting laws and regulations based on good
drafting laws and           has approved              regulatory impact        legislative technique was prepared by the MoJ and published
regulations based on        methodology for legal     assessment procedures. by State Chancellery in 2002. MoJ established the Department
good legislative            and regulatory impact                              for Methodology and Systematization of Normative Acts which
techniques.                 analysis.                 A computerized database reviews all normative acts submitted to the Cabinet of
                                                      containing all normative Ministers.
The Ministry of Justice MoJ trains staff of other     acts, with appropriate
has created a special unit agencies in the            indexing, is produced.   PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
to implement a unified      application of the                                 Unified system for drafting and approximating legal acts is
system for drafting laws drafting manual.                                      approved by the Cabinet of Ministers regulation No111.
and regulations, with the                                                      Training course on regulatory impact analysis is provided. MoJ
capacity to train officials MoJ evaluates draft laws                           gives an opinion to all draft normative acts.
in other ministries in      and regulations based on
drafting techniques.        its standards described                            Definition and hierarchy of normative acts are included in
                            in its drafting manual.                            Administrative Procedure Law. A manual on drafting of
MoJ has created a                                                              normative acts has been published in 2002. It was elaborated
comprehensive definitionGovernment staff is                                    by a group of authors including representatives from the MoJ.
of "normative acts" and trained in legal and
ensures that all draft      regulatory impact                                  Impact assessment procedures are defined in the centralized
normative acts are          assessment.                                        way in regulation of Cabinet of Ministers Nr 111. Impact
submitted to it prior to                                                       assessment methodology is included in Policy planning
adoption.                                                                      guidelines (Cabinet of Ministers October 9, 2001), Manual on
                                                                               impact assessment methodology is published by State
The Ministry of Finance                                                        Chancellery in 2005. System of impact assessment of draft
has prepared a draft                                                           legislation is included in Annotation system of draft legislation.
manual for assessing the
budgetary consequences
of draft laws and                                                              Training for civil servants on annotation system and instruction
regulations.                                                                   of annotation are carried out in the School of PA.

The School of Public                                                           The Law on Administrative Procedure sets as a compulsory




                                                               - 58 -

Administration has                                                              condition for state institutions to follow the administrative
developed a training                                                            practices (including the technique for elaboration of normative
program in impact                                                               acts). The Regulations (on elaboration of inner normative acts)
analysis.                                                                       of the Cabinet of Ministers No.567 of June 29, 2004 sets a
                                                                                compulsory condition to observe legal practice in elaboration of
                                                                                inner regulations of state institutions.

                                                                                MoJ has established the Department for Methodology and
                                                                                Systematization of Normative Acts. The department provides
                                                                                occasional seminars for other ministries on subjects related to
                                                                                its activities.

                                                                                Planned PSAL 3 ­ fully met.
                                                                                The Department for Budget and Planning of the MoJ performs
                                                                                impacts assessment for draft laws and regulations.

                                                                                The State Administration School delivers a training course on
                                                                                impact analysis of normative acts and preparation of
                                                                                annotations for draft normative acts (which include statement
                                                                                on impact analysis).

                                                                                Two computerized databases containing all normative acts are
                                                                                available. One (NAIS) is private and used by all state
                                                                                institutions and second (www.likumi.lv) is run by the
                                                                                newspaper "Latvijas Vestnesis" and is accessible by public
                                                                                free of charge.
Secretariat of MoPSR      MoF and Secretariat of     Secretariat of MoPSR       PSAL 1, PSAL 2, Planned PSAL 3 ­ partly met.
has drafted and Cabinet MoPSR draft new              designs the structure and Implementation of the Administrative Procedure Law (in force
has adopted instructionsprocedures     for the       evaluation criteria of the since January 1, 2003) ensures a clear procedure for inspection
(including internal       collection of fines        annual reporting           procedures and appeals, including decisions of inspectorates,
regulations and           eliminating payment        requirements for           special Administrative courts.
guidelines for            through personal contact, inspectorates and
inspections) for          and requiring fine         discusses these with       Regulation of the Cabinet No. 948 of November 30, 2004
inspections, which        payment only through       inspectorates.             prescribes the task for all line ministries to make a revision of
include: (i) rules for    bank transfer.                                        sectoral normative acts to reduce the amount of information
ensuring transparency                                Performance measures       asked for execution of public services of public bodies.
of inspection             New rules and              and reporting
procedures; (ii) rules    procedures in conformity requirements are             Special Council for inspectorates is not regarded feasible,
for documenting           with inspection            implemented in all         functions of coordination in Public administration are given to
violations; (iii)         guidelines are             inspectorates.             Public Administration reform council.
separation of             implemented in the all

inspections from          inspectorates by           Experience with            PSAL 2 ­ partly met.

collection of fines; (iii)September 2000.            implementation of new      Fines are collected through bank transfer.

appeal procedures; and                               rules and procedures in The School of Public Administration trains inspection

(iv) arrangements for     The School of Public       all inspecting agencies, personnel in (i) the application of new rules and procedures;

ensuring feedback from    Administration trains      is reviewed.               (ii) effective treatment of clients; (iii) conflict resolution; and

inspected bodies.         inspection personnel in                               (iv) performance management.
                          (i) the application of newFeedback from inspected

A horizontal              rules and procedures; (ii) bodies is used in the      Planned PSAL 3 ­ partly met

coordination council for  effective treatment of     performance evaluations Reporting requirements, performance measures are common

inspectorates with        clients; (iii) conflict    of inspectors and          for all public administration institutions and defined by Public

rotating presidency has   resolution; and (iv)       inspectorates.             administration structure Law and correlated Government's

been set up to steer the  performance                                           regulations. No special exception for inspectorates will be

implementation the        management.                Satisfactory action on     produced.

reform of inspections.                               reported cases of
                                                     corruption in inspections Performance measures and reporting requirements are

Workshop on inspections                              is taken.                  implemented in all inspectorates in the similar way as in other

reform has been                                                                 public administration institutions.

conducted.                                           Performance measures




                                                              - 59 -

                                                    are defined for 50% of Annual reports are prepared in accordance with Cabinet of

Two inspectorates have                              the inspectorates.     Ministers regulation on Annual reports of Public

been selected to pilot                                                     administration institutions. Performance measures are defined

new inspections                                     Adjusted reporting     in budgetary process in accordance with regulation of Cabinet

guidelines.                                         requirements are       of Ministers on Annual Performance indicators.
                                                    implemented in 50% of

A training program for                              the inspectorates.     Evaluation of public administration performance is planned in

inspectorates has been                                                     2006, in the framework of ex-post evaluation of Public

prepared, which focuses                             Annual reports of      administration reform program 2001-2006.

on: (i) application of new                          inspectorates for 2002

rules and procedures; (ii)                          take into account new

effective treatment of                              requirements for

clients; (iii) conflict                             structure of annual

resolution; and (iv)                                reports.

performance
measurement.

Workshop on regulatory Reports are published        Time for processing    PSAL 1, PSAL 2 ­ fully met.
reform has been           summarizing feedback      permits is reduced.    The activities of PSAL 1, II have significantly reduced
conducted.                from real estate                                 regulatory coordination in the area of construction.
                          developers, architects    Feedback from regulated
LDA has developed         and building contractors bodies is used in       Planned PSAL 3 ­ partly met.
recommendations on        on: (i) efficiency of     evaluating performance Ministry of Economy is continuing work on simplification the
management, use and       permit process; (ii)      of regulators and      administrative process in construction.
design of transparent     prevalence of corruption; organizations.
regulations, appeals,     (iii) understanding of
public participation,     their rights and          Consultative
regulatory control over   responsibilities.         mechanisms are used in
natural monopolies,                                 other areas where
infrastructure finance,   Municipal Board           permits are required.
and policy on historic    disseminates information
structures and districts. on new regulations and
                          procedural practices




                                                              - 60 -

  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

  Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal       Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                              Estimate         Estimate          Appraisal
                       Component                            US$ million       US$ million
  PSAL 1                                                        40.41             40.41                 100
  PSAL 2                                                        20.21               0.00                  0
  PSAL 3                                                         0.00               0.00                  0

  Total Baseline Cost                                           60.62             40.41
                          Total Project Costs                   60.62             40.41
                    Total Financing Required                    60.62             40.41




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                          Percentage of Appraisal
     Component                Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
                          Bank      Govt.       CoF.      Bank        Govt.      CoF.      Bank   Govt.   CoF.
PSAL 1                    40.41                           40.41                            100.0
PSAL 2                    20.21                           0.00                              0.0
PSAL 3                    0.00                            0.00                              0.0

  Note: The Government decided not to use the PSAL 2 proceeds and not to go ahead with the PSAL 3
  operation




                                                  - 61 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 62 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                    Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)            Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                           Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              October 2000            15     Team Leader (1), public                  S               S
                                             administration specialists (3),
                                             public expenditure management
                                             specialists (2), social protection
                                             specialists (2), privatization and
                                             regulation specialists (5),
                                             macroeconomist (1), TA
                                             coordinator (1).


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              January 2001              7    Team Leader (1), social                  S               S
                                             protection specialist (1),
                                             privatization/regulation
                                             specialist (1),
                                             macroeconomist (1), public
                                             sector specialists (2);
                                             consultant (1).


 Supervision
              April 2001               11    Team Leader (1),                         S               S
                                             privatization/regulation
                                             specialists (2), public sector
                                             specialists (3),
                                             macroeconomist (1), social
                                             protection specialist (2),
                                             consultants (3).
              February 2002             6    Team leader (1),                         S               S
                                             privatization/regulation specialist
                                             (1), public sector specialists (2),
                                             macroeconomist (1); social
                                             protection specialist (1).

 ICR
              June 2005                 2     Team leader (1), economist              S               S
                                              (1)




                                              - 63 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           89.09                         355.1
  Appraisal/Negotiation                36.26                         104.4
  Supervision                          60.77                           91.2
  ICR                                   3.87                           25.4
  Total                              189.99                          576.1




                                            - 64 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 65 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 66 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


World Bank. 1998. "Country Assistance Strategy" April 1998

World Bank. 1999. "Quality Assurance Group, Quality Enhancement Review: Latvia SALII" November
1999.

World Bank. 2000. "President's Report on a Proposed Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan" Report
No. P- 7352 LV. February 2000

World Bank. 2001. "Implementation Completion Report" Report No. 22457. June 2001

World Bank. 2002. "President's Report on a Second Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan" Report
No. P- 7556 LV. August 2002

World Bank. 2002. "Country Assistance Strategy" Report No. 23610 LV. April 2002

Supervision Reports, October 2000, April 2001, and February 2002.

Memoranda to files and other PSAL correspondences during 1998-2005.




                                                - 67 -

- 68 -

