Report No. PID10044
Project Name                     Latvia-Programmatic Structural Adjustment (@)
Loan II (PSAL II)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Public Sector Management/Privatization
Project ID                       LVPA69890
Borrower                         Republic of Latvia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
1 Smislu, LV 1919 Riga
Tel:    371-7095680
Fax:    371-7095693
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           June 12, 2001
Date Initial PID Prepared        February 12, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         March 26, 2001
Projected Board Date             November 30, 2001
1.      Country and Sector Background.   Latvia's transition to a market economy
is almost complete. Price liberalization took place at the outset of
transition in 1992 and privatization of small and medium term enterprises,
although started only in 1994, was basically completed by mid 1998. Latvia
now faces the difficult last stages of transition where the Government's own
efficiency and effectiveness have become the main impediment to completing
the path to a market economy and sustained economic growth. The former is
best evidenced by the difficulties of privatizing the remaining (five) large
enterprises and the latter by the system of public administration that exists
in Latvia, which created conditions for corruption to flourish and by a
government that allowed the creation en mass of quasi-autonomous agencies
with inadequate provisions for assuring accountability and transparency with
respect to resources used and services provided
2.      The government has requested the second PSAL under the programmatic
Structural Adjustment program of which the first PSAL and its three-year
program were approved by the Bank's board on March 16, 2000. The program
focuses mainly on step by step institution building that will improve the
credibility, efficiency and effectiveness of the public sector to improve
service delivery, support the return to robust private sector led growth,
make the economy less vulnerable to external shocks and prepare for EU
accession. Improving public sector management and reducing corruption are
critical requirements for EU accession.
3.      The Country's Adjustment Program builds on the macroeconomic and
structural reforms made till this date. The ultimate objective of Latvia's
reform program (and of the proposed PSAL II that will support it) is to
continue to support the reforms that have been put in place till today. These
modernization of Latvia's Governance structures are to put the economy back
on a path of rapid and sustainable growth while maintaining a sustainable
external position, as to improve the well being of all its citizens.
Reaching that path requires (i) returning to the conservative fiscal stance
of before the Russian crisis and (ii) improving the functioning of the public



sector through a comprehensive reform package that enhances its efficiency
and effectiveness. This reform package focuses on (i) returning to a
macroeconomic framework conducive to growth, (ii) strengthening the
credibility of public sector institutions, (iii) increasing the capacity of
the state to efficiently manage its human and financial resources, and (iv)
rationalizing the boundary and interrelationships between the public and
private sector.
4.      The challenge facing the Government for the immediate future is to
continue the reform effort initiated. The reform effort will need to focus
on state institutions such as to come to an accountable and transparent state
that has the capacity to govern efficiently and effectively. This will
facilitate EU accession. The Russian crisis brought back more forcefully
into focus the inherent problems in Latvia's public expenditure management
system as well as the need to finalize the privatization process and in
parallel to define the role of the state as a regulator of productive assets
instead of as an owner. Given that the program is now in its second year the
reform program supported by PSAL II will gradually shift its support from
initiating reforms to implementing the new laws and regulations as well as
evaluating the impact of the initial reforms and as necessary redirect the
ongoing effort.
5.      The proposed Second Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan operation
would support the government in four overlapping areas:
Returning to a macroeconomic framework conducive to robust growth.
6.      The main policy component under this heading focuses on Ensuring
financial sustainability of the pension system. As such this component will
support the need to take two key actions. First, there is a direct need to
come to an agreement to overturn some of the recent measures that have been
taken in the second half of 1998 by the previous Government under pressure
from parliament, which severely impacted the financial sustainability of the
system. Second, the program will support the Government in its efforts to
implement the second tier pension law, which was prepared with support of the
Bank under PSAL I.
Strengthening the Credibility of the Public Sector
7.      The PSAL will continue to support the Government's efforts to further
reduce the risks and opportunities for corruption in Government and the
Judiciary by supporting the challenging and politically difficult task of
implementing the country's corruption prevention program. PSAL II will
continue to focus on the implementation of the program outlined in the PSAL I
board documentation. Key issues are: (i) The development of effective
mechanisms to monitor and report the public on changes in corruption as a
means to increase further public awareness; (ii) The development of
procedures to review regulations and public organizations with regard to
vulnerability to corruption as well as undertake these reviews, (iii) The
development and strengthening of the procedures available to identify
conflict of interest cases and continue to facilitate its implementation
through assisting the development of training materials in this area; (iv)
Transparency of the judiciary. The latter will require among others to
redraft the criminal procedure code to allow for streamlined procedures and
eliminate all ex parte contact between judges and litigants unless properly
recorded
8.      The program will continue to support the strengthening of transparency
and accountability of ministries and subordinated and supervised bodies
through advice with respect to rationalizing the functions, expenditures and
policies of government ministries. This process is currently being under
taken by the bureau of administrative reform in Latvia with support of the
- 2 -



World Bank and is an important first step toward streamlining the Government.
The PSAL program will continue to work with the government to implement the
outcomes of such a fundamental review of ministries and will help with the
identification of organizational structures that provide the proper
incentives for the execution of ministerial functions. In addition, the
program will help develop further the legal capacity for resolution of
administrative disputes and help improve the oversight of public sector
performance by civil society.
Strengthening the Public Sector Institutional Capacity.
9.      Under this component the World Bank will continue to work with the
Government of Latvia on improving the incentives for recruitment and
retention of high quality staff and with the rationalization of its public
expenditure management system. As integral part of the Government's reform
strategy the PSAL program will support the introduction of a unified and
transparent structure of pay and incentives that will reward skills
appropriately and enable people to be recruited and retained in public
service. It also supports the Governments initiatives to strengthen the
policy coordination and strategic planning at the heart of Government and
supports the need to strengthen public expenditure management to eliminate
the budget deficit, reduce the size of the public sector and increase public
investment.
Rationalizing the interactions between the public and private sector.
10.     The methods used to hire reputed international investment
banks/advisors in the privatization process have significantly improved with
support of PSAL II and are now in line with best practice. It is now
important to continue the process swiftly and to come to an equally
transparent process through which the companies will be offered for sale. It
is important to continue to support the privatization process under PSAL II.
PSAL II will continue to support a capacity building program, which was under
PSAL I focussed on the sector regulatory agencies. However, since the Saeima
adopted in the fall the Law on Public Service Regulators, drafted with
assistance of PSAL I, the support will focus on the on a seamless
incorporation into the Public Utilities Board, and strengthening the board
itself. The challenge will be in recruiting and building skills in economic,
financial and legal areas and in particular to recruit officials to head the
agencies with the necessary skills to lead them during their formative
period. Adequate financial resources will be needed for staff training, and
implementing modern information systems.
11.     Latvia has decided to establish a consolidated supervisory agency for
all financial supervision by merging the existing supervisory entities. The
law establishing this new agency, supported by PSAL I, has been adopted by
Saeima. The PSAL II will therefore support Latvia with establishing this
agency while at the same time strengthening the capacity for supervision,
particularly of non-bank financial institutions, which represent the weak
link in the current set-up for financial regulation, and supervision.
12.     Latvia's business regulatory system contains many of the formal
mechanisms that are essential for building an effective and transparent
regulatory environment. The PSAL II program will continue to support the
strengthening of the regulatory system. Measures to be taken during the
other years of the PSAL program focus on training staff in the use of the
manual for drafting laws and regulations as well as in legal and regulatory
impact assessment. In the area of inspections the other years of the PSAL aim
at implementing the new inspections standards developed with support of PSAL
I, in the remaining inspectorates as well as the development and
implementation of performance measures and reporting requirements in all
-3 -



inspectorates. To further enhance the regulatory coordination in the are of
construction, the PSAL will support measures that encourage a participatory
approach to streamline the permit process.
13.     Objective. The main objective of the Loan would be to help the economy
to return to sustained and rapid growth and improved welfare of its citizens
through reforms that enhance government efficiency and effectiveness.
Governance and institutional reform is the backbone of the reform program
supported by the Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan. The reforms build
for a large part on work started under the first PSAL. The loan would assist
the Government in establishing more efficient institutional arrangements for
making strategic policy decision and in establishing accountability for their
implementation.
14.     Financing and Implementation.   The Proposed loan of US$40 million is
the second of a series of up to three Programmatic Structural Adjustment
Loans (PSAL) to support Latvia's reform program. It is envisaged that over
the three-year period of Latvia's reform program, there could be up to three
single or two tranche PSALs to support its implementation amounting to an
overall resource envelope of approximately US$100 million. The PSAL II is in
the process of design and discussions with the Government. At present a loan
of about $40 million is envisaged. The loan would be made at the standard
World Bank rate over a period of 15 years, including four or five years
grace. The loan would be made to the Republic of Latvia, represented by the
Ministry of Finance, as the Borrower. The loan would be released in one
tranche following board approval.
15.     Following the identification mission of the PSAL, a counterpart team
had been formed, which is chaired/coordinated by the Ministry for Special
Assignments for co-operation with international agencies, and includes
representatives from various Ministries. This team has been active in the
dialogue with the Bank and is expected to continue to help in the
implementation of agreed policy measures to be supported by the PSAL.
16.     Poverty Category. The proposed PSAL will have an important effect on
poverty, since it will support growth objectives in a stable environment as
well as measures to improve service delivery, including social assistance, of
government and to reform the pension system. By contributing to low levels
of inflation the PSAL program will prevent further erosion in the real living
standards of the poor. The objectives of improving public administration and
management of resources will make possible improvements in the cost
effectiveness of those Government social programs that are especially
important for the poor.
17.     Environmental Aspects.   The loan would have no direct impact on the
environment (in line with the World Bank operational directive 4.01) and has
been placed in category C that does not require an environmental assessment.
18.     Benefits and Risks.   Benefits.  The actions under the PSAL will aid
fiscal adjustment and will ensure the sustainability of the reform process by
strengthening the institutional infrastructure needed to improve the public
sector's capacity to carry out its role effectively and efficiently. At the
same time the PSAL's actions will also encourage private sector development
by finalizing the privatization process and defining a clear and transparent
regulatory framework. By reducing the public sector corruption and
streamlining business regulation which are essential not only for an
efficient and effective government but also for an efficient working market
economy and will significantly facilitate the prospects to enter the EU
within a reasonable time period. An efficient working market economy can
allocate investments to those sectors that will bring the largest return to
the country in the form of sustained and high growth. The PSAL measures
- 4 -



would also provide a positive signal to international institutions and
investors regarding the Government's commitment to reform and the transition
towards a full fledge market economy.
19.     Risks.  Institutional and governance reform is inherently risky.    Any
number of contingencies could divert attention from, and could thereby
sidetrack or even derail, the process of building the institutional
infrastructure necessary for improved public sector performance. Such risks
are heightened by the limited time that on average a Government is able to
stay in office. The other important risk would be failure to maintain
macroeconomic stability, which would decrease the confidence in the current
exchange rate arrangements and would result in capital flight and a possible
return of high inflation and interest rates. Lack of political commitment
could delay fiscal adjustment and the implementation of structural reforms
and could also impede the reform process of the pension system, which in turn
would severely undermine fiscal sustainability. Poor coordination among the
ministries involved is a further risk that could adversely affect the
program's implementation.
20.     To reduce these risks, the IBRD will continue to assist the Government
in mobilizing the technical assistance necessary to adopt and implement the
reforms and would also deepen the ongoing dialogue with the Government on
structural reform and would work closely with the other donors (and the NGOs)
to provide this technical assistance. Moreover, the PSAL disbursements are
strictly tied to the adoption of policy conditions. The inter-ministerial
work group under the coordination of the Ministry of Finance, which helped in
the preparation of the PSAL, is expected to continue its work during the
implementation phase of the Loan and to improve coordination among the
implementing agencies. Subsequent Bank group operations would seek to
sustain and deepen the reforms initiated under this operation.
Contact Point:
Jos Verbeek, ECSPE
The World Bank Office in Warsaw
53 Emilii Plater Str.
Warsaw Financial Center, 9th Floor
00-113 Warsaw, Poland
Telephone No.:   (++48-22) 520-8037
Fax No.:         (++48-22) 520-8000
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending July 13, 2001.
- 5 -



