Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7556
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
SECOND PROGRAMMATIC STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20.21 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
August 15, 2002
[his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of July 31, 2002)
Currency Unit= Lats
USS1.00= LVL 0.60
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AU      Anticorruption Unit                              MoAg      Ministry of Agriculture
BFI     Budget Financed Institutions                     MoF       Ministry of Finance
BPAR    Bureau of Public Administration Reform           MoJ       Ministry of Justice
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                     MoPSR     Ministry of Public Sector & Regional Reform
CEM     Country Economic Memorandum                      M-O-M     Month on Month
CIS     Commonwealth of Independent States               NATO      North Atlantic Treaty Organization
COM     Cabinet of Ministers                             NDP       National Development Plan
CPS     Corruption Prevention Council                    NTR       National Telecommunications Regulator
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment Review            OECD      Organization for Economic Cooperation & Development
CPB     Corruption Prevention Bureau                     OED       Operations Evaluation Department
CPI     Consumer Price Index                             PAC       Public Accounts Committee
CSA     Civil Service Administration                     PAR       Public Administration Reform
DDO     Deferred Drawdown Option                         PAYGO     Pay As You Go
DEM     German Mark                                      PEM       Public Expenditure Management
EBRD    European Bank for Reconstruction & Development   PER       Public Expenditure Review
ESW     Economic & Sector Work                           PLP       Programmatic Lending Program
EU       European Union                                  PSAL      Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan
FCMC    Financial & Capital Market Commission            PUC       Public Utilities Comrnmission
FIAS    Foreign Investment Advisory Service              RHS       Right Hand Scale
FDI     Foreign Direct Investment                        SAL       Structural Adjustment Loan
FSAP    Financial Sector Assessment Program              SAO       State Audit Office
FSL     Fixed Spread Loan                                SAPARD    Special Assistance Program for Agricultural & Rural Dev
FSU     Former Soviet Union                              SBA       Stand-By Arrangement
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                           SDR       Special Drawing Right
GKO     Gosudarspvennyi Kazanacheiskiye Obligatsii       SIGMA     Support for Improvement in Govemance & Management
GMI     Guaranteed Minimum Income                        SRS       State Revenue Service
G-24    Group 24                                         TA        Technical Assistance
IBRD    Intemational Bank for Reconstruction & Development  TSO    Transmission System Operator
IDF     Institutional Development Fund                   UNDP      United Nations Development Program
IFC     Intemational Finance Corporation                 US        United States
IFI     Intemational Finance Institution                 VN        Ventspils Nafta
IMF     Intemational Monetary Fund                       WTO       World Trade Organization
KE      Knowledge Economy                                Y-O-Y     Year on Year
LASCO   Latvian Shipping Company
LBFM    Law on Budget & Financial Management
LDA     Latvian Development Agency
LHS     Left Hand Scale
LPA     Latvian Privatization Agency
Vice President:          Johannes F. Linn
Country Director           Roger W. Grawe
Sector Director           Cheryl W. Gray
Sector Manager:           Kyle Peters, Bemard Funck (Acting)
Team Leader:            C6lestin Monga



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND PROGRAMMATIC STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROGRAM             SUMMARY ..........................     ...................................i
I.   INTRODUCTION .....................................1.........................
II.  Recent Economic Developments And Prospects ..........................................................2
Macroeconomic Performance and Poverty ............................................................. 2
Structural reforms .............................................................5
Medium-Term Prospects and Creditworthiness ............................................................6
III. LATVIA'S DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND THE PSAL PROGRAM .............9
Objectives and Components of the PSAL Program ......................................................9
Overall Assessment of the Program Since PSAL I ..................................................... 10
Evaluation of Each Component of the Reform Program ............................................. 12
IV. THE WORLD BANK STRATEGY ............................................................    31
Country Assistance Strategy ............................................................  3 1
Coordination with the IMF and other Donors ............................................................ 32
V.   THE PROPOSED LOAN (PSAL I) ............................................................  35
Objectives and Design ............................................................     35
Poverty and Social Impact Analysis ............................................................  36
Specific Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation ................................................... 36
Strengthening the public sector's institutional capacity .............................................. 37
Rationalizing the interactions between the public and private sector .......................... 38
Progress Benchmarks and Triggers for Considering PSAL III .................................... 39
Monitoring and Evaluation .............................................................  41
Loan Administration .............................................................      41
Benefits and Risks ............................................................        42
VI.   RECOMMENDATION ............................................................           43
The World Bank team for this operation was led by Celestin Monga. The operation was initiated with los Verbeek as
task manager (until October 2001). The team included: Alexander E. Fleming, Lars A. Jeurling, Dick Welch (ECSPF);
M Louise Fox (HDN VP); loannis N. 'Kessides (DECRG), Kathy Lalazarian, Pascale N. Kervyn De Lettenhove, Randi
Susan Ryterman (ECSPE); M. Helen Sutch (PRMPS); Gary Stuggins (ECSEG); Nightingale-Rukuba-Ngaiza (LEGEC),
David Satola (LEGPS); David Freese, (LOAGI); Dorris Herrera-Pol, Jose F. Molina, Hala D. Khattar (BCFPS);
Inguna Dobraja, Dina Grube. Hilmar Thor Hilmarsson,.Andrejs Jakobsons, Normunds Malnacs (ECCLV); Alison
Panton, Rosario C Hablero. and 'Erlindd B. Inglis (ECSPE). Peer Reviewers included Barbara Lee (PSIVP); Nick
Manning (PRMPS), and Joel Hellinman (ECSPE). Pradeep Mitra, Kyle Peters, Bernard Funck (ECSPE), Christopher L.
Hall, Michael F. Carter (ECCU7), and Stefan Koeberle (OPCPG) provided advice and guidance.'
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



List of Tables/Figure:
1. Latvia's Program       Supported by PSAL ...........................................                                  10
2. Achievements on Key Benchmarks for Moving to PSAL                        II ......................................... 23
3. Latvia's PSAL Program            and Its Analytical Underpinnings .......................................... 33
Annexes
1. Latvia at a Glance ...........................................                                                        44
2. Key Economic Indicators ...........................................                                                    46
3. Balance of Payments ...........................................                                                        47
4. Letter of Development Policy ...........................................                                               48
5. Policy Matrix ...........................................                                                             68
6. Key Exposure Indicators ...........................................                                                    92
7. Operations Portfolio-EBRD ...........................................                                                 93
8. Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio ...........................................                           94



REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
SECOND PROGRAMMATIC STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                        Republic of Latvia
Amount:                          US$20.21 million
Terms:                           Customized terms (6 years grace with 13 years to full
repayment for a fixed-spread loan). Although Latvia
moved to Country Category IV as of July 1, 2002,
because the negotiations commenced prior to July 1,
2002, Latvia is still eligible for amortization terms for a
Category III Borrower.
Commitment Fee:                  The government has elected the Deferred Drawdown
Option (DDO): I percent on undisbursed amounts,
beginning 60 days after the loan agreement is signed,
payable during the drawdown period while DDO is not
exercised.
Front end fee:                   A front end fee of 1 percent of each withdrawn amount
will be paid to the Bank from the loan proceeds only
following any drawdowns.
Objectives and Description:      The proposed loan of US$20.21 million is the second
Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan (PSAL) to
support Latvia's reform program as outlined in Report
No. P 7352 LV. At the outset of the program, it was
envisaged that over a 3-year period there could be up to
three single or two tranche PSALs to support the
implementation of Latvia's reform program amounting
to an overall resource envelope of approximately
US$100 million.   Reform  objectives and Latvia's
program have remained the same since the Board
discussed PSAL I namely to:
*  Sustain   a   growth-oriented  macroeconomic
framework;
* Strengthen credibility of the public sector;
* Jmprove institutional capacity to deliver public
services; and
* Build a transparent relationship with the private
sector.
The Latvian authorities expect to achieve these
objectives by implementing specific reforms in the areas
of (i) fiscal policy; (ii) public sector management; (iii)



human resources management; and (iv) privatization and
regulation (of public utilities and private business).
PSAL I supported the initiation of these reforms. PSAL
[I will support measures already taken to implement
those reforms and assist newly created public sector
institutions in their initial period of operation. PSAL II
will also provide external resources to the government
should there be a financing need prior to the closing date
at end-2003. The government has elected the Deferred
Drawdown Option (DDO) for this purpose.
Benefits:                         The actions under PSAL   II will promote fiscal
adjustment and improve the public sector's capacity to
carry out its role effectively and efficiently. At the same
time the actions supported by the loan will encourage
private sector development by continuing the
privatization process and defining a transparent and
effective regulatory framework. The operation will also
assist in the government's anticorruption effort and
streamline business regulation, leading both to a more
efficient government and a better functioning market
economy. Together, these measures will be a positive
signal to domestic and foreign investors about Latvia's
business environment, and enhance the benefits that
Latvia will garner from timely EU accession. Finally,
enhanced public sector service delivery capacity will
help ensure that these benefits are broadly shared within
Latvia.
Risks:                            The deterioration of the current account deficit remains
the main macroeconomic risk to sustaining a high
growth regime in Latvia. Given the currency peg, a
shortfall in political commitment to fiscal balance could
undermine overall sustainability. The highly politicized
environment in Latvia also affects political comrnitment
to public sector reform generally, especially in a
program with such a significant emphasis on improved
governance. Such risks are heightened by the frequent
changes of government that have characterized Latvia
since independence. In addition, continuing dependence
on multiparty coalition governments with varying
ministerial portfolios increases the risk of poor
interministerial coordination and policy interventions by
special interest groups.
These risks are mitigated to a substantial extent by the
design and content of the PSAL loan as a single tranche
operation linked to prior actions.  The Latvian
Government has a strong track record of reform
implementation and commitment to macroeconomic
balance even in difficult political circumstances, as
- ii -



evidenced by their agreement with the IMF on ambitious
macroeconomic targets for the SBA and ability to
support the currency peg over an 8-year period of
considerable economic turmoil. The World Bank will
continue to assist the government to mobilize the
technical assistance required to adopt and implement its
program.   Latvia's strong determination to join the
European Union also facilitates the continuity of the
programmatic approach supported by the PSAL
program. An interministerial work group under the
coordination of the Ministry of Finance, which helped in
the preparation of PSAL U, and I, will continue its work
during the implementation phase of the reform program
and improve coordination among the implementing
agencies.
Schedule of Disbursements:       Deferred Drawdown   Option.   US$20.21  million
available immediately after loan effectiveness (expected
in October 2002).
Poverty Category:                Not applicable
Rate of Return:                  Not applicable
Project ID Number:               LV-PE-69890
Map                              IBRD No. 30692
- iii -






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
SECOND PROGRAMMATIC STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
Second Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan (PSAL II) to the Republic of Latvia for an
amount equivalent to US$20.21 million to support the Government's structural reform
program. The loan will be on customized terms (6 years grace with 13 years to full
repayment for a fixed-spread loan). The government has selected the Deferred Drawdown
Option (DDO) for this operation. The proposed loan is an integral part of the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS)' to support the implementation of the government's National
Development Program (NDP). The PSAL II would be the second in a series of three loans
planned for FYOO-04. The Bank's Board approved the first single-tranche PSAL for Latvia in
March 20002. The loan established a rolling medium-term policy framework setting out a 3-
year reform program aimed at implementing the country's medium-term reform program,
with specific progress benchmarks and outcome indicators defined and agreed with the
government and other donors (IMF, EU).
2.     The implementation of the program supported by PSAL I has been satisfactory.
Nearly all core progress benchmarks'specified in PSAL I have been satisfied. In instances for
which the initial objectives proved too ambitious, especially given the limited capacity in the
public sector, authorities have adjusted the medium-term program, in full agreement with the
Bank and other partners. While PSAL I initiated many of the reforms in the program, PSAL
II supports their implementation and assists some newly created public sector institutions in
their early years of operation. Overall, satisfactory progress since the approval of PSAL I
fully warrants a move to PSAL II. Subject to satisfactory progress on the program outlined
in the proposed credit, it is envisaged that in FY04 there will be a final single-tranche loan,
PSAL III.
3.    It was clear at the outset of PSAL I that institutional reforms of this type take time
and that their exact scope, sequencing, and pace cannot be determined with full certainty at
the outset. Therefore, the Bank decided to use the PSAL instrument as it provides a medium-
term strategic framework to channel Bank support (financial as well as knowledge) to the
Government of Latvia. In addition, the programmatic adjustment lending instrument has
proven well-suited to support gradual institutional changes that are inherently unpredictable
and require flexibility. The proposed PSAL II would support reforms aimed at strengthening
the credibility of the public sector, the efficiency and effectiveness of the public sector's
capacity to deliver services, especially to the poor, and the rationalization of the interaction
between the public and private sector.
'See Latvia: Country Assistance Strategy - Report No. 23610-LV (April 2002).
2 See Latvia: Prograrnmatic Structural Adjustment Loan - Report No. P7352-LV (February 2000).
- 1 -



4.    Thanks to Latvia's track record as a strong reformer, the country's financial situation
has improved greatly over recent years. The 2001 joint World Bank/IMF Financial Sector
Assessment Program  (FSAP) carried out in 2001 pointed out several significant
improvements in consolidation of the banking sector as well as the entry of foreign investors.
It concluded that the financial sector has recovered from the Russia crisis and has created a
solid basis for further development. The government has decided to select the Deferred
Drawdown Option (DDO) for PSAL II, which offers the possibility of not tapping into the
resources until there is a need, as well as the absence of a penalty for non-use. Should the
need arise, the proposed PSAL II would thus provide fast-disbursing support to help address
Latvia's external financial needs and keep its medium-term reform program on'track.
5.    The board documentation of PSAL I contained not only actions agreed to be taken
prior to Board consideration and release of the first loan, but also measurable progress
benchmarks for subsequent PSALs. Therefore, the remainder of this document gives an
assessment of progress towards meeting the objectives of the reform program as outlined in
the first PSAL operation. It also discusses modifications to the program. The reforms
supported by the PSAL II program are laid out in the govermnent's Letter of Development
Policy [Annex 4] and reflected in the updated multiyear policy reforms program matrix. The
matrix shows measures completed with support of the first PSAL operation, as well as
measures, monitorable indicators, progress benchmarks, and expected outcomes for the
proposed PSAL II operation and a possible third PSAL loan [Annex 5].
II.   RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROSPECTS
Macroeconomic Performance and Poverty
6.    Economic Growth. Latvia has restored its previous track record on macroeconomic
performance. After dropping in 1994 and 1995, real GDP has grown on average by 5.1
percent annually.  Growing demand for Latvia's exports in both the traditional
Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) and new EU markets and sound trade policy
contributed to growth momentum in Latvia over the past 3 years. Led by investment and
private consumption, real GDP grew by 7.6 percent in 2001 (6.8 percent in 2000) and is
projected at 5 percent in 2002. Growth has been broad-based, with especially strong gains in
forestry, business services, financial intermediation, and manufacturing. The key factors in
building the growth momentum were the acceleration of domestic private and public demand.
Domestic consumer and investment demand were supported by growing real incomes and tax
revenues, and reinforced by improving consumer and investor confidence and projections of
rising real income in the medium term. Low capital intensive and fast-maturing foreign
direct investment (FDI) contributed to an increase in the productive capacity and
competitiveness of Latvia's manufacturing base. The economic expansion was easily
financed with relatively inexpensive domestic credit provided by a competitive financial
system.
7.    Monetary Policy. At an early stage of the adjustment process, Latvia introduced its
own currency, thus enabling the Bank of Latvia to pursue an independent monetary policy.
The right to issue the national currency is vested with the Bank of Latvia. Its main goal is to
maintain price stability, thus contributing to the process of restructuring the national
economy and controlling the amount of banks' reserves to limit excessive lending. The
-2 -



exchange rate policy of the Bank of Latvia is similar to that of a currency board, and the
monetary base is backed by gold and foreign currency reserves. Latvia has been using the
exchange-rate-based stabilization program since 1993. In mid-February 1994, the Bank of
Latvia pegged the Lats to the SDR basket of currencies and this served the country well.
After reaching 109 percent in 1993, CPI inflation has been at single digit levels since 1997.
In 2001 the CPI grew by 2.5 percent. Interest rates have come down significantly since the
1998 Russian crisis that affected the banking system. The annualized yield on a 12-month
Treasury bill, which was 10.4 percent at the beginning of January 1999, was 4.4 percent in
July 2002.
8.    Fiscal Policy. From the outset of the transition process, fiscal policy has been
conservative with a few notable exceptions caused by internal or external shocks. Due to
generally good fiscal discipline, Latvia has low levels of public debt, and its credit ratings
have improved, giving Latvia easier and less expensive access to international capital
markets. However, the fiscal situation in 1999 and even in 2000 showed the consequences of
the Russia crisis. From a surplus of 0.3 percent of GDP in 1997, the fiscal deficit rose to 3.9
percent of GDP in 1999 and remained relatively high in 2000 at 3.3 percent, above the target
agreed with the IMF. While strong progress was made in 2001 by reducing the fiscal deficit
to 1.9 percent of GDP, the budget for 2002 initially showed an increase of the fiscal deficit to
2.4 percent. Recent discussions between the IMF and the government in the framework of
the SBA have led the authorities to adopt a new fiscal deficit target of 1.8 percent of GDP in
2002.
9.    External Accounts. Following several years of small external current account
deficits that were entirely financed by foreign direct investment (FDI), Latvia's current
account deficit (including official transfers) rose from 6.1 percent of GDP in 1997 to 9.8
percent in 1999, with only half financed by FDI-a deterioration largely initiated by the
Russian crisis. There was some improvement in 2000 when the current account deficit was
brought to just under 7 percent of GDP in 2000 despite appreciation of the Lat against the
Euro and the rise in oil prices, but it widened again in 2001, reaching 10 percent of GDP.
Besides one-time ship purchases by the state-owned Latvian Shipping Company (LASCO)
that accounted for 1.5 percentage points of the deficit, the deterioration reflected weaker
external demand and strong domestic demand, especially for investment goods, which
continued in the first quarter of 2002.
10.   Like many transition economies, Latvia has recorded relatively modest saving rates
(17 percent of GDP on average over the past 5 years) while, simultaneously, investment
needs during transition have been high (gross domestic investment averaged 25 percent of
GDP in 1996-2001). Such conditions suggest that running a sustainable current account
deficit, both to smooth consumption over time and finance much-needed capital projects to
catch up with EU countries, may be necessary from a welfare viewpoint. This is confirmed
by the evolution of the commodity structure of foreign trade: while imports of food, drinks,
and tobacco decreased slightly from 6.2 percent of the total in 1996 to 6 percent in 2000,
imports of base metals products, machinery, electrical equipment, transport vehicles, and
parts increased from 29 to 37 percent of the total during the same period.
-3 -



11.    The current account deficit is projected to 8.5 percent of GDP in 2002. The large
investments needed in the medium term to sustain economic growth, coupled with a catch-up
in private sector consumption, will, however, necessitate a leveling off in improving the
extemal current account deficit, as imports will continue to grow strongly and FDI-related
profit remittances are expected to rise. On the other hand, a continued strengthening of
Latvian exports to the EU, together with diversification in the export base resulting from
broad-based FDI, is projected to materialize during the period 2003-2005. As FDI is
projected to remain buoyant-because of the forthcoming privatization of the remaining
large public enterprises like Ventspils Nafta and Lattelekom and the sale of new
telecommunications licenses-the external account is expected to be almost fully covered by
non-debt-creating flows, thereby containing Latvia's already favorable debt indicators.
12.   External Debt. In spite of the wider current account deficit and the lower FDI
coverage in 2001 than in previous years, Latvia's debt indicators-including those for short-
term debt-remain moderate. Public sector external debt represented 11.4 percent of GDP in
2001 and total extemal debt (excluding currency and deposits) represented 49.5 percent of
GDP. While the most comprehensive measures of short-term debt, including foreign
liabilities of the banking system, suggest that Latvia's short-term debt is high (43.6 percent of
GDP), these liabilities are largely matched by high-quality, liquid foreign assets.3 In addition,
the Latvian banking sector is sound and well supervised. The Financial and Capital Market
Commission (FCMC) has made substantial progress in implementing the recommendations
set forth in the 2001 Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP). Following the re-
approval of existing financial sector regulations, the FCMC will harmonize all sector-specific
legislation, regulations, and supervisory methods across sectors by end-December 2002 to
reap the full benefits of unified supervision. Risk profiles for financial institutions have been
prepared, and the FCMC will consider introducing a rating system for financial institutions to
enhance the effectiveness of its oversight function at a later date. In addition, the FCMC will
update its examination manual to effectively cover all branches of the financial sector.
Finally, the FCMC will continue to enhance risk-based supervision in all sectors and promote
the introduction of key consumer protection measures for the financial sector.
13.    Market sentiment towards Latvia has been very favorable over recent years. In
August 2001, rating agencies upgraded their outlook on Latvia sovereign foreign currency
debt and issued a positive report on the banking system. Developments in emerging markets
in late 2001 caused a temporary rise in Latvia's Eurobond spread, but it quickly came back
below 100 points. And despite the delay in completing the first review under the SBA, Latvia
successfully placed a second Eurobond in November 2001.
14.   Poverty and Unemployment. Growth has been strong across all sectors of the
economy, causing the unemployment rate to decrease from over 10 percent in the summer of
1999, at the height of the impact of the Russian crisis, to 8.1 percent at the end of April 2002.
While Latvia's ranking on the Human Development Index climbed from 72nd in 1997 to 63rd
in 2000, and negative trends in life expectancy and mortality have stopped, Latvia still has
3 According to a recent IMF study, over two-thirds of Latvian short-term debt consists of non-resident
deposits in commercial banks. These deposits are largely redeposited in foreign banks or placed in other
secure liquid foreign assets in OECD countries chosen to match the currencies and maturities of the
deposits. When assessing vulnerability, it is reasonable therefore to exclude non-resident deposits from
short-term debt or to net the liabilities with their corresponding assets.
-4 -



significant challenges in reducing poverty. First, it appears that the benefits of the rapid
economic recovery since the Russian crisis have not been shared equally among the
population of Latvia: the Gini coefficient increased from 0.30 in 1996 to 0.34 in 2000. The
2000 Poverty Assessment found that 19.4 percent of the population was in poverty in that
year.4 As in other countries in the region, such as Lithuania and Poland, and as was the case
in Latvia in the mid-1990s, poverty is higher in rural as compared to urban areas. In Riga
city, where most new investment has focused and where economic growth has created most
new opportunities, 10.8 percent of the population lives in poverty while rural poverty stands
at 28.5 percent. This also reflects marked regional differences in poverty; while Riga region
(encompassing Riga city and rural areas near the city) has a poverty rate of 12.6 percent, the
Latgale region of eastern Latvia, along the border with Russia, is the poorest region, with a
poverty headcount of 30 percent. The Poverty Assessment found that one important cause of
poverty is the weak public service delivery mechanisms and stressed the need for more
effective public institutions, hence the focus of this operation.
Structural Reforms
15.   Latvia has made great strides in building the institutions needed for developing a
market economy. For example, prices, trade, and other markets have been liberalized, and
needed legal reform, institutional development, and social safety net improvements are being
implemented. The remaining structural reform program is directed at attracting foreign
investment and sustaining growth. The focus of the agenda is to implement measures
identified as catalysts to improve the business climate, foster competition in the energy and
telecommunications sectors, complete the privatization of large-scale public enterprises, and
combat corruption.
16.   The restructuring and privatization process for state enterprises has been completed
with the notable exceptions of several large companies-Latvenergo (power), Lattelekom
(communications), and Ventspils Nafta (oil pipeline company). Recent privatization actions
included the sale of all remaining shares in Latvijas Gaze in February 2002 and the sale of
LASCO through an offering of 32 percent of its shares for vouchers and 51 percent of its
shares for cash on the Riga Stock Exchange at a price approved by the Board of the Latvian
Privatization Agency (the remainingl7 percent will go to employees, the State Pension Fund,
and the privatization reserve).5
17.   Parliament voted last year to put Latvenergo on the list of strategic companies not to
be privatized. The authorities went along with the decision in order to prevent a public
referendum that might have stopped privatization for many years to come and possibly
stopped efforts to restructure the company. Taking into account lessons learned in similar
situations in transition countries, the authorities and the Bank agreed that the appropriate
sequencing was for Latvenergo to be broken up first so that the government was not
privatizing a monopoly, real competition over the grid could be organized, and a regulatory
4As there is no official poverty line in Latvia, the report used a poverty line estimate of 28 Lats per month,
which is equal to Y/2 of the official Minimum Crisis Basket - a social minimum line defined by the
Govermment.
5 The company has come under the control of the Ventspils Nafta group. The World Bank would have
preferred that a larger share be sold to a strategic investor.
- 5-



framework consistent with EU requirements could be put in place. Thanks to reforms
supported by PSAL II, these steps have been taken. The government has adopted EU
Directive 96/92/EC concerning common rules for the internal market in electricity in
designing its electricity market and is adopting measures to further liberalize the market. The
restructuring program for Latvenergo prepared by the government is consistent with the EU
Directive. The government has increased the scope for bilateral trade for large customers by
decreasing the criteria for qualified customers from 100 GWh to 40 GWh. They plan to
deepen market opening next year by further decreasing the criteria to 20 GWh, significantly
increasing the number of consumers that can directly contract for electricity with independent
generation companies.
18.   With respect to Lattelekom, Sonera, its strategic investor, has taken the government
to arbitration court to resolve the issue of compensation for shortening the company's
exclusivity period from 2013 to 2003. The authorities have committed themselves to the
WTO and the EU to shorten this period. As indicated in the Letter of Development Policy,
they are also taking steps to implement the Telecommunication Law, which was adopted by
Saeima in 2001. The authorities recognize that the foundation of an efficient energy and
telecommunications sector is competition and sound regulation. To this end, and in line with
the strategy paper and work program of the Public Utilities Commission (PUC), the
government envisages a transition from regulated monopolies to regulatory frameworks for
competitive markets. Key steps in this direction include completing the restructuring program
of Latvenergo by end-2002 and implementing the recently adopted principles for tariff
setting, which will be applied across sectors.
19.   On Ventspils Nafta, the government has received the privatization plan and
company's financial valuation from the international investment bank hired to prepare
Ventspils Nafta's privatization. They have reaffirmed their commitment to privatizing their
shares in the company in 2003 in an open, competitive manner and at a fair price.
20.   The government has implemented 68 of the 77 suggested measures in its Action Plan
to Improve the Business Environment. The anticorruption fight was aided by the adoption of
key legislation and the creation of the Corruption Prevention Bureau (CPB), which ended
previous agency fragmentation in this area. These measures are considered adequate by
World Bank staff.
Medium-Term Prospects and Creditworthiness
21.   Latvia's prospects depend on its ability to reduce the current account deficit to
sustainable levels and implement structural reforms to improve the management,
accountability, and performance of the public sector, as supported by the PSAL program.
Given the role of fiscal policy as the main instrument to contain current account pressures in
view of Latvia's fixed exchange rate regime, the authorities recognize the need for fiscal
discipline. Reduction in the fiscal deficit will mainly come from limited expenditure
increases. Expenditure is expected to increase slightly to 39 percent of GDP in 2004 with
adequate resources directed towards such strategic priorities as EU and NATO accession.
Government revenue is projected to increase to about 38 percent of GDP. As a result,
Latvia's fiscal deficit is projected to fall below 1 percent of GDP in 2004. But the authorities'
intention to move toward a balanced fiscal position over the medium term will require major
efforts, especially in the implementation of policy measures to enhance control over local
-6 -



government-finances. The authorities have already adopted several key measures to enhance
local government fiscal control, including amendments to the Law on Local Government
Budgets clarifying that borrowing requires approval by the Ministry of Finance and is subject
to limits under the budget law.
22.   The current account deficit is expected to improve over the medium term. Sustained
implementation of structural reforms would foster private sector activity, enhance efficiency,
promote job creation, and spur growth. Large public and private investment needs suggest,
however, that improvements in the current account may come only slowly, and would mainly
result from further fiscal consolidation. Nevertheless, FDI inflows would keep external debt
at moderate levels.
23.   Sources of Growth. Growth will depend in the medium term on how the government
interacts with the private sector. Hence, a continuation of the initiated structural reforms,
particularly privatization, liberalization, and development of institutions that enhance the
market environment, will be important to maintain the economy's current momentum.
Therefore, the government's program aims to implement reforms that improve its credibility,
strengthening the way the government handles its financial as well as human resources and
improving its ability to credibly commit to a regulatory environment that supports a dynamic
market economy.
24.   Initially GDP growth is to be driven by further export gains in the EU and a
consolidation of the recovery of exports to the CIS. GDP is expected to grow at around 5
percent in 2002, and GDP growth is expected to stabilize around that percentage in the
medium term. Furthermore, GDP growth will depend significantly on the implementation of
the PSAL-supported reform program. Further improvements in the functioning of the
Government of Latvia, in particular, its interaction with the private sector and lowering the
costs and barriers to investment will increase the private sector's willingness and ability to
invest. Private investments (excluding changes in stocks) recovered strongly during 2001.
They increased from 22.6 percent of GDP in 2000 to 23.7 percent in 2001 and are expected
to stabilize around 23 percent in 2005. As public investment is expected to increase as well
from around 3.7 percent of GDP for 2001 to around 5 percent by 2004, mostly driven by EU
accession investment requirements, overall investments are expected to rise to close to 30
percent of GDP in 2004.
7-



25.   Financing Requirements. Under the above-outlined scenario, Latvia will need
substantial capital inflows to finance its current account balance. The current account
deficit is expected to improve from an estimated 10 percent for 2001 to 7.3 percent of
GDP in 2004.
26.   Between 2002 and 2004, the gross external financing needs are estimated at about
US$2.84 billion. These resources are necessary to finance US$2.04 billion in current account
deficits, US$269 million in increases in international reserves, and the remainder-US$528
million-to fulfill debt repayment obligations. Direct foreign investment is expected to
finance about 50 percent of these needs, driven by privatizing the remaining large enterprises
to strategic foreign investors, improving the investment climate through business
deregulation, and establishing a stable regulatory framework. Public resources will finance
11 percent of these financial requirements, of which 80 percent will be through loans. The
remainder of the public sector foreign financing will come from grants, mostly from the EU.
The final 37 percent of the financing needs for the period 2002-04 will have to come from
loans directed towards the private sector in Latvia.
27.    The fiscal consolidation to occur with the assistance of the PSAL and the second
SBA with the vIMF should further reduce the government's needs to borrow abroad
commercially. Reducing the fiscal deficit will also lead to a sigrificant reduction in the
need for domestic deficit financing. Latvia's public and publicly guaranteed medium-
termh and long-termn debts are expected to slowly decrease in the coming years with the
expected imnprovement of the current account balance. However, total external debt may
increase to around 55 percent of GDP in 2004, up from 49.5 percent at the end of 2001.
The ratio of total debt service to exports will decrease to around 4.7 percent of exports by
2003, again as a result of decreased borrowing needs relative to GDP and exports.6
6 Source: Calculations based on the International Investmnent Position of Latvia, published by the Bank of
Latvia. These numbers exclude Currency and Deposits.
- 8 -



IE.    LATVIA'S DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND THE PSAL PROGRAM
Objectives and Components of the PSAL Program
28.   The main thrust of the PSAL-supported program is improving governance, for
example, directly through business regulation or indirectly through transparency and
accountability of government.  Such improvements will further enhance the institutional
capacity to support a market economy. The 2000 Poverty Assessment identified ineffective
public sector institutions and weak governance as important constraints to growth and
equitable development in Latvia. Various studies carried out by the government and donors
have also concluded that ineffective public sector institutions, insufficient human capacity,
misguided resource allocation, public intervention in some sectors where market failures are
not observed, lack of transparency in the use of public funds, and corruption have deterred
private investment, which is an essential ingredient to higher growth, better employment
opportunities, and poverty reduction. An ineffective public sector has also led to inadequate
service delivery outside Riga, the capital city.
29.   Refocusing the role of the state and promoting good governance are two of the main
guiding principles of Latvia's National Development Plan. The government's strategy
assumes that the state will only intervene in the context of a clear definition of its powers and
role as compared with those of civil society and the private sector. Public intervention will be
guided by two major motivations: compensating for market failures in the allocation of
resources and promoting social equity. Against that background, public sector reform is
considered a prerequisite to the successful implementation of Latvia's EU accession strategy.
The PSAL program assists the government in introducing a better-targeted social assistance
system for the poor. It supports these objectives by facilitating a return to a more
conservative fiscal position and by helping create transparent and accountable institutional
capacity to appropriately interact with the private sector and Latvian citizens in a market-
driven economy. The public sector reform program, therefore, consists of a multiyear
modernization of Latvia's public sector, particularly in the following policy areas: (i)
maintaining macro-stability, especially through a lower fiscal deficit; (ii) improving public
governance; (iii) improving effectiveness and efficiency of service delivery, especially to the
poor; and (iv) finalizing the privatization process and implementing an effective regulatory
framework. The objectives, reform areas, and priorities of those components of Latvia's
reform program that the PSAL program supports are shown in Table 1.
-9-



TABLE 1. LATVIA's REFORM PROGRAM SUPPORTED BY PSAL
Objectives             Reform Areas                             Priorities
A. Retuming to a Macro   *   Fiscal and Monetary  *   Correcting the macro-imbalances that re-emerged
Economic Framework           Policy                   after the Russian crisis
Conducive to robust
growth                   *   Pension Reform       *   Ensuring financial viability of the pension system
B. Strengthening the     *   Anticorruption       *   Reducing risks and opportunities for corruption in
Credibility of the Public                             Govemment and the Judiciary
Sector
*   Govemment            *   Strengthening transparency and reporting of the
Accountability and       ministries and bodies subordinated, supervised and
Transparency             managed by them
C. Strengthening the     *   Administrative       *   Streamlining the structure of the public sector
Public Sector Institutional  Efficiency           *   Increasing the efficiency and transparency of the
Capacity                                              public sector
*   Human Resource       *   Improving incentives for recruitment and retention of
Management               staff
*   Public Expenditure   *   Developing transparent and unified public accounts
Management           *   Strengthening accountability for the use of resources
.   Developing performance oriented-budgets in line
ministries
*   Developing a medium-term budget
*   Enhancing local accountability
*   Social Assistance    *   Preventing negative consequences to households of
poverty
D. Rationalizing the     *   Privatization and    *   Moving most of the significant remaining
interaction between the      Regulation               commercial state firms to the private sector.
public and private sector                         *   Fostering the development of stable governance
structures
*   Financial Supervision  *  Achieving a uniform approach to supervision of
finance and capital markets
*   Strengthening of financial supervision system with
particular emphasis on non-bank financial institutions
*   Business Regulation  *   Strengthening of the legal and regulatory process
Overall Assessment of the Program Since PSAL I
30.     Main    Outcomes. Overall, the program         under PSAL      I, as measured against the
original policy triggers, has been successfully implemented and progress fully justifies
moving to PSAL II.
31.     The first PSAL focused in large part on initiating reforms in the areas of fiscal
transparency, regulation, and government structure. It, therefore, supported a significant
amount of drafting of new legislation and amendments to existing legislation, which was
submitted to and/or adopted by the Saeima. In addition, the Cabinet adopted several
regulations to start implementation of the reform program. The preparation of the Public
- 10-



Sector Agency Law and the Law on Public Service Regulators are two examples of how the
PSAL program slowly but surely is moving from an agenda with a strong focus on drafting of
legislation and regulation to an agenda that focuses on implementation of the adopted
legislation and regulations.
32.   The adoption by the Saeima of the Public Sector Agency Law is a major step towards
improved accountability for and transparency of budget resources. It also makes the
government's budget more comprehensive by requiring all funds to be recorded with the
Treasury. Until the adoption, public sector agencies were allowed to operate under private
sector based legislation such as the Joint Stock Company Law. The new legislation makes
them operate under an appropriate legal framework accompanied with adequate provisions
for ensuring accountability, but also with enough managerial flexibility to improve service
delivery. PSAL II and III will focus on assisting the government with implementing this
important piece of legislation.
33.   Another example of progress along these lines is the adoption of the Law on Public
Service Regulators, which establishes a single Public Utilities Regulatory Board. PSAL I
supported drafting and submitting the law to the Saeima as well as developing an
implementation plan. PSAL II and III would focus on implementing the law, which was
adopted by the Saeima in October 2000. The reform program supported by the two loans will
assist with drafting the subsidiary legislation and creating the Board as well as building up
the capacity needed to make it operational.
34.   Adjustments to the PSAL Program. There are a few notable exceptions to this
overall satisfactory record. As explained in Table 2, these concern the following policy
areas: (i) adoption by the Saeima of a new criminal procedures code and (ii) privatization of
Lattelekom, Latvenergo, and Ventspils Nafta (see paras. 14-16). In response, the Bank (i)
delayed Board discussion of PSAL II, (ii) agreed with the authorities on a US$20 million
loan instead of the original amount of US$40 million, and (iii) reviewed the medium-term
program with the authorities and other major donors to take better account of capacity
constraints and evolving knowledge of existing conditions. In instances where the initial
objectives were too ambitious, especially given the public sector's limited capacity, the
medium-term program has been adjusted, in full agreement with the Bank and other donors.
For instance, in the case of the Latvenergo privatization, the Bank took another look at the
Latvenergo privatization and agreed with the sequencing proposed by the authorities (getting
the regulatory framework right and dividing up the company to bring more competition to the
sector).
35.   On the other hand, the Latvian Government has also undertaken new initiatives
surpassing the initial understanding under the PSAL that aire partly based upon new analytical
work done by the Bank and overlap with the PSAL program in the areas of anticorruption
and policy coordination and strategic planning.  In light of these developments, the
government and the Bank agreed to adapt the program to reflect new initiatives and re-
prioritize the program as necessary.



Evaluation of Each Component of the Reform Program
(See Table 2 below)
Component A: Returning to a Macroeconomic Framework Conducive to Robust Growth
Correcting the macro-imbalances that reemerged after the Russian crisis
36.   Issues Prior to PSAL I. In late 1998 and early 1999, economic developments in
Latvia were dominated by the negative spillover of the Russian crisis on the financial and
trade sectors. Real GDP declined by about 0.5 percent on an annual basis in the first half of
1999 after having contracted by 1.7 percent in the fourth quarter of 1998. The collapse in the
CIS export market led to a sharp rise in the extemal current account deficit in the latter part
of 1998, contributing to a deficit of almost 10 percent of GDP in 1998 and 1999. The fiscal
outcome for 1999 was affected adversely by the impact on revenue of slower economic
growth, as well as the higher pension and unemployment benefits and wage increases granted
in late 1998. As a result, the consolidated general govemment deficit reached 3.9 percent of
GDP in 1999.
37.   Performance under PSAL I and Remaining Agenda. The government reduced its
fiscal deficit in 2000 but by less than that agreed with the IMF, i.e., from 3.9 percent for 1999
to 3.3 percent of GDP for 2000. The outcome for 2000 was an improvement relative to 1999,
but disappointing in the light of the economy's strong recovery during 2000. This lower-
than-expected deficit reduction reflected a shortfall in tax revenues caused by difficulties
collecting excise taxes and unexpected corporate income tax repayments that stemmed from
the 1999 economic downtum, as well as increased spending. As a result the govemment
missed the performance criteria for the general govemment deficit under the first SBA
program for end-September and end-December 2000. The authorities were able to reduce the
fiscal deficit to 1.9 percent of GDP in 2001.
38.   As noted in paras. 5-10, recent macroeconomic developments in Latvia have been
very positive. The only discouraging development was that the extemal current account
deficit was 8.5 percent of GDP in 2001 (excluding the one-time effect of the purchase of
three tankers by the Latvian Shipping Company) and is projected to remain at the same level
in 2002.
39.   Reforns Supported by PSAL II. The govenmment recognizes that establishing
macroeconomic stability will provide a firm basis for the economic restructuring necessary to
move the economy onto a sustained growth path and maintaining it requires swift
implementation of the structural and public sector reform agenda supported by the PSAL. In
the framework of the dialogue on PSAL II, the Latvian authorities have agreed to a further
reduction of the fiscal deficit that would ensure a viable current account balance and reduce
Latvia's vulnerability to extemal shocks in the future. This is consistent with the IMF
program: The SBA targets a fiscal deficit of 1.8 percent of GDP in 2002 and 1.5 percent in
2003.
Ensuring financial sustainabilitv of the pension system
40.   Issues Prior to PSAL I. In 1998, the Latvian authorities adopted two measures that
severely affected the financial sustainability of the pension system: (i) the govemment
-12-



provided a one-off pension increase that permanently raised all pensions by approximately 10
percent, and (ii) the government allowed a recalculation of pensions for pensioners who
continued to work that was regressive and unfair as it more than doubled pensions for a select
group of pensioners. In the fall of 1999, a new government took office and proposed a set of
emergency measures to restore financial viability to the pension system. Unfortunately, the
amendments did not get the full support of the Saeima, and a weaker set of measures was
approved. As a consequence, the pension system was able to return to a much-needed
surplus and still has incentive mechanisms in place that are unfair and economically
inefficient.
41.   Performance under PSAL I and Remaining Agenda. With support from PSAL I, the
Saeima adopted legislation to establish a second tier of the pension system, for which the
Ministry of Finance has developed implementation arrangements. The government has
begun a campaign to communicate the how and why of pension reform to the population. The
.government's reform program is geared towards completing the pension reform agenda by
2005 and achieving an equitable and financially sound system that is less likely to contribute
to macro-imbalances when the economy is affected by an adverse shock. In 2001, further
pension reform resulted in the creation of a three-tier pension system that is one of the most
advanced among the transition countries. It includes a privately funded and managed pillar.
Mechanisms for better targeting of social assistance are being implemented.
42.   Reforms Supported by PSAL II. The PSAL is assisting the government in its efforts to
ensure that the pension system deficit is eliminated, savings are increased, and equality of
treatment within age cohorts is improved. The government has taken steps to ensure that the
fiscal impact of the pension system is clear and it is financially viable in the future. After a
review was conducted of the November 1999 amendments' impacts, new amendments to the
Pension Law were submitted to and subsequently adopted by the Saeima. They remove all
prohibitions to working and taking a pension, curb early retirement, and regulate future
indexation. The authorities are reviewing progress with the implementation of the second tier
and will adopt changes if necessary. They have also developed regulations to permit private
sector asset management.
Component B: Strengthening the Credibility of the Public Sector
Reducing risks and opportunities for corruption in government and the judiciary
43.   Issues Prior to PSAL I. The 2000 World Bank report on corruption7 characterized
Latvia as a country with medium levels of administrative corruption and high levels of state
capture. The government recognized this result and revised its anticorruption strategy to put
appropriate emphasis on curbing state capture while ensuring appropriate emphasis on
combating administrative forms of corruption. The Corruption Prevention Council (CPC)
formed in 1997 was responsible for developing and implementing an anticorruption strategy,
but was considered largely ineffective. Within the State Revenue Service (SRS), an
Anticorruption Unit (AU) had been operating and was responsible for evaluating declarations
of income and assets of public officials to identify cases of conflict of interest as well as
illicit enrichment. The government agreed that the procedures used by the AU were not
7 See the World Bank report Anticorruption in Transition: a Contribution to the Policy Debate prepared for
the World Bank-IMF 2000 Annual Meetings in Prague.
- 13 -



sufficiently developed to fulfill this important task. Judicial reform was high on the
govemment's agenda and the Cabinet of Ministers had mandated the Ministry of Justice to
develop an action plan to consolidate the judiciary system. Yet, despite the govemment's
efforts, public opinion polls repeatedly ranked judicial institutions among the most corrupt
and inefficient public institutions in the country.
44.   Performance under PSAL I and Remaining Agenda. As it was clear that the CPC
required additional staff and resources to function properly, the govemment appointed an
Executive Head of the Secretariat to the CPC and endowed the secretariat with adequate staff
positions and resources. To improve the CPC's transparency and accountability to the
public, a regulation was put in place allowing the CPC to publish the status of
implementation of all measures identified in the anticorruption program. In addition, the CPC
was asked to establish a mechanism to effectively monitor and report on changes of
corruption in the public sector. For the latter, preparatory work was initiated by the CPC, but
it has not been able to establish effectively its monitoring capacity.
45.   In the framework of the PSAL program, the govenmment requested that the AU and
relevant agencies develop a set of guidelines to effectively identify conflict of interest and
cases of illicit enrichment. These guidelines consist of: (i) forms for declarations of income
and assets, and a training manual on how to process and assess the declarations, (ii) a manual
and training curriculum for public sector employees that will guide them in situations of
conflict of interest, and (iii) a draft manual and curriculum for training public sector
employees in situations of conflict of interest. In addition, these declarations have been
submitted by key government officials, such as the President of the State, (Deputy) Prime
Minister(s), Ministers, and parliamentary secretaries, and published. Although the
government published the above-mentioned declarations, it was not able to develop fully
points (i), (ii), and (iii) as the AU functioned without a manager for 6 months. A new
manager was appointed in November 2000, and the government decided to draft a new law
regulating prevention of conflict of interest and illicit enrichment.
46.   With regard. to judicial reforms, the Minister of Justice has adopted several
instructions to: (i) provide greater transparency in communications between judges and
litigants in criminal and civil cases, (ii) mandate an element of randomization in assigning
judges to handle court cases where appropriate, (iii) require all court decisions and rulings to
be made public, and (iv) provide training to judges and prosecutors in new laws prior to their
enactment.
47.   Reforms Supported by PSAL II. Public accountability and transparency are key
elements of the PSAL program. The authorities reevaluated their anticorruption strategy and
set up three different working groups: (i) one that is redrafting the anticorruption law; (ii) one
that is designing a new anticorruption unit, the Corruption Prevention Bureau, which would
combine the responsibilities of the anticorruption unit of the State Revenue Service and the
Corruption Prevention Council and also have limited investigative powers; and (iii) a third
group that worked on a new set of laws regulating the financing of political parties and
election campaigns.  These laws have appropriate safeguards and mechanisms for
transparency, accountability, and audit. They have all been adopted by Parliament.
- 14-



Strengthening the transparency and accountability of public sector institutions
48.   Issues Prior to PSAL I. In the first years of independence, Latvia followed the
example of many other countries and delegated the execution of policies to semi-autonomous
public sector agencies. This was done in an ad hoc manner and without having a clearly
defined institutional framework of public administration or legislative framework for
operation of the agencies, especially financial management, in place. In 1998, the
government passed the law on openness of information and implementation regulation.
However, many government officials were not aware of the implications of this regulation
nor had the ministries set up capacity to respond to requests for information by the public. In
1999, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted an instruction on Annual Public Reports, and all
ministries were requested to prepare and circulate the first drafts of these annual reports.
However, the format of these reports needed to be revised to focus more on actual
performance. Also, regulatory bodies and inspectorates had to be added to the list of public
institutions that are required to submit these reports.
49.   Performance under PSAL I and Remaining Agenda. To improve the legislation, the
laws on institutional framework of public administration and public sector agencies were
drafted and submitted to the Saeima for their enactment. In the meantime, -the Cabinet of
Ministers adopted a moratorium on the creation of public sector agencies until the Saeima
had adopted the law on Public Sector Agencies. The Law on Public Sector Agencies was
enacted in March 2001. For the law on the institutional framework for public administration,
the Saeima decided to expand its scope to include all public sector structures as well as
combine it with the existing law, which guides the responsibilities and operations of the
Cabinet of Ministers. To further enhance access to public information, the Cabinet of
Ministers adopted regulations for implementing the law on openness of information, which
stipulates more clearly the classification of information and the institutional arrangements for
ensuring access to information. For 2000, all public institutions, including regulatory bodies
and inspectorates, had to prepare an annual report. To follow up on the initiated reforms with
respect to reporting requirements for public bodies, the government and the Bank have
decided to review the current procedures. As a consequence, the government adopted
amendments to its instruction on Public Annual Reports. These amendments, which require
the preparation of more performance-focused reports, have been adopted by the Cabinet of
Ministers and are to be used in all public institutions, including regulators.
50.   Reforms Supported by PSAL II. In the framework of PSAL II, in March 2001, the
government prepared and submitted to Saeima the Law on Public Sector Agencies, which
defines a transparent, accountable, and financial management regime for public sector
agencies. A second law, on the framework of public administration, was also adopted in June
2002, which regulates the establishment, subordination, control, accountability, and funding
arrangements for public administration bodies.
- 15 -



Component C: Strengthening the Public Sector's Institutional Capacity
Streamlining the structure of the public sector and increasing administrative efficiency and
transparency
51.   Issues Prior to PSAL I. Latvia's public administrative structures, its pay structure,
and its ability to deliver services effectively had not kept up with demands for govemment
services and interventions by the. dynamic market-driven economy in which it operates.
Also, several studies highlighted the need for better coordination and strategic planning at the
center of government. For example, there were a number of ministries and entities at the
center of government responsible for public sector reform initiatives: the Ministry of Finance
led public expenditure management reforms and the Ministry of Economy prepared Latvia's
strategic vision for economic development and public investment program. A department in
the Ministry of Finance coordinated the national development plan and handled technical
assistance as well as grants and loans from EU, EBRD, and the World Bank; the Ministry for
Public Sector Reform and Local Government Reforms (MoPSR) was responsible for public
administration and civil service issues.
52.   Performance under PSAL I and Remaining Agenda. As a result of the reforms
supported by PSAL I, the govermnent decided to reorganize the Chancellery and give it
policy coordination and strategic planning responsibilities.  The PSAL program also
supported actions to facilitate building up capacity within government, particularly in the
Chancellery, to better coordinate policy and facilitate strategic planning. The govemment
worked with the World Bank and the European Delegation to streamline the structure of the
public sector as a means to increase its effectiveness and efficiency. To support this work
and address the reforms of the public administration more adequately, the govemment
merged the Bureau of Public Administration Reform (BPAR) with the Secretariat of the
Minister of Special Assignments for Public Sector and Regional Reforms (MoPSR). To
ensure that the secretariat could successfully fulfill its mission, it prepared a blueprint of
public administrative reforms. The blueprint clearly assigned responsibilities for the design
and coordination of specific elements of the reform program and allocated staff and
budgetary resources commensurate with this assignment, but omitted a clear action plan. The
Secretariat also designed a mechanism to monitor and report to the Cabinet and the public at
large on changes in public sector management and performance.
53.   At the government's request, an instrument for strategic planning was developed with
assistance from the Bank through an IDF grant. The so-called functional review included
redefining the objectives of line ministries, taking into account EU accession objectives and
existing functions and staff employed so that organization and functions could be reviewed
and reoriented in relation to objectives. The review assumed no change in the overall budget
envelope for the ministry and its subordinated and supervised bodies and was followed by
creation of an action plan, agreed with the ministry, to be executed within its budget
envelope. Some positive results have been achieved, but implementation was uneven,
hampered by the inadequate support given to the Bureau of Public Administration Reform,
which has been responsible for coordinating the process both within and among ministries.
As a consequence, the review lacked an upfront memorandum of understanding of what
would be done with the outcome. Another weakness of the functional review was that its
results were not explicitly linked to a public expenditure review of the ministries' programs
or a review of the appropriateness of its policies.
- 16-



54.   Reforms Supported by PSAL I. Reforms under the PSAL II program helped address
the insufficient capacity in the Chancellery and the reorganization of the MoF. The
Chancellery now includes a policy coordination unit, and the MoF has better control over its
instruments for overall fiscal discipline. Coordination of government policy is now clearly a
responsibility of the Chancellery. Consequently, the Secretariat of MoPSR was asked by the
Cabinet to redraft the blueprint for public sector reform. The revised blueprint includes a
clear action plan with deadlines for implementing specific public sector reforms. In addition,
the Secretariat of MoPSR has established a mechanism to monitor and report on the changes
in public sector management and performance. It publishes an annual report partly based on
the Public Annual Reports by Latvia's public entities. On a semi-annual basis, it reports in
the official Gazette progress in the implementation of its reform program.
55.   The functional review instrument has been redesigned. It now includes the
methodology used for sector-oriented public expenditure reviews and a policy evaluation
component. This will improve the process of identifying functions and tasks that contribute
effectively to the priorities of the government. The new functional review methodology was
successfully used to review the organizational structure of the Ministry of Agriculture. An
Action Plan for restructuring the ministry was agreed upon, and adequate resources were
assigned for its implementation. The Secretariat has been given the task of monitoring
implementation. In addition, functional reviews were started at the Ministries of Economy
and the Ministry of Justice during the first PSAL period. An important improvement will be
the completion of the restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture, according to the 2001 Action
Plan. The methodology developed for conducting fundamental reviews will be used for the
preparation of the 2003 budget in selected ministries. To ensure that this instrument will be
effectively used, the government has allocated budgetary resources (equivalent to five staff at the
level of deputy head of a department), instructed the Public Sector Reform Coordination Council
to monitor the implementation of the recommendations of the review, and made the line
ministries undergoing that review incorporate its recommendations in their strategic plans.
Incentives for recruitment and retention of staff
56.   Issues Prior to PSAL I. Several recent studies concluded that Latvia's pay system
depends heavily on bonuses and management contracts. The govemment acknowledged that
this system did not ensure transparency and equitable rewards for equal work. In addition to
the need to improve the public sector pay system as a means to motivate the public sector
workforce, a new civil service law was needed to promote the development of a professional
and loyal civil service cadre. To support these improvements, the Cabinet of Ministers had
already agreed in 1998 on a concept for civil service developments, which has been
transformed with the help of SIMGA/OECD and the World Bank into a new Law on Civil
Service, but it has not been fully implemented.
57.   Performance under PSAL I and Remaining Agenda. The government established an
interministerial working group to design a competitive pay system for the Latvian public
sector. A draft program was prepared and included a unified and broad-banded pay system
that is comprehensive, uniform, and transparent. But the financial implications of the
proposed system and the various options for its implementation remained to be finalized.
58.   Reforms Supported by PSAL II. The Cabinet of Ministers adopted in 2002 a public
sector pay concept that supports the introduction of a broad-banded, transparent, and uniform
- 17 -



pay scale, with performance evaluation mechanisms. Within the framework of preparation
and supervision of PSAL II, the government requested technical assistance from the Bank to
ensure that the proposed new regulations correspond with the concept adopted and will
indeed improve the public sector's ability to retain high-quality staff and motivation their
commitment to a civil service career. To enable analyzing the budgetary consequences of
the proposed new pay system, the Ministry of Finance has developed the methodology for a
survey of the existing pay structure. The new Law on Civil Service was adopted by the
Saeima in 2002. It required the Cabinet of Ministers to issue instructions on how to undertake
performance evaluation of the civil service. The instruction was issued and the first round of
performance evaluations performed in 2002.
Public expenditure management
59.   Issues Prior to PSAL I. Compared to other transition countries, Latvia's public
expenditure management system was considered reasonably well-performing in the area of
fiscal discipline and had significantly improved financial accountability. However, the
government recognized that Latvia lacked a comprehensive strategic planning framework
that would allow the government's overall policy commitments, policy priorities of
individual line ministries, and targets with budget allocations to be linked.
60.   Performance under PSAL I and Remaining Agenda. The government passed Policy
Planning Framework guidelines and amendments to the Law on Budget and Financial
Management (LBFM) to bring all accounts of budget-financed institutions (BFIs) into the
budget and initiated a process in which all BFIs will have their accounts solely with the
Treasury. In addition, the government recognized that there was room for improving its
procurement methods. The Bank carried out a Country Procurement Assessment Review
(CPAR) and discussed its findings with the government in late 2000. The government also
adopted an action plan to tackle the main recommendations from the CPAR, which were also
incorporated into the new law on procurement.
61.   Reforms Supported by PSAL II. Although the first year of the PEM program focused
mostly on comprehensiveness, transparency, and accountability issues, groundwork was
underway to set the stage to improve performance orientation in line ministries, promote.
strategic planning, and foster a medium-term perspective to budget management. As a first
step, and parallel to the functional reviews discussed above, the government undertook public
expenditure reviews (PERs) in the ministries of Agriculture and Justice. These PERs focused
on assessing whether allocations were made according to priorities and expenditure programs
were efficient and effective. It became clear that there was a need to link the PERs directly
with the functional reviews and expand them with a policy review component. The
government also decided to present the budget to the Saeima with a medium-term macro-
fiscal framework and require that those new policies would be "costed-out" for a 3-year
period, accompanied by offsetting measures, to limit the open-endedness of the budget
process.
- 18 -



Component D: Rationalizing the Interactions between the Public and Private Sector
Privatization
62.   Issues Prior to PSAL I. In early 1999, Latvia's remaining privatization programs
(in particular, enterprises in the energy sector and the Latvian Shipping Company) had been
stalled for some time. In addition to railways and post, companies still under public
ownership were larger SOEs, including those for shipping, power, telecommunications, and
the oil pipeline, where the privatization progress had been slower than planned. The delays
were caused by unclear sector policies and sector legislation, lack of a consistent and stable
regulatory framework, and lack of political commitrnent.
63.   Performance under PSAL I and Remaining Agenda. Latvia successfully privatized
most large state owned enterprises. The methods used to hire reputed intemational
investment banks/advisors and their application in the privatization process were significantly
improved and brought in line with best practice. Privatization of state owned enterprises
attracted significant foreign direct investment. The government was unable to proceed with
the privatization of the national electricity utility, Latvenergo, as envisaged under PSAL I.
The case of Latvenergo indeed showed the fragility of support for market-oriented reforms in
some segments of the population. When privatization of Latvenergo was prepared and about
to be launched in mid-2000, non-govemmental organizations with the support of the political
opposition mobilized society for a nationwide public vote that effectively stopped the its
privatization for the time being. Notwithstanding this result, the govemment has taken steps
to restructure Latvenergo following European directives and open up the energy market to
competition. With respect to Lattelekom, Sonera, the strategic investor, took the Ggvernment
of Latvia to arbitration court to resolve the ongoing dispute about compensation for the
shortening of the exclusivity period from 2013 to 2003. This put the privatization on hold
and postponed deliberation in the Saeima of the new telecommunications law that was
submitted as part of the program to be supported by PSAL I.
64.   Reforms Supported by PSAL IL LASCO was privatized in early 2002 by a sale of 32
percent of the company's shares for vouchers and 51 percent of its shares for cash on the
local stock exchange. Of the remaining govermment shares, 6 percent will be sold to
employees and pensioners of the company for privatization vouchers by the end of the year,
10 percent will be transferred without compensation to the State Special Pension Budget, and
1 percent will constitute the privatization reserve. The privatization process of Ventspils
Nafta was slower than anticipated. However, an international investment bank hired by the
government has produced the privatization plan and financial valuation for the company. It
is expected that the company will be brought to the point of sale in 2003. The prospects for
the privatization of Lattelekom are favorable. The authorities have acquired reputed
international advisors to assist them during the arbitration and are committed to proceeding
swiftly with privatizing government shares once the case has been decided upon. With respect to
Latvenergo, the ongoing restructuring will enable efficiency gains from improved competitive
pressures and facilitate the effective privatization later on.
- 19-



Regulatory framework
65.   Issues Prior to PSAL I. Because public utilities figure prominently among the
enterprises remaining to be privatized, regulatory and privatization reforms were closely
interlinked. In the energy sector (electricity, gas), the existing regulation needed to be
enhanced to ensure that rate-setting is based on economic criteria and that increased
competition contributes to lower input costs. In the telecommunications sector, a regulatory
mechanism designed to facilitate the transition to a fully liberalized market was needed. The
main objective of the PSAL program in this area was to ensure that a regulatory framework
was put in place which: (i) mimicked the market as much as possible and allowed
competition to function where it could without distortion (ii) assured competitive service,
quality, and price levels; (iii) desisted from unilaterally imposing changes in policy that
would diminish promised investor value; (iv) weighed the costs of rules against the expected
benefits; and (v) paid efficient and competitively neutral attention to social goals such as
universal service. Moreover, to enhance public accountability and ensure strict adherence to
due process, the prograrm sought to establish fundamental principles that would serve as a
transparent basis for all future regulatory and other policy determinations in the infrastructure
sectors.
66.   Performance under PSAL I and Remaining Agenda. Under the reform program
supported by PSAL I, the government submitted the Law on Public Service Regulators and
the Law on Telecommunications to the Saeima, adopted the concepts for market structures in
electricity and telecommunications sectors, and established an interministerial working
group. The working group developed an action plan to strengthen the regulatory framework
and capacity in each sub-sector sector (energy, telecommunications, and post and railway
services) and to prepare for the anticipated changes when the Saeima adopted the Law on
Public Service Regulators. The Law on Public Service Regulators was adopted in October
2000, and the interministerial working group is indeed preparing the secondary legislation
necessary to make the new regulatory body operational in 2001. The main organizational
outcome of this legislation was that all infrastructural public services were brought under the
auspices of a single regulatory authority, the Public Utilities Commission. Discussion of the
telecommunications law in the Saeima has been postponed due to the ongoing litigation with
Lattelekom's strategic investor.
67.   Reforms Supported by PSAL II. The Public Utilities Commission (PUC), the new
regulatory agency for infrastructure, became operational on October 1, 2001. The agency has
been given an appropriate start-up budget and has made significant progress in establishing
its organizational structure.  Professional staffs with the needed expertise in relevanl
economic and legal principles have been recruited. The PUC has also published "Strategy
and Basic Principles for Operation of PUC," adopted a price cap principle for tariff setting,
and been working to establish its "charter" in order to specify and publicly articulate the
principles that will serve as a transparent basis for its future regulatory and other policy
determinations. The PUC has been working to establish rules that ensure fair treatment foi
consumers who lack competitive alternatives as well as nondiscriminatory access ol
competitors to bottleneck infrastructure facilities. In collaboration with the World Bank, the
agency organized a training workshop for its staff in June 2002, where experts from federal
regulatory agencies of the United States made presentations on important issues of regulator)
due process, ethics, and the economics of regulation.
- 20 -



Financial sector regulation
68.   Issues Prior to PSAL I. The Latvian financial system suffered from the 1995 banking
crisis and the 1998 Russian crisis. A number of banks were substantially weakened, and two
had their licenses suspended. Rigas Komersbanka, one of Latvia's largest banks, was
rendered insolvent by substantial losses in Russian GKOs (the Bank was subsequently
rehabilitated by its shareholders, by conversion of deposits into equity, and by an injection of
cash from the Bank of Latvia). The objective of the reform program in this area was to
achieve a uniform and integrated approach to supervision of financial and capital markets.
69.   Performance under PSAL I and Remaining Agenda. The government made good
progress in strengthening its banking supervision and agreed that the previous regulatory
structure might not fully accommodate the growth of non-bank financial institutions in the
country. At the same time, the authorities took steps to introduce a new law establishing an
integrated financial regulatory body, which was drafted and adopted with support from PSAL
I. For the agency to be successful, it needed to strengthen its capacity to supervise non-bank
financial institutions and ensure that that the new agency is independent and that its
formation does not undermine the credibility of its current banking supervision.
70.   Reforms Supported by PSAL II. An action plan for strengthening supervision of non-
bank financial institutions like pension funds, investment companies, leasing companies, and
the securities market was prepared, leading to the creation of a unified agency, the Financial
and Capital Market Commission (FCMC). A chairman and co-chairman have been appointed
and confirmed by Parliament. The new body was assigned adequate resources and became
operational in July 2001. The FCMC has made substantial progress in implementing the
recommendations set forth in the 2001 joint World Bank/IMF Financial Sector Assessment
Program (FSAP) and is already scrutinizing banks' credit policies and risk strategies.
Business regulation
71.   Issues Prior to PSAL I. Latvia's regulatory system had many of the formal
mechanisms necessary for building an effective and transparent regulatory framework that
can interact efficiently with Latvia's business community. However, evaluating regulatory
proposals remained difficult, especially in terms of consistency with existing laws and
regulations as well as their budgetary impacts.
72.   Performance under PSAL I and Remaining Agenda. To streamline the regulatory
process, the Ministry of Justice completed a manual for drafting laws and regulations based
on good legislative techniques. The Ministry of Finance also prepared a draft manual for
assessing the budgetary consequences of the proposed draft laws and regulations, and created
a uniform definition and procedure of "normative acts" ensuring that all these acts are
adequately reviewed by the Ministry of Justice prior to adoption by the Cabinet of Ministers.
To make this an effective mechanism, the School of Public Administration developed a
training program for staff on how to undertake impact analysis. To improve the functioning
of state bodies that enforce regulations, such as inspectorates, the government took action to
strengthen their capabilities to monitor their actions and improve the accountability of the
state bodies that enforce regulation. The Cabinet also adopted new rules and procedures for
inspections. In addition, a workshop on inspection reform was conducted to gather feedback
- 21 -



on the proposed reforms. Selected inspectorates agreed to pilot the new rules and procedures,
and a training module for inspectorates on these issues was prepared.
73.   Reforms Supported by PSAL II. PSAL II measures have assisted the government with
drafting new procedures for collecting fines, with initiating implementation of the new
inspection guidelines in the remaining inspectorates, and with designing the annual reporting
requirements of inspectorates. Furthermore, the inspectorates have discussed these new
reporting requirements and have implemented them in at least 50 percent of the inspectorates.
The government has also completed-an Action Plan to Improve the Business Environment
and implemented 68 of its 77 suggested measures.
- 22 -



Table 2: Achievements on Triggers for Moving to PSAL II
j'5sit rUd dioo faisiR101infiRS 9 0IBiSWd`,2-1eN -N  l-~%14laren etStatuiss  gE's;:          i->4'af'e s-|tXSJbt
IFeiic                                                                      1.  TiA d4.T~1.4'p,j C*-~.~Ft. 
Maintain an appropriate macroeconomic       The Borrower has maintained an appropriate  Tri2aer fulfilled. The IMF has recently reached
framework.                                  macroeconomic policy framework, consistent with  agreement with the Latvian authorities on the
the objective of the Program, as determined on the  macroeconomic framework. Its Executive Board
basis of indicators agreed to by the Borrower and  has completed the first and second reviews of
the Bank.                                   Latvia's economic performance under the stand-by
arrangement.
Implement pension system reforms, including: (a)  The Saeima has adopted amendments to the Law  Trieeer nartiallv fulfilled. The main issue for
removing all prohibitions to working and taking a  on State Pensions, removing prohibitions to  financial sustainability is that indexation gets
pension; (b) improving the equity of system, (c)  working and taking a pension, improving the  regulated by law and that early retirement gets
curbing early retirement, (d) regulating future  equity of the system, curbing early retirement, and  curbed within the PSAL time frame. The
indexation, and (e) reducing regressive social tax  regulating future indexation.      amendments to the Law on Pensions submitted to
exernptions.                                                                           Parliament included the immediate curbing of
early retirement. However, the decision of the
SAEIMA was to set the date for the removal of
early retirement on July 1, 2005. Given the
complexity of the policy measures implied by the
reform, the start date of 2005 for curbing early
retirement appears reasonable. The other measures
are more focused on fairness and improving the
functioning of the labor market. Comnponent (e) of
the original benchmnark was focused on trying to
tackle the insurance lobby that had been able to get
exemption from payroll taxes. However, during
PSAL II preparation, it was agreed that this was
not core to the proper functioning of the pension
system and as such was dropped.
- 23 -



UBbard' .2~.4 ~"-  '~'Currenit Status  V.~~i~j                  C. ommef "4     ji F..
'.jA ',jj'cti ns   ie         ,tlB         ' :'; 2';t     C r e;         ;;' '             ,    ;                            '    |
An additional action identified by Government  The Saeima has adopted the "Law on the  This action was added during appraisal to support
Corruption Prevention Bureau," establishing a  the creation of a bureau that would merge the
corruption prevention bureau (CPB) with the  different prevention activities, conflict of interest
authority to: (a) detect and resolve ex ante cases of  activities, and detection and evaluation of cases of
conflict of interest; (b) detect and evaluate possible  possible illicit enrichment into one agency.
cases of conflict of illicit enrichment; (c) monitor
corruption and corruption prevention in public
sector bodies; (d) advise the Cabinet of Ministers,
individual ministers, and other heads of public
sector bodies, on methods to strengthen corruption
prevention; (e) prepare and evaluate legislation
related to corruption prevention; and (f) educate
officials and the public about corruption
prevention.
CPC to publish, on an annual basis, changes in  The CPC Secretariat has published changes to and  Trienier fulfilled. The CPC publishes Corruption
corruption in the public sector; such publication is  progress in the impleimentation of the Corruption  Prevention Plan implementation results on annual
institutionalized.                          Prevention Plan                            basis.
The Cabinet of Ministers has submitted to the  Law on "Political Party Financing" has been
Saeima the Law on Political Parties, with adequate  adopted, which stipulates: (i) more precise
provisions for transparency, oversight, and audit.  disclosure procedures to report on election
campaign expenditures and (ii) assignment of
monitoring political party finances to independent
body.
The Saeirna adopts a new Criminal Procedures  CoM has adopted concept of a new criminal  Tri2eer not fulfilled. The govermment has
Code                                        procedure code, which provides for streamlined  incorporated this action in its Letter of
procedures that promote efficiency and reduce the  Development Policy.
.__________________________.____________ opportunities for corruption.
-24 -



K   -_:M -WI  s as  Ff.iP3L iBG rfeiithk, ,ifi,i
%AfflrNeWe     __C 1:J IEiimW firti
-        D~~~oru m e n 0tion'                              11"M Fi O
Cabinet of Ministers agrees on an action plan to  The Cabinet of Ministers has adopted a regulation  Trieeer fulfilled. The government has exceeded
bring all public sector organizations into  identifying: (a) criteria for the role and  the initial expectations regarding this and has
conforrnity with the laws on the Institutional  responsibilities of each public agency, (b) the  identified additional actions to be undertaken.
Framework for Public Administration and on  mechanism through which a public agency can be
Public Sector Agencies.                     created, and (c) criteria on which to decide which
agencies to divest.
The Law "On the Framework of Public
Administration" has been adopted by the
Parliament.
The "Law on Public Sector Agencies" has been
adopted by the Saiema.
Action plan is adopted which: (i) establishes  The Ministry of Justice of the Government of the  Tri2eer fulfilled. Points (i-iii) have been assigned
capacity in public-sector bodies to respond to  Borrower has assigned the task to provide  to the data inspection unit. During preparation of
public requests for information, (ii) reports on  guidance and coordinate the implementation of the  PSAL nI consultancy report on this issue
compliance with the law, and (iii) educates public  Petitions Act and the Law on Openness of  concluded that it was more important to build up
on procedures for obtaining government      Information to the data inspection unit.   capacity at the center first before building up the
documents.                                                                             capacity at the line ministries and other public
bodies. The expected action was appropriately
refocused to deal with this advice.
The Borrower has adopted Administrative     The Borrower has adopted a time-bound plan for  Trinuer fulfilled. The government has obtained an
Procedure Law and CoM has prepared action plan  the implementation of the Administrative  IDF grant to help with the implementation of this
for the implementation of APL based on survey of  Procedure Law and identified one staff member in  law.
needs of the ministries and other administrative  each ministry who has been assigned the
bodies.                                     responsibility for implementing this law is that
ministry.
An additional action was identified by      The CoM has adopted an updated and revised  PSAL I (see C. 1. Page 7) supported the blueprint
government. To be seen as a continuation of the  Medium-Term Public Sector Reform Prograrn,  of this Public Sector Reform Strategy. In July
benchmark supported under PSAL I on the     which includes clear assignment of responsibilities  2000, the new PM strengthened his Chancellery
blueprint of the Public Sector Reform Strategy  and deadlines for the implementation of specific  office such that it would be better positioned to
public sector reforms.                      coordinate policy initiatives, to give guidance with
regard to strategic planning, and to take a more
active role in public sector reforms.
-25 -



,Ad'sr &dt6ii -                   1 Board    "n'          -urre66'96 dt      '      :X *;  4  i
!~ ~Docwnentaion                                                                                       14~~ .-~~~~;:~*Jl;~  L~ 
As the reform strategy had been clearly enriched
and contains a well specified time-bound action
plan, government and the Bank agreed on actions
which would allow continuation of our dialogue
on the instruments for public sector reform (i.e.,
fundamental reviews and sector oriented PERs)
and integration in the PSR implementation plan.
An additional action was identified by      The Borrower has designed and piloted a    This is a strengthening of the so-called "functional
government. This is an expansion of the     methodology for conducting fundamental reviews  review" instrument that government began to
benchmark supported under PSAL I on functional  which are to be used to support the 2003 budget  institute already prior to PSAL I. As supporters of
reviews                                     preparation in selected ministries and shall, among  the reviews could point to tangible results from the
other things, include: (a) a methodology to review  reviews, GoL has decided to expand the scope of
and identify priority policies and programs and (b) the review instrument as well as to add an explicit
a memorandum of understanding between the  memorandum of understanding to the instrument
central agencies and the line ministries to be  which was absent from the functional review
reviewed regarding what will be done with the  instrument; previously there had only been an
results of the review                      implicit enforcement mechanism of what to do
with the outcome of the functional reviews.
Therefore, the government's expansion of the
instrument, piloting of it, and inclusion of an
explicit upfront agreement of what to with the
results of the review has strengthened the reform
program supported by PSAL II.
Same as above                               The Borrower has allocated resources to support  This is also a strengthening of the so-called
the fundamental reviews and to train at least three  "functional review" instrument.
government staff in the fundamental review
methodology.
Cabinet of Ministers adopts regulations on the pay  The Borrower through its Ministry of Finance has  Trigger partially fulfilled. The government has
system in entire public sector, with a schedule for  prepared a draft regulation on pay reform and  not fully taken the initially agreed action. While
the gradual introduction of the new pay scale  estimates of its cost of implementation; and the  the Cabinet of Ministers (CoM) adopted a
timetable.                                  Cabinet of Ministers has: (a) reviewed the draft  regulation (May 14, 2002) on the new pay system
and cost estimates, (b) accepted the draft in  in principle, it does not yet include a schedule for
principle, and (c) adopted a schedule requiring the  the gradual implementation of the new pay scale.
Ministry of Finance to provide the Cabinet of  Further, certain technical problems remain in the
- 26 -



Ministers detailed options for the gradual phasing  draft design of the new system, including: (i) the
in of the pay reform.                       use of too rnany grades, resulting in the wide
dispersion of grades across positions; (ii) grade
inflation in some ministries, caused by the absence
of any mechanism to ensure that job evaluations
were comparable across ministries; and (iii) the
under valuation of some occupations, caused by
the use of identical criteria and weights across all
occupations. The Bank shared these views with the
government which will examnine this design from a
practical perspective and identify a tireline for
resolving these problems and which will enable
the Ministry of Finance to propose options for a
detailed plan for the gradual phasing in of the new
pay system by the date indicated in the Cabinet
under_varegulation, which is October 8, 2002.
An additional action was identified by      The Cabinet of Ministers has issued its first annual  This additional action by government clearly links
government,                                 budget priority statement, including: (a) an overall  up with the efforts at the center of Government to
fiscal strategy; (b) budget priorities, and (c) criteria link policies and resources and to ensure that
for annual budget priority setting to be used  resource allocations across line ministries reflect
starting with the budget for 2003.          Government priorities. It sets the framework for
priority settin inacluding guidelines and for
building up institutional capacity within the line
ministries to undertake a  more comprehensive
approach to strategic planning. This is a
strengthening of the reform program supported by
the PSAL operation.
- 27 -



L   Wi  ogrn dA'A'&i6ii  I-p6!fi                                   " 
National means-tested social assistance benefit is  The Saeima has completed its first reading of the  Trigger partiallv fulfilled. In the Fall of 2001, the
implemented and monitoring system is in place.  new Law On Social services and Social     Ministry of Welfare submitted to the Saeima for
Assistance, which provides for the nationwide  the 3r4 reading amendments to the Social
implementation of national means-tested social  Assistance Law for nationwide implementation of
assistance benefit and improves the organization  national means-tested social assistance benefit
and administration of the social assistance system.  foreseeing that the guaranteed minimum income
benefit will be paid only in cash. This change was
not accepted by the parliamentary commission and
the amendments were returned to the Cabinet of
Ministers. Since then, the government decided to
change the strategy in preparing a legislative basis
for improved social assistance system in Latvia.
With the help of foreign technical assistance, the
Ministry of Welfare has developed a new Law on
Social Services and Social Benefits, which
foresees the nationwide implementation of
national means-tested social assistance benefit
(GMI) and imnproves the organization and
administration of social assistance services and
benefits. The draft law provides for both cash and
in-kind payment of the national means-tested
social assistance benefit, and the government has
informed the Bank that the Cabinet of Ministers'
regulation will determine the exact method of GMI
payment.
Implementation of the action plan for        Subsidiary legislation needed for the Public  Trieeer fulfilled. The subsidiary legislation is in
strengthening of regulatory capacity and transfer in  Utilities Commission to operate has been approved  place, and transfer of the regulatory responsibility
2001 of all sectoral regulatory responsibilities to  by the Cabinet of Ministers.         to the PUC took place as scheduled on October Is",
the Public Services Regulatory Council (Public                                            2001.
Utilities Commission)
Issuance by the Public Services Regulatory   The Borrower through the Public Utilities    Triaaer fulfilled. The PUC adopted and
Council of a set of principles to serve as a  Commission Board has adopted the Strategy of the  published the strategy paper in January 2002.
transparent basis for its policy analysis and  Public Utilities Commission ("Strategy and Basic
determinations.                              Principles," and published it in the official
Develop and announce the Council's medium-term  newspaper Latvyas Vestnesis and the website
- 28 -



AgreedeActioA --1ditdi:: g&                          C     t                                      CommeSts
regulatory agenda.                          www.sMrk.gov.1v
International investment banks/advisors (and other  The Borrower has hired experts to prepare and  Trieeer fulfilled. LPA has hired appropriate
appropriate specialists, e.g., lawyers) hired, if  carry out the privatization of Ventspils Nafta (VN)  advisors/investment banks to help with the
necessary, to sell all, or most, of the state's  and Latvia Shipping (LS).             privatization efforts with VN and LS. Note that
shareholding in Lattelekorn, Latvenergo, Latvijas                                      Latvenergo was put on the list of companies not to
Gaze, Latvian Shipping, and Ventspils Nafta.                                           be privatized; for Lattelekom the government hired
a legal firm to advise and assist the Governnent
with the arbitration case. With respect to Latvijas
Gaze, its sale through the local stock market took
place without the need to bring additional experts.
Sales to be cornpleted before March 2001.   The Borrower has: (i) adopted a time-bound action  Trigger Dartially fulfilled. Partial fulfillment of
plan on how to proceed with the sale of its  this has been reflected in the reduction of the loan
remaining shareholdings, except for two, in  amount of the PSAL II from US$40 mnillion to
Latvijas Gaze; (ii) adopted a new time-bound  US$20 million. The divestiture of government
action plan for the sale of Latvia Shipping; and  remaining interest in Latvija Gaze has been
(iii) submitted the first regular report and  completed. Latvian Shipping has been sold
evaluation by the international investment bank for  through an offering of 32 percent of its shares for
Ventspils Nafta to the Bank for review.     vouchers and 51 percent of its shares for cash on
the Riga Stock Exchange at a price approved by
the Board of the Latvian Privatization Agency.
The balance of the shares (17 percent) will go to
employees, the State Pension Fund and the
privatization reserve. In the case of Ventspils
Nafta, a privatization plan has not been prepared
and the requirement of preparing for privatization
and offering the government's shares in the
company for sale has been moved to PSAL III
benchmarks.
Harmonize the energy law consistent with the  The Cabinet of Ministers has approved a detailed  Trizzer fulfilled. The government has adopted
chosen market model, the regulatory framework,  restructuring program for Latvenergo which meets  EU Directive 96/92/EC concerning common rules
and EU and Baltic integration.             the EU Directive 96/92/EC concerning common  for the internal market in electricity in designing
rules for the internal market in electricity.  its electricity market and is taking steps to further
liberalize the market.
The Borrower has established the Transrnission  Triager partially fulfilled. Latvenergo has
System Operator as a separate legal entity with its  separated the Transmission System Operator
- 29 -



F.ALgid Acion s as seclfi  in PSgALIBard                  4, Ii 'C ;
own management, staff, and separate accounts.  (TSO) as a separate joint stock company under the
Latvenergo holding company. The TSO has
separate Board, management, staff, and accounts.
Under the current Energy Law, the govermnent
proposes that the assets be leased from
Latvenergo. However, the proposed market model
and changes in energy legislation would provide
for transmission, as well as generation and
distribution, to be established as separate legal
entities with their own assets. The government
agreed to share the draft leasing agreement
between the TSO and Latvenergo with the Bank
for its review and comments. The govermnent has
agreed to publish system prices as per Chapter 3 of
the Grid Code as evidence of independence of the
TSO.
MoJ evaluates draft laws and regulations based on  The Cabinet of Ministers has approved the  Trigger fulfilled. The revised policy action
its standards described in its drafting mnanual.  methodology for legal and regulatory impact  reflects a key additional step, towards meeting the
analysis                                     PSAL Ill core indicator, namely that all line
ministries implement adequate regulatory impact
assessment procedures.
The Cabinet of Ministers has approved a concept  This policy measure was added to reflect our
with a time-bound action plan of gas market  concern with gas pricing mechanism used in
liberalization in line with EU Gas Directive 98/30,  Latvia, an issue that became apparent after PSAL I
dealing, in particular, with third party access and  was approved by the Board. Therefore, this
elaborating on gas pricing methodologies that deal  measure is a first step in the process of coming to a
with separation of storage, transmission,    change in the methodology of pricing as well as
distribution, and sales costs and tariffs.   well as allowing for more competition.
-30 -



IV. THE WORLD BANK STRATEGY
Country Assistance Strategy
74.   In April 2002, the Board discussed the new Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Latvia (23610-LV). The Latvian authorities have requested the World Bank Group to take a
lead role in key areas not explicitly covered by the EU acquis communautaire. Accordingly,
the CAS, for the next 3 years focuses on assisting all segments of the population to benefit
from Latvia's admirable economic growth performance by helping to:
(a)   Create a policy environment that encourages new enterprise entry and job creation;
(b)   Support crucial public sector reforms to make government more efficient;
(c)   Achieve more balanced and sustainable development outside Riga, thus promoting
poverty reduction in those areas; and
(d)   Make available more effective and better quality social sector programs and services
throughout the country.
75.   Focus in these areas accords with the selective approach set out in the Frameworkfor
World Bank Group Support to EU Accession Countries of Central and Eastern Europe8, and
the comparative advantage of other external agencies and of the World Bank in Latvia. The
CAS is predicated on the assumption that Latvia in the not-too-distant future will become a
member of the EU. While an operational relationship with the World Bank Group need not
come to an end upon accession, it is possible that, as Latvia moves closer to its goal of entry
into the EU and as financing from the EU and other institutions becomes more available, the
country may voluntarily limit its future borrowing and technical assistance requests.
76.   Since FY91, the Bank has financed 17 operations, committing US$393 million, of
which US$28.6 million are undisbursed. These included projects in education, health,
municipal infrastructure and services, agriculture finance and rural development, district
heating, solid waste management, tax systems strengthening, and structural adjustment. Over
the past 5 years, the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) has completed six evaluations
of projects in Latvia, all of which received satisfactory ratings. These reviews noted
substantial institutional development and capacity building impacts of Bank-financed
programs. Lessons learned include: (i) government commitment was essential; (ii)
government strategy and intersectoral expenditure allocations needed greater consistency;
(iii) forecasts for demand for municipal infrastructure projects have been too optimistic;
(iv) it is necessary to raise institutional and regulatory capacity at the municipal level, in
particular, the ability to handle corporatization and privatization; (v) the Bank should be
careful to focus on areas not financed from other sources; and (vi) project-related legal,
regulatory, and institutional issues should be better resolved before approval stages. While
crediting the first Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan (PSAL) with strengthening
public sector capabilities and credibility and rationalizing the public/private relationship-
hence rating it satisfactory-OED suggested that it was ambitious; that actions were too
front-loaded; and that these lessons should be incorporated into the later tranches of the
PSAL program.
8 SecM2001-0564, October 10, 2001.
- 31 -



77.   The assistance strategy described in the 2002 CAS reflects a declining demand by
Latvia for Bank lending and an increased demand for the Bank's analytic and advisory
assistance. Specifically, over FY02-FY05, lending of US$110-120 million would be for
public sector management and govemance strengthening, health, education, and housing (see
Figure 1). Economic and sector work (ESW) is planned, among other things, in the areas of
labor market reforms and a Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) on prospects for growth
and evaluating public sector reforms implemented to date and on the Knowledge Economy
(KE). International Finance Corporation (IFC) activities are expected to continue the focus
on accelerating growth and job creation.
Coordination with the IMF and Other Donors
78.   The achievement of the reform objectives supported by the PSAL program will be
strengthened by the Bank's close collaborations with the IMF and EU in particular. The
government's overall reform program has been designed to take place within a framework for
macroeconomic stability consistent with the government's Stand-By Arrangement (SBA)
with the IMF. On April 20, 2001, the IMF Board approved a 20-month SBA in the amount of
SDR 33 million. Because of disagreements between the Fund and the government about the
size of the projected 2002 fiscal deficit, a mission during October-November 2001 did not
complete discussions for the first review. However, in concluding the stand-alone 2001
Article IV Consultation on January 18, 2002, the IMF Board noted that the Latvian
authorities had successfully implemented their 2001 economic program and that economic
performance had been among the best of the EU accession countries. Strong budget
implementation during the first half of 2002, including with respect to the indicative targets
for the first two quarters, has put Latvia in a position to hold the 2002 fiscal deficit to 1.8
percent of GDP. The measures supported by the PSAL and SBA are mutually reinforcing,
with the IMF program focusing primarily on fiscal outcomes and the Bank's program
supporting improvements to public sector management structures and processes.
79.   EU institutions are increasing their support to Latvia. During the period 1992-1999,
the EU allocated about 248 million through the EU PHARE program to address issues
including anticorruption, judiciary reform, public administration reform, and public
expenditure management. The Bank closely coordinates with the EU on the ongoing PSAL
program to ensure that the reforms supported by the PSAL are consistent with and
complement the necessary reforms to implement the acquis communautaire.
80.   EU pre-accession aid for 2000-2006 will consist of aid from EU PHARE and will
also include investment support and technical assistance for agricultural and rural
development through the Special Assistance Program for Agricultural and Rural
Development (SAPARD) and for the environment and transport sectors through the pre-
structural instrument ISPA. During 2000-2002, total EU financial assistance will amount to
90 million for EU PHARE, 66.6 million for SAPARD, and between 109.2 and 171.6 for
ISPA. Multilateral banks including EIB, the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, the NIB, and the Nordic Environment Finance Corporation provide
cofinancing for the EU pre-structural instruments. Several bilateral donors are also very
active in Latvia. The Bank team is in regular contact with those donors that, in a number of
cases, have provided cofinancing and other support for Bank-financed projects. The Bank
- 32 -



has also organized donor coordination meetings, for example, in the context of PSAL
preparation.
- 33 -



Fiure 1: LATVIA'S PSAL PROGRAM AND ITS ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS
Main Anah        Povesty Asssment                  Studies on PublicSto  eom            PbiEsndtrReewc                                   Mad       s
MaloAsoLwknl    Report ma Fiscal Clcantamlio       and Csyacity Buildia                Repas ott KnomledeRssm           Conr Pcoolic.ins AM     a
g.7tU                nSivtudy on Reguu tory Dcl en       ttc    Seto" Aesnt                  La(* abr Martkt Stu              Regi*nac  toltty,tst And Cap
000 2tOBaidge:                  20ItlOI Badge:                    2002 lf2B2dgt                   /2003 Budge:
fBdket CYk                  I
Mrch 2000                                       Dec. 2001       Apr. 2002  Aug. 2002                           Aug. 2003
CAS and Governnwent                                                      1       1 l
Dcelopmeni A     iendalment
Prooosed IBRD 
|  Macweoconoti                                                          Macrocc     c                      Macroecnomic
Key Porkc an           Stability                                                               Stbtility                          Stability
Blwnhtidosial Rftt   * Public Sector Rcform                                                   Public Sector Reform               Public Sector Reform
* Instituional Capacity                                                 *Intitutional Capaity              *   tInstitutinal Capacity
* Interactirn between                                                   * Intclmctiu bctwecn               * Intcrtactin betwcre
the public and priatac                                                  thc public and printe              the public and private
secton                                                                  secto                              sectors
- 34-



V.    THE PROPOSED LOAN (PSAL II)
Objectives and Design
81.   Rationale and Objecffves. The PSAL series was designed to help the Latvian
economy return to sustained and rapid growth and achieve poverty reduction through reforms
that enhance government efficiency and effectiveness. It supports the implementation of
Latvia's NDP in the following areas: (i) macroeconomic stability, (ii) public sector
management, (iii) human resources management, and (iv) privatization and regulation of
public utilities and private business.
82.   Sequencing. The first single-tranche PSAL for Latvia (PSAL I) established a rolling
medium-term policy framework setting out a 3-year reform program aimed at implementing
the medium-term development agenda, with specific progress benchmarks and outcome
indicators defined and agreed with the authorities. The rolling nature of the policy framework
allows for flexibility in the design of an adequate policy mix, depending on country
circumstances. The PSAL II program builds on the outcomes of PSAL I, as shown in the
policy matrix discussed with the authorities [Annex 5]. It updates the program's details based
on experience and developments over the past 2 years. To ensure consistency in the medium-
term reform program, indicative prior actions for PSAL III have been formulated and agreed
to with the government, drawing on the progress benchmarks and specific triggers laid out
during negotiation of PSAL I and II. PSAL III will also depend on satisfactory overall
progress against the agreed social and structural benchmarks and CAS triggers and a
continuing satisfactory macroeconomic framework.
83.   Links with the CAS. The overall PSAL program has been designed to help the
government address its policy objectives as stated in the CAS. Like each of the three loans
envisaged under the PSAL program, the proposed PSAL II would provide financial resources
and knowledge transfers to support Latvia's reform agenda as described in the CAS. The
Bank has a large investment portfolio in the areas of subnational government operations and
social service delivery.  The PSAL II operation therefore focuses more on fiscal
sustainability, accountability, and transparency; efficiency and effectiveness of service
delivery by the public sector; and an appropriate framework for interaction between the
private and public sector. The PSAL approach is particularly helpful in regard to the
institutional changes needed in these areas.
84.   Analytical Underpinnings. In preparing PSALs, the Bank tearn has been able to
draw upon an increasing body of analytical work prepared over the past 3 years, of which
the great bulk has been prepared collaboratively between IBRD and the government. In
FYOO-02, the non-lending activities included, among other things, a poverty assessment,
a report on fiscal decentralization, a public expenditure review, a country procurement
assessment review, and a financial sector assessment. In FY03-04, analytical work
supported by the Bank will include a Labor Market Study and assistance to a
government-led effort on the knowledge economy. These advisory activities provide a
good understanding of Latvia's development problems, the analytical framework for
designing and evaluating macroeconomic and sectoral strategies, the need for and
availability of external financing, and the strengths and weaknesses of its fiduciary
systems. They help harmonize IBRD, IMF, EU, government, and other donors'
- 35 -



perspectives, and generate public discussion of the country's development options with
the aim of creating public support for the ambitious reform agenda ahead.
85.   Poverty and Social Impact Analysis. If implemented in full, the policies envisaged
under the current PSAL series are unambiguously pro-poor. The proposed PSAL will have an
important effect on poverty, because it will support overall growth objectives as well as
measures to improve service delivery by the government, e.g., social assistance payments,
and reform of the social insurance framework. By contributing to fiscal sustainability and
low inflation, the PSAL program will prevent further erosion in the real living standards of
the poor. The objectives of improving public administration and management of resources
will enable improvements in the cost-effectiveness of government social programs that are
especially important for the poor. It will also support implementation of a national means-
tested social assistance program.
Specific Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
86.   The detailed medium-term reform program associated with this loan is outlined
below and set out in the Letter of Development Policy and the multiyear matrix of policy and
institutional reforms. Specific actions of the PSAL program, the triggers, and the
performance benchmarks draw from and elaborate on the NDP. The stage for this operation
has been set by a number of important decisions already taken and fully implemented prior to
Board presentation to demonstrate the government's commitment to moving forward with its
medium-term development agenda. These decisions affect actions in the four components of
the reform program supported by the PSAL:
Returning to a macroeconomicframework conducive to robust growth
*  The Borrower has maintained an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework,
consistent with the objective of the Program, as determined on the basis of indicators
agreed to by the Borrower and the Bank;
*  The Saeima has adopted amendments to the Law on State Pensions, removing all
prohibitions to working and taking a pension, improving the equity of the pension
system, curbing early retirement, and regulating future indexation.
Strengthening the credibility of the public sector
* The Saeima has adopted the Law on the Corruption Prevention Bureau, with the authority
to: (a) detect and resolve ex ante cases of conflict of interest, (b) detect and evaluate
possible cases of illicit enrichment, (c) monitor corruption and corruption prevention in
public sector bodies, (d) advise the Cabinet of Ministers, individual ministers, and other
heads of public sector bodies on methods to strengthen corruption prevention, (e) prepare
and evaluate legislation related to corruption prevention, and (f) educate officials and the
public about corruption prevention.
9 See The Republic of Latvia: Poverty Assessment, 2 volumes, Report no. 20707-LV, World Bank, 2000.
- 36 -



*  The CPC Secretariat has published changes to and progress in the implementation of the
Corruption Prevention Plan.
*  The Saeima has adopted the Law on the Framework of Public Administration.
*  The Saeima has adopted the Law on Public Sector Agencies.
*  The Borrower, through its Cabinet of Ministers, has adopted a regulation identifying: (a)
criteria for the role and responsibilities of each public agency, (b) the mechanism through
which a public agency can be created, and (c) criteria with which to decide what agencies
to divest.
*  The Borrower, through its Ministry of Justice, has assigned the task to provide guidance
and coordinate the implementation of the Petitions Act and the Law on Openness of
Infornation to the data inspection unit of the Ministry of Justice.
*  The Borrower, through its Ministry of Justice, has adopted a time-bound action plan for
implementing the Administrative Procedure Law and identified one staff member within
each ministry who has been assigned the responsibility to secure implementation of this
law in his or her ministry.
Strengthening the public sector's institutional capacity
*  The Borrower, through its Cabinet of Ministers, has adopted a time-bound action plan for
the implementation of the Medium-Term Public Sector Reform Program in all line
ministries.
*  The Borrower, through its MoPSR, has designed and piloted a methodology for
conducting fundamental reviews that are to be used to support the 2003 budget
preparation in selected ministries and shall, among other things, include: (i) a
methodology to review and identify priority policies and programs and (ii) a
memorandum of understanding between the central agencies and line ministries regarding
what will be done with the results of the review.
*  The Borrower, through its Ministry of Public Sector and Regional Reform, has allocated
resources to support the fundamental reviews and train at least three government staff in
the fundamental review methodology.
*  The Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance (MoF), has prepared a draft regulation on
pay reform and estimates of the cost of its implementation, and the Cabinet of Ministers
(CoM) has (a) reviewed the draft and cost estimates, (b) accepted the draft in principle,
and (c) adopted a schedule requiring the MoF to provide the CoM by October 8, 2002,
detailed options for phasing in the pay reform.
*  The Borrower, through its Cabinet of Ministers, has issued its first annual budget priority
statement, including: (a) an overall fiscal strategy, (b) budget priorities, and (c) criteria
for annual budget priority-setting to be used starting with the budget for 2003.
- 37 -



* The Saeima has completed its first reading of the new law on social services and social
assistance, which provides for the nationwide implementation of national means-tested
social assistance benefits and improves the organization and administration of the social
assistance system.
Rationalizing the interactions between the public andprivate sector
*  Subsidiary legislation, needed for the Public Utilities Commission to operate, has been
approved by the Cabinet of Ministers.
*  The Borrower, through the Public Utilities Commission Board, has adopted the strategy
for the Public Utilities Commission ("Strategy and Basic Principles") and published it in
the official newspaper Latvijas Vestnesis and the website, http://www.sprk.gov.lv/.
*  The Borrower has, in the case of the privatization of LASCO, (i) made a public offering
of 32 percent of the shares for privatization vouchers, (ii) sold 51 percent of the shares to
strategic and financial investors for cash through the Riga Stock Exchange at a price
approved by the Board of the Latvian Privatization Agency, and (iii) agreed that the
balance of the shares will go to employees and the State Pension Fund by December 31,
2002.
* The Borrower has submitted the first regular report and evaluation by the international
investment bank for Ventspils Nafta to the Bank for review.
*  The Borrower, through its Cabinet of Ministers, has approved a detailed restructuring
program for Latvenergo that meets the unbundling and market-opening requirements of
the European Union Directive No. 96/92/EC concerning common rules for the internal
market in electricity.
*  The Borrower, through its Ministry of Economy, has prepared an electricity market
model that meets EU directives on market liberalization for its consideration.
*  The Borrower has established the transmission system operator as a separate legal entity
with its own management, staff, and separate accounts.
*  The Borrower, through its Cabinet of Ministers, has approved a concept with a time-
bound action plan of gas market liberalization in line with European Union Gas Directive
No. 98/30, dealing, in particular, with third party access, and elaborating on gas pricing
methodologies that deal with separation of storage, transmission, distribution, and sales
costs and tariffs.
* The Borrower, through its Cabinet of Ministers, has approved a methodology for legal
and regulatory impact analysis.
- 38 -



Progress Benchmarks and Triggers for Considering PSAL III
87.   PSAL III will be predicated on satisfactory performance under PSAL II and
fulfillment of a predominant part of the triggers agreed for a next operation. If progress is
found to lag behind expectations, a judgment will be made on whether to adapt the medium-
term program, to reduce the amount of the next loan, or to delay it until further progress has
been made. The reform program to support Latvia's continued implementation of its NDP
under PSAL III will draw from the findings of analytical work on growth, competitiveness,
and labor market issues (Country Economic Memorandum), as well as continuing work on
public sector reform and other key sectoral issues. In addition to satisfactory macroeconomic
policies and overall program implementation, PSAL III will depend on substantial progress
in strengthening public sector governance and the assumption that sector policies and
institutions will focus increasingly on poverty reduction. The precise actions for PSAL III
will be formulated and agreed at the time of negotiations, drawing on the medium-term
program set out in the Letter of Development Policy. At this time, it is envisaged that critical
policy and institutional reform measures as a basis for PSAL III will depend on satisfactory
progress in meeting the following triggers:
Macroeconomic framework
Maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic framework.
Transparency and accountability in public sector management
Anticorruption. Satisfactory progress on the implementation of the anticorruption program, as
measured, for example, by:
(i) Appointment of the head of the Corruption Prevention Bureau (CPB); adoption of a
structure that serves functions; allocation of sufficient human, physical, and financial
resources to the CPB; adoption of performance indicators; implementation of the mechanism
to monitor and report on changes in corruption; the start-up of operations; and
(ii) Transfer of responsibility to the CPB for investigating possible cases of conflict of
interest and illicit enrichment and supervision of the finances of political parties.
Judicial reform. Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the medium-term action plan
for judicial reform, as measured, for example, by:
(i) Publication on a semiannual basis of agreed performance indicators by the Ministry of
Justice, for example, on public confidence in the judiciary; and
(ii) Implementation of a time-bound action plan by the Ministry of Justice for strengthening
its monitoring of commercial cases, administrative cases, and public confidence in the
judiciary.
Transparency and accountability ofpublic sector institutions. Satisfactory implementation of
the Administrative Procedure Law, as measured, for example, by:
- 39 -



(i) Annual publication of a statistical report on appeals and users' satisfaction with the,
procedures; and
(ii) The conversion of at least 25 existing non-profit state enterprises into agencies to make
them consistent with the Law on Public Sector Agencies, which defines a transparent,
accountable, and financial management regime for all public sector agencies.
Institutional capacity
Pay reform. The Cabinet of Ministers has adopted regulation on pay reform, including a
detailed schedule for its implementation; actual implementation has started.
Social assistance. Satisfactory implementation of the new social assistance system, as
measured, for example, by the Saeima adopting the Law on Social Services and by the
implementation of policy measures to:
(i) Improve the targeting of the neediest; and
(ii) Strengthen the incentive and monitoring systems in place.
Rationalizing the interactions between the public and private sector
Privatization. Satisfactory implementation and completion of the remaining privatization
agenda, as measured by preparing and offering for sale Ventspils Nafta (VN) and, as soon as
litigation is over, the govemment's shares in Lattelekom.
For both VN and Lattelekom, the govemment will use an international investment bank,
hired though international competitive tender, and will offer its shares for sale in an open,
competitive manner and at a fair price to the govemment, with the process to be attested to as
fair, open, and competitive by the investment bank
Regulatoryframework.
(i) Timely adoption by the Public Utilities Commission of gas, electricity, and
telecommunications tariffs according to transparent, published methodologies.
(ii) Adoption by the Public Utilities Commission of rules governing access to the
transmission grid in electricity and bottleneck network facilities in telecommunications.
Energy sector. In the electricity sector:
(i) The annual electricity consumption threshold for Qualified Customers to 20 GWh will be
reduced.
(ii) The Transmission System Operator is licensed and operates as a fully independent entity
with an independent Board of Directors.
- 40 -



(iii) The government has adopted an electricity market model and has revised energy
legislation that will meet EU directives for electricity market liberalization.
Monitoring and Evaluation
88.   Monitoring Arrangements. Latvia's PSAL program has set clear benchmarks in all
areas, together with expected outcomes to be achieved after completion of reforms. These
benchmarks are not conditions of future lending, but guideposts to signal when progress has
advanced or is falling behind in any given area. If progress is adequate, Latvia's reform
program could be supported through subsequent annual PSALs under the programmatic
lending framework, subject to the approval of the Board of Executive Directors. Latvia and
the Bank will agree on the appropriate size and timing of future PSALs over the next 3 years
as program implementation progresses.
89.   Through regular reviews and in the context of the preparation and supervision of the
next PSAL, the Bank will monitor the implementation of the agreed benchmarks. Working
closely with the government and other donors, the Bank's support will focus on directly
monitorable results. Policy reforms, which are critical for the PSAL program to achieve its
macroeconomic and poverty reduction objectives, have been discussed with the authorities
and are included in the Letter of Development Policy [Annex 5]. Progress under the proposed
mnd future PSALs will be reviewed on the basis of implementation of triggers and
benchmarks, as presented in paragraph 87 and the matrix of policy measures in Annex 4. The
main monitoring instruments for PSALs would be: (i) the reviews of the structural reform
program, carried out on an ongoing basis by staff of the Riga Office and, more formally, at
least every 6 months by the Bank team in coordination with the IMF and the EU; updates of
the NDP through its progress reports; public expenditure reviews; policy workshops; and
3elected economic and sector work.
Loan Administration
90.   Borrower and Loan Amount. The proposed PSAL will be made to the Republic of
Latvia, represented by the Ministry of Finance. The loan, which would be released in a
single tranche of US$20.21 million, will be on customized terms (6 years grace with 13 years
to full repayment for a fixed-spread loan.).
91.   Disbursement. The government has decided to select the Deferred Drawdown
Option (DDO) for this operation, which offers the possibility of not tapping into the
resources until there is a need, as well as the absence of a penalty for non-use. This implies a
commitment fee of I percent on undisbursed amounts, beginning 60 days after the loan
agreement is signed, payable during the drawdown period while DDO is not exercised. A
front-end fee of 1 percent of each withdrawn amount will be paid to the Bank from the loan
proceeds only following any drawdowns. Upon approval of the loan and notification by the
Bank of loan effectiveness, the government may submit a withdrawal application. The
Ministry of Finance will open and maintain a deposit account in the Bank of Latvia. The
CBRD will deposit the proceeds of the loan in this account at the request of the Ministry of
Finance. If, after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible
purposes (for example, to finance items imported from non-member countries, or goods or
services on the IBRD's standard negative list), the IBRD will require the borrower to either:
(i) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes or (ii) refund the amount
- 41 -



directly to the IBRD, in which case, the IBRD will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount
of the loan.
92.   Accounts, Auditing, and Closing Date. The IBRD reserves the right to require an
audit of the deposit account. The closing date of the loan will be December 31, 2003.
93.   Environmental Impact. The proposed operation is an adjustment loan. Therefore,
the requirements of Operational Directive (OD) 8.60 apply. The program supported under this
loan strengthens Latvia's capacity to implement its existing environmental laws. Latvia has
made good progress over recent years in improving its environmental performance. The
Government has finalized the Environmental Chapter of EU accession negotiations and is
implementing acquis communautaire. Major environmental laws are in place, including the
General Environmental Protection Law and the Law on Protected Areas. Environmental
compliance and enforcement systems are functional. Latvia is a party to major global
environmental conventions. The country is also implementing the Helsinki Convention on
Protection of the Baltic Marine Environment.
Benefits and Risks
94.   Benefits. The actions under PSAL II will promote fiscal adjustment and improve the
public sector's capacity to carry out its role effectively and efficiently. At the same time, the
actions supported by the loan will encourage private sector development by continuing the
privatization process and defining a transparent and effective regulatory framework. The
operation will also assist in the government's anticorruption effort and streamline business
regulation, leading both to a more efficient govermnent and a better functioning market
economy. Together, these measures will be a positive signal to domestic and foreign
investors about Latvia's business environment, and enhance the benefits that Latvia will
garner from timely EU accession. Finally, enhanced public sector service delivery capacity
will help ensure that these benefits are broadly shared within Latvia.
95.   Risks.  The deterioration of the current account deficit remains the main
macroeconomic risk to sustaining a high growth regime in Latvia. Given the currency peg, a
shortfall in political commitment to fiscal balance could undermine overall sustainability.
The highly politicized environment in Latvia also affects political commitment to public
sector reform generally, especially in a program with such a significant emphasis on
improved governance. Such risks are heightened by the frequent changes of government that
have characterized Latvia since independence. Furthermore, continuing dependence on
multiparty coalition governments with varying ministerial portfolios increases the risk of
poor interministerial coordination and policy interventions by special interest groups.
96.   These risks are mitigated to a substantial extent by the design and content of the
PSAL loan as a single tranche operation linked to prior actions. The Government of
Latvia has a strong track record of reform implementation and commitment to
macroeconomic balance even in difficult political circumstances, as evidenced by their
agreement with the IMF on ambitious macroeconomic targets for the SBA and ability to
support the currency peg over an 8-year period of considerable economic turmoil. The
World Bank will continue to assist the government to mobilize the technical assistance
required to adopt and implement its program. Latvia's strong determination to join the
- 42 -



European Union also facilitates the continuity of the programmatic approach supported
by the PSAL program. An interministerial work group under the coordination of the
Ministry of Finance, which helped in the preparation of PSAL II and I, will continue its
work during the implementation phase of the reform program and improve coordination
among the implementing agencies.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
97.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the loan.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
August 15, 2002
-43 -



Latvia at a glance                                                          8/16/02
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Central  middle-
Latvia     Asia   Income      Development diamond*
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                     2.4      475     2,046                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (AUas method, US$)                 3,300     2,010    1,140
GNI (Atas method, US$ billions)                     7.8      956     2,327
Average annual growth, 199541
Population (%)                                     -1.1       0.1      1.0     GN
Labor force (%)                                    -0.6       0.6      1.3     GNI I                          Gro
per                           pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                          capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)            69        67        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                    70.       69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)            14        21        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)           ..        ..      I1           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  ..      90        80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                 0         3        15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  96    100       114            Latvra
Male                                               98      101       116             Lower-middle-income group
Female                                            93        99       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991     2000      2001
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                          ..     11.0       7.2      7.5
Gross domestic investmenVGDP              30.0     33.7      26.7     29.0                    T
Exports of goods and services/GDP            ..    35.2      45.8     45.7                     rade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                34.8     43.5      18.1      17.4
Gross national savings/GDP                   ..      ..      19.8     18.9
Current account balance/GDP                  ..      ..      -6.9     -10.0    Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                        ..     0.0       1.1      1.1        .                       Investment
Total debttGDP                               ..     0.0      40.2     49.5     savings
Total debt service/exports                  ..       ..       7.1      4.7
Present value of debtVGDP                    ..      ..      13.2     15.0
Present value of debtlexports               ..
Indebtedness
1981-91  199141     2000      2001   200145
(average annual growth)
GDP                                6.7    -0.2      6.8       7.6      5.8
GDP per capita                     6.2     1.0      7.4       8.5      6.6              Lower-rniddle-income group
Exports of goods and services       ..     4.0     16.1       9.3      6.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991     2000      2001     Growth of investment and GDP(%)
(% of GOP)
Agrculture                                13.8     23.1       4.5      4.5     e
Industry                                  50.0     43.9      25.4     24.9     4 t.
Manufacturing                            45.1     35.7     14.7      14.9     20+-
Services                                  36.2     32.9      70.1     70.6     o4
Private consumption                       57.5     46.2      62.1     62.5    *201    96   97   956           O 0
General govemment consumption              7.8     10.3      19.8     20.0                   GDI     --*-GDP
Imports of goods and services               ..     25.5      54.3     57.2
1981-91  199141      2000      2001     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agnculture                                 4.8     -4.8       9.2      5.9     o
Industry                                   7.6     -3.7       5.8      8.5    30
Manufacturing                             8.7    -3.7       7.0       9.5    20
Services                                   5.7      4.2       7.1      8.1    10
Private consumpton                         6.8     -1.0       5.6      7.0     0         l    l            O     o 
General govemment consumption              4.5      7.3      -1.9      1.8   -10
Gross domestic investment                  0.3      4.6       0.6     27.2               Eports          lmports
Imports of goods and services               ..      6.6      11.9     15.0
Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 44 -



Latvia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Inflation I%)
Domestic prkces
(% change)                                                                      25
Consumer prices                                ..      ..       2.6      2.5    20
Implicit GDP deflator                        2.7    158.2       4.1      1.6    ito
Government finance                                                               s
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                              o
Current revenue                                ..      ..      37.4     35.9            99    97    98    99    00    01
Current budget balance                         ..      ..       1.3     -1.2         -       GOP deflator - O  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       ..      -3.3     -1.9
TRADE
(Us$ millions)                             1981     1991      2000     2001      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            .       ..     2.058    2.216     4.000
Commodity 1                                  ..      ..         .              3,500
Commodity 2                                           ..       ..              3,000
Manufactures                                ..       ..     1,711     1 ,810   2,5000
Total imports (cdf)                           ..       ..     3.117    3,587    12,500
Food                                        ..       ..       285      314       .   __
Fuel and energy                             ..       ..       135      143 s.0
Capital goods                               ..       ..       521      593        0
95  98  97  go 99  00   01
Export price index (1995=100)                 .        ..      102       105           9    8   9     8   9     0   0
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      ..       107       109                *Exports      Imnorts
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      ..       96        97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1981     1991      2000     2001      Current account balance to GDP (#)
Exports of goods and services                 ..      ..      3,271    3,451      0  _
Imports of goods and services                 ..      ..      3,886    4,318     -2
Resourre balance                              ..      ..      -15      -867
Net income                                     ..     ..        24        30
Net currenttransfers                          ..       ..       98       80      4            i   I
Current account balance                        ..      .      -493     -758      -8                      *
Financing items (net)                         ..               521     1,072    a10
Changes in net reserves                        ..     ..       -28     -314      -12
Memno:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..      ..       919     1,218
Conversion rate (DEC, local/lUS$)             ..      ..        0.6      0.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(US$ millions)                                                                   Compostlion of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          0        0      3.186    4.070
IBRD                                        0        0       242      286                          A 266
IDA                                         0        0         0        0                             C: 25
Total debt service                            0        0       265      181                             0*  : 320
IBRD                                        0        0        21       32
IDA                                         0        0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows                                                  G: 2,127
Official grants                             ..      ..        32       46
Official creditors                          0        0        -7       39                                    F: 1,286
Private creditors                           0        0      -233      -33
Foreign direct investment                   ..      ..       398      194
Portfolio eqluity                           ..      ..      -319      132
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                 0        0        72        0      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               0        0        63       40      B - IDA  D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        0        0         9        16     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Netflows         .                          0        0        54       24
interest payments                           0        0        12       16
Net transfers                               0        0        42        8
Development Economics                                                                                            8/16/02
- 45 -



-Key Economic IndiC4tors -19,95-2005                                                                   _______
- ACual          snae          -    ~      prqeced 
A""'m"ve scenario .-                    -          99       ZQQ         Q1                  2093':     204        2005
-7 -36%        7.4%      8.5%       5.0%       6.0% o     6.00%      6.0%/
Population                                       -.4%       06        -.%        0.%        00         0.0%11     0.0%*
GDP (consmt npries)                                10%/6  6.8%       7.6%05/o             6.-00%     6.0%       6.00%
-Exports of goods and services                 .  71        1.%        93         6.2%       6.0%/      5-.9%,    6.0%/
Import of goods and serices                    .-93%     . I1.9%      15.0%'     7.0%-      5.2%     -5160%       5.3%
TrmsofTrade-                                -    1.8%   -- -3.4%0       .%   .   07%         07.       O. 05      0
GrossDomestic lnvestmnent -                   7                                                                      /9 '06'  72  .8  .% 96/ 
Money Supply (M2X).-.                             80   >    2.%-      20.8%       9.%       9.0%    -  9.0%     9. O9.0
CPI (averge)      '~                           '2.4%A      -2.6%       2.5%    -   .%       3.0%       3.0%       3.00%
Naftional Account (% of MP).-
Gosdomestic investmnot (nel- cbarkges int stocks) .  26.7%  26.76%  29.  .        A     -28.0%      29.0%e     29.60W
Public invesimnot                             01Y47%    4.06%      3.7%.     3.7%       4.2%       5,0%    - 5.1%
.Piivael nvestmet                   .        22.00%a   22.7%.     25.3%,     24.2%.o    23.80%     24.00%    24.6%/
Gross national savings--          17.1%     ~~~~19.8    18.9%     19.3%   -2G.6%1      .24.8%      22.5%
Ptivate savlno--63                                     19.2%    :17.1%       7.%       17 M9%     17.7%/   '17.8%
Balnc Of Paments~ (% oGDP)                                                                       -    . 
Expout of goods and services .            -      43.7%/     45.8%1/   45.7%/     45.6%     '45.8%    . 45.8o     45.7h    -
bnp6rts of goods and savices                     54.1%      54.3%     57.2%      58.0%      57A4%     .57.1%     56.7%
Npticoine,receipts.                      .       '0.5%l     0.0%   .   01%        1.2%    '.0.9%     .  .7%       04/%
.unrent accoutbalance-                      .    98     m..6.9%     -40.00/o    - 4.3%l     -7.5%   -73             /
Currnmt account balance (mill. UJSS)              -654-     -493       -7S8       -6k'      '658        .7G3      -745
qGross Reserves (mill. US$)-                       944l.4    '919.3,   _ .1218.3  1358.7     1410.2 -    486.8     1589.3
Cross Rsseveaas nonthsoQfimrport                  2.9        26     ,   3.2-      3.3        3.1.       3.0.       2.9
RER (1995,= 100; period average,)               -149.5      1.53.4     151.3     151.3      113        113        151.3
EXChaftgezrate (LVIUUS                            0-59      0.61       0.63       0.63  .   :0.63       0.63    .0.63
Govrnmat lnace %  f (31)?
-Government deficit/surplus- -                    -3.9%/     -3.3%,-    -1.9%/    -1.8Vw     -1.5%16    -0.9%-     -0.3%
Total revenue and Grants                         40.0%      37.4%/    35.9%      36.3%      36.9% o    38.3%  -  38.4%
Total Ex#ienditure. anid net lendig,             43.96%     40.7%  ..37.8%      . 38.1%     38.4%/     39.1%     3.8
GovernmenitDebt to GDP                       -    31:       13.2%     15.0%1     13.90/.    14,2%     . 13.9%.o   13.2%
.Govemrnent Savigs to GDP       o--     -         0.8        o .7%/-.-  -4.8%     I.8%      -2.7%.      4.1%.,     4. %.
M2Xtuv niatr %         fG,                      "2-606    - 29.4%  .32.50%-      32.86%     32.7%      32.7%/     32.6%/
Dometstic Credit      -.                      -18.9%., -.24.4%        32.2%      31.0%1/  ,,30.1%      29.2%  -  28.5%/
- ofwhic4 to C-vermmet (net                     2.1%        .5.    :   .7       22         2.4%.      2.4%I      2.3%
Egposuire Indic.tr
Extermal Debt (mill. US$)       .        ,      25-.    -  2877.5    -3738.1    .4111.9  -4451.3 *.5341.6       . 5705.0
External Debt/GD?                  -        -    38.7%1  ~40.20/      49.%    - 54%       - 49.9*1      4.6-.537
Debtservice'toexpot                                        ' .%- 7.1%--  4.7%    4.4%-      4.70a     -8.7%   -   6.7%
Netlnternafionallnve~strnent,P_ositionQn(MD. US$)  -1827.1:  -2145.6  -2937.3   -326014    -3586.4    -4031.1    -3921.6
Met Interntional-Inves~MtmePosition/rDP -.  -.  727.4%     --30.0%  - -3,8.9%O  -39.9%/    -40.2%     -41.4%/    -44.90%
-46 



-Lagvli:        .          --                                                            - '  --s ; s ; ,.  -
Balance of Payments 1999-2005          . .
Actual        Esimated                 Projected
Indicative scenario  'i.299                      .            201)1     2002      2003      2004      2005
CUnRRuENTr ACCOUbrr          |      i- +  -653'6   -4935      -757.8   -681.7    -657.8    -70281  ; -7444 .5
, Goods; exprt . o. b.        .      1889.   2,58,3'    '22158     23705   ,6014       28898:    32011
Goods:ikumportsf.o.bl  . 1  -  ,     29161   : 3116.5!   3566;5   '3735.8   '4066.9    4447.2 -  4866.8 i
,Balnce on Goads                                           4 -  -10271  51  13507  13653  14655  15664  16657 /
.Ser  :inet,                 .    ' 33.0         2 4427  834      5455      6293      6779      741.1
Baknce on Gnoods *ud Se kes     .        :.;   11 -615.4   -867.3  --819.8     -836 2     8885   -96
Inomwenet :                           554       244       298.       82       07       --17.9 " ,53.5
Blance on Go    ,SvkesandIncome          7465     -5910      8375  '   806      8355      906.    I 9781
Current trapsfers: net          . '    93.0     97.5      79.7     .'199      1777      203.6     233'6
CAPrTALACCOUNTBALANCE              ,       i,26      29.4     -37.1 -   401       44.0      480       524 '
'.iNANCIALACCOUNTBAL          CE           7681 .  '  514.0    9971       96       678       735       79
' ForeignJnveviNi ienf(ut)i  ..;  ,,  330.6     398       1         445     ' 489.5     537.4     556.6
"?''',''i Porolioirmestrnern(net)  ,  oF t '/;1;'', Z735' 7.5  -319.2  132''  10.4  -106.  03     187
Otherinveswnent (net)     '203.1                373I2    l93        123.0     331        26       624
;                -.^ 21'   i +.  t-; .'.  r~,  ;  ---73             33,,  -,     6      62
|  NET ERRORS AND OI SSIONS        ;37.9                22]   '   38.2     '0,0        0        0.0       0.0
A    E     BC         ' I-  ,       . '    6     ;    ; 
OVERALLBALANClE                           165 0     "278      314.5     1500      610 -      80.9.'-. 12
FINANCING1TEES                             1650      278 ,. '-3145      1500    -610     '-809        102.5
,    Clhangeh NFA, total                     1 '   - 65;0       -314.5    -150.0 ;.61.0 -i r-80:9' .    -102.5  ;.
Grois convertble'resenes -          '-49.9 ' -17.7,      -304.5    140.0-    -51.0 .  .-;759    -102.5 
Useof fund credit, net             -1-.r-,     -I1:1     -10.0,'  .10.0     ;-10.0_.  ,-5.0.      0.0     ;



LATVIJAS REPUBLIKAS MINISTRU PREZIDENTS
Prime Minister of the Republic of Latvia
36 Brilvibas Blvd., Riga LV-1520, Latvia, tel. +371 7082800; fax +371 7286598
August 6, 2002
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H St. NW
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
Subject: Proposed Second Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan
Letter of Development Policy
1.   Since our country regained its independence, we have consistently
pursued reforms and modernization of our society and public sector, with the
ultimate objective of moving from a centrally-planed economic and social
system to one in which the market is allowed to be the main mechanism for
allocation of our scarce resources. We expect that the reforms supported by
the Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan (PSAL) program and outlined
in this letter to you will accommodate Latvia's goal of joining the EU and
help to bring about a sustained reduction in poverty.
2.   I will not repeat many of the issues discussed in the letter of
development policy, dated February 16, 2000, which accompanied the first
- 48 -



Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan PSAL documents that were
approved by your Executive Board on March 16, 2000. This letter was sent
to you by my predecessor, Mr. Skele. My Government still subscribes to the
content of that letter. I propose, therefore, that I inform you about the
progress that has been made since the first PSAL was approved, that I
outline to you the measures that have been taken to keep the program on
track as well as the measures that are intended to be taken during the
remaining phase of our reform program supported by the PSAL.
3.   In certain areas, we have made less progress, in particular
privatization and initially in fiscal consolidation; in other areas we have
adjusted the program to incorporate new analytical information that has
become available about the outstanding issues and their possible solutions,
e.g. anticorruption. We have also worked with your team to incorporate
issues that clearly overlap with the reform program supported by the PSAL,
but were not apparent during the preparation of PSAL I, i.e. issues related to
gas sector liberalization. I will bring your attention to these issues as I
discuss the progress with the overall reform program and the next steps that
we intend to take.
General progress under the PSAL program and PSAL II measures
Returning to a Macroeconomic Framework conducive to robust growthi
4.   The macro economic framework of our reform program focuses on
measures to further reduce the macro imbalances that re-emerged after the
Russian crisis. It is clear that Latvia was affected more severely than
initially expected. This has shown its impact especially on our fiscal
outcomes. In support of the short-term stabilization objectives of our reform
program, we have reached a new agreement with the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) on an 18 month precautionary Stand-By Arrangement (SBA),
which was approved by the IMF board on April 20, 2001 for SDR 33
million. This program will be in place until the end of 2002.
5.   A detailed account of this program is provided in a Letter of Intent
and the Memorandum of Economic Policies that we submitted to the IMF in
our request for the precautionary SBA in June 2002. We recently reached
agreement with the IMF on a fiscal deficit target of 1.8 percent in 2002 and
on a plan to achieve this target through increased fiscal revenues and
delayed non-essential expenditures. So far, fiscal performance for the first
two quarters of 2002 has been consistent with our objectives. We are
- 49 -



committed to stay within the targets agreed under the second SBA and to
maintain an appropriate medium-term macroeconomic framework not only
for the duration of the program but also thereafter as it will greatly facilitate
growth and our integration with the European Union.  Our economy
experienced a strong recovery during 2000, which has even become stronger
during 2001. This cumulated in a growth rate of 7 percent for 2001, one of
the highest since we regained our independence. To ensure that our macro
framework supports such a rapid growth path, we will closely monitor and
update our macro economic framework in close collaboration with your staff
and, especially, with the IMF.
6.   Besides the issues discussed above with respect to the macro
economic framework and the need to have control over our overall fiscal
position, we need to address remaining pension issues this time such that our
pension system is fair, its fiscal impact is clear and is financially viable in
the future. All of us are aware that the system needs to be put on a secure
financial footing such that it does not contribute to our fiscal deficit today or
in the future. For this reason we have reviewed the impact of the November
1999 amendments and have submitted new amendments to the Saeima,
which have subsequently been adopted, to the Pension Law that remove all
prohibitions to working and taking a pension, curb early retirement and
regulate future indexation. Now these amendments have been passed, we
intend to focus our attention to ensure that the second tier will operate
properly. Therefore, we are reviewing progress with the implementation of
the second tier and will adopt changes if necessary. We have also developed
regulations to permit private sector asset management.  During the
remainder of the pension reform program supported by the PSAL, we will
continue to take actions that will ensure that all three tiers of the pension
system are in place and operating appropriately. Of course, we will continue
to closely monitor the financial viability of the pension system and
undertake further adjustments if it turns out that our earlier amendments are
not having the expected result.
STRENGTHENING THE CREDIBILITY OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR
Anti corruption and conflict of interest management
7.   I would like to congratulate you on the anticorruption report,
"Anticorruption in Transition: a Contribution to the Policy Debate" that your
staff prepared for the World Bank-IMF 2000 annual meetings in Prague. I
- 50 -



would also like to thank your staff, who worked on this report, and visited
Latvia to discuss with the Cabinet the findings and the implications of this
report as it helped us understand the issues of how to deal with corruption
much better. In the light of the conclusions of the report, we have
reevaluated our anticorruption strategy. We have set up three different
working groups: (i) one to redraft the anticorruption law; (ii) one to design a
new anticorruption unit, Corruption Prevention Bureau, which would
combine the responsibilities of the anticorruption unit of our state revenue
service and the Corruption Prevention Council and which will in addition
have limited investigative powers; and (iii) a third one that worked on a new
set of laws regulating the financing of political parties and election
campaigns. These laws have appropriate safeguards and mechanisms for
transparency, accountability, and audit. They have all been adopted by
Parliament. All these measures confirm our commitment to fight corruption
in our country and will help reducing 'state capture,' which was found to be
the main corruption impediment in Latvia in your Prague report.
8.   As a consequence, we have established in law the Corruption
Prevention Bureau (CPB). The new bureau will begin its operations towards
the end of 2002. It will absorb the corruption prevention activities of
different public sector bodies, including responsibilities for investigating
possible cases of conflict of interest and illicit enrichment and supervision of
political parties finances. We are committed to ensuring that the new bureau
has the human, physical, and financial resources it will need to execute its
functions effectively. We are now engaged in the process of recruiting the
head of the new bureau. Upon assumption of office, he or she will lead the
design of the organizational structure of the CPB, recruit qualified staff
using transparent procedures, prepare appropriate operational procedures
and manuals, and train staff in those procedures.  To ensure CPB's
accountability, performance indicators will be designed which include
collecting public feedback on attitudes toward and experiences with
corruption. We have already designed a survey instrument for this purpose
and had hoped to implement it on a regular basis even before the
establishment of the CPB, but this proved to be impractical. We do publish
information on progress in the implementation of our overall anticorruption
strategy on a regular basis.
9.   Education is a key pillar of our anticorruption strategy. The School of
Public Administration (SOPA) is playing an important role in training our
public officials in understanding conflict of interest. For that purpose, SoPA
has prepared a draft manual and curriculum for training public sector
- 51 -



employees in conflict of interest and trained its own instructors as well as all
newly hired public officials. The CPC Secretariat has also conducted
specialized workshops on conflict of interest and provided civic education
on corruption prevention. We expect that these actions will contribute to an
increased understanding by public officials of conflict of interest
prohibitions and other ethics standards. We will continue to implement
these training activities over time.
10.  An important step that we have taken to improve the transparency and
credibility of the privatization process is to invite a Non Governmental
Organization (NGO) to monitor key privatizations. One NGO, Delna,
monitored the privatization process of Latvia Shipping and we expect that
the Latvia Privatization Agency (LPA) will continue to invite a qualified
NGO to monitor key privatizations. In the coming year, as a way of further
enhancing the Government's credibility with the public, we will also ask the
Latvian Procurement office to invite a qualified NGO to monitor their large
procurements.
Judicial Reform
11.  We undertook many actions last year to strengthen the credibility of
our Judiciary. With support of the PSAL program we have further deepened
our reform efforts in this area. The Ministry of Justice, with help from
UNDP, has developed and adopted a medium term strategic action plan for
reform of Latvia's Judiciary. This ambitious action plan is designed to (i)
increase efficiency, (ii) strengthen incentives, (iii) guarantee independence,
(iv) enhance transparency and openness, and (v) collect feedback from the
public.To monitor the performance of the judiciary and the effectiveness of
this reform program in particular, the Ministry of Justice is publishing, on an
annual basis, statistics on changes in its own performance. It is now
engaged in a process of reforming this system of performance monitoring to
better monitor the effectiveness of its reform program. It has conducted a
review of this system, with an aim to strengthen its monitoring of (i)
commercial cases; (ii) administrative cases; and (iii) public confidence in the
judiciary. As part of this effort, it has prepared an action plan that will
integrate information systems of the lower courts and the Supreme Court.
Next year, we will begin implementing this action plan, as well as prepare an
action plan to include information on prosecution and court execution into
this monitoring system.
12.  We have taken a number of additional measures that also aim at
increasing the transparency of the judiciary.  Users of courts have
- 52 -



complained that judicial corruption often takes place in the private chambers
of judges, when parties to civil or criminal proceedings or their legal counsel
meet privately with the judge. These 'ex parte' communications are no
longer permitted. To enforce this procedure, all renovated or new court
buildings now provide judges with secured chambers that restrict access, so
that ex parte communications cannot easily take place. To increase public
access to judicial decisions and provide greater judicial accountability, many
of the district court, appeal court and Supreme court decisions are now
published. Review of decisions for criminal cases is now facilitated by the
introduction of cumulative indexing of decisions. Cumulative indexing for
civil cases will be introduced shortly.
13.  Initially we had expected to submit to Saeima a new criminal
procedure code, which had been in preparation for the last six years.
However, the proposed concepts prepared by the Ministry of Justice were
not fully in line with standards advocated by the Council of Europe nor do
they allow for cost saving streamlined procedures. In addition, the Minister
of Justice was concerned that as many European countries themselves are
redrafting their criminal procedures code, passing of the current version
would have made the law outdated within a few years. Therefore, we have
decided to redraft the Law so that it will be in conformity with Council of
Europe standards for among others streamlined procedures and which
eliminates all ex parte contact between judges and litigants, unless properly
recorded. The new concept has been approved by the Cabinet and work on
the new draft law had begun. To be able to state that the judicial system
operates more efficiently and effectively with less corruption and with
increased public confidence, we intend to continue to implement this judicial
reform program, and monitor its implementation and effectiveness over
time.
Law on Public Sector Azencies
14.  During the preparation of PSAL I, our staff worked closely with the
Bank's team to draft two important laws. The first is the law on the
Framework of Public Administration, which regulates the establishment,
subordination, control, accountability and funding arrangements for public
administration bodies. This law was adopted in June 2002. The second is
the law on Public Sector Agencies, which defines a transparent, accountable,
and financial management regime for our public sector agencies. The
Saeima adopted this law in March 2001. To support implementation of these
- 53 -



laws, we adopted extensive implementation regulations, which define (i) the
tasks and functions that an agency can perform; (ii) the mechanism through
which an agency under the new law can be created; and (iii) the criteria to
decide which of the current set of agencies to bring under the articles of the
new Law, to divest, or to bring back into the normal structure of the line
ministry. On the basis of these regulations, our Cabinet of Ministers has
established the procedure for review of non-profit state-owned companies,
and reorganization of some of them into public agencies. These initial steps
need to be followed up in the years to come with steps to implement this
important piece of legislation. According to a timetable approved by the
Cabinet of Ministers in April 2002, next year at least 25 non-profit state-
owned enterprises will be converted into public sector agencies under this
law; other bodies will be divested, liquidated, or converted into other legal
forms.
Openness of information.
15.  Access to information is an important part of participatory and
credible Government. We want to facilitate this process and we have,
therefore, decided to further streamline the process by which the public can
get access to information. The Ministry of Justice has established a central
unit with the capacity to coordinate government implementation of, and
provide guidance and expertise on, the Petitions Act and the Law on
Information Access. The unit will be developing a system for monitoring
the implementation of the law, which includes (i) a mechanism for
measuring fulfillment of public requests for information; and (ii) publication
of these measures in the annual reports of public sector bodies. Our public
sector bodies already publish annual reports.  Soon, we will adopt a
regulation that these annual reports must provide information on (i) the
rights of the public to information; (ii) the procedures for public to access
information; and (iii) the extent of fulfillment of public requests for
information. Next year, we expect that all action plans will be fully
implemented such that the public has easy and simple access to our
documents
Annual reports of public institutions
16.  To follow up on the initiated reforms with respect to reporting
requirements for public bodies, we decided to review the current procedures.
As a consequence, we have prepared amendments to the instruction on
Public Annual Reports. These amendments, which require the preparation
- 54 -



of more performance-focused reports, have been adopted by our Cabinet of
Ministers, and are to be used in all public institutions including regulators.
We have even started to publish them on the Internet to facilitate access by
our constituents. Our Development Agency (LDA) has also conducted
surveys and it reports on the opinion of the private business sector and the
public at large with respect to the performance of various institutions. It is
clear that we will need to follow up on the surveys and to ensure that this
work continues. I have asked the Chancellery office to monitor these
developments.
Administrative procedures.
17.  Proper Administrative procedures are extremely important to give the
public at large recourse against undue Government decisions or interference
in their lives. With your team, we have been working on revising our
administrative procedures and this has cumulated in a new law that has now
been adopted by the Saeima. It is clear that this puts in place an important
link with the other components of the reform program that aim to improve
our credibility. We have also developed and adopted an implementation
plan.
18.  The next steps that we need to take will focus on implementation of
this important law. To monitor progress closely with the Law's
implementation, we will design a system that measures compliance with the
new Law. This will include publication, on an annual basis, of a statistical
report on appeals and users' satisfaction with the procedures.
STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR
Streamlining the structure of the public sector and increase administrative
efficienca and transparency
19.  Work undertaken for our Government by Sir Robin Mountfield
initially commissioned by the European Delegation in Latvia made it clear
that we had to strengthen our efforts with respect to public sector reform.
One of his main conclusions was that the Government of Latvia had a 'hole
at the heart of Government'. As a result, we decided to strengthen the office
of the Chancellor by revamping its management and by adding a unit to its
structure with clear responsibilities in the areas of policy coordination. In
addition, the Bank's recently completed Public Expenditure Review shows
- 55 -



that indeed one of the main culprits in our public management system is a
lack of policy coordination and strategic planning at the center and at the
level of line ministries.
Blue print for Public Sector Reform
20. The Ministry of Public Sector Reform (MoPSR) was asked by the
Cabinet to redraft the blueprint for public sector reform. The blueprint,
which is now revised, includes a clear action plan with deadlines for the
implementation of specific public sector reforms to ensure that we stay on
track with this important reform program and that we can keep the staff
responsible for its implementation accountable. Work is progressing well
and the Cabinet has received and adopted the proposals for reform by the
line ministries as a follow up of the adoption of the original blue print. In
addition, the Secretariat of MoPSR has established a mechanism to monitor
and report on the changes in public sector management and publishes, on an
annual basis, changes in public sector management and performance, partly
based on Public Annual Reports by our public entities. From now on the
Secretariat will, on a semiannual basis, report in our official Gazette on
progress in the implementation of this reform program. The Cabinet of
Ministers has established a Public Sector Reform Coordinating Council
which coordinates the implementation of the time-bound action plan for the
medium-term public sector reform program.
Functional and Fundamental reviews
21.  To facilitate the work on policy and strategic planning (see for more
detail below), the Secretariat of MoPSR, with help from the new policy
coordination unit in the Chancellery office and the Ministry of Finance, has
expanded the scope of the functional review instrument. This instrument has
been expanded and includes a policy review as well as a review of the
efficiency of the expenditures undertaken by our line ministries, and
institutional structure review. Notwithstanding these enhancements, we are
proceeding with the implementation of the outcomes of the functional
reviews undertaken so far. A main accomplishment will be the completion
of the restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture, according to the action
plan that we agreed upon last year. We expect that the methodology
developed for conducting fundamental reviews will be used for the
preparation of the 2003 budget in selected ministries. To ensure that this
- 56 -



instrument will be effectively used, we have allocated budgetary resources
(equivalent to five staff at the level of deputy head of a department),
instructed the Public Sector Reform Coordination Council to monitor the
implementation of the recommendations of the review, and made the line
ministries undergoing that review to incorporate its recommendations in
their strategic plans.
Incentives for recruitment and retention of staff
22.  Our government has collected detailed information on the existing pay
structure such that different implementation options could be calculated. We
had decided to overhaul our current pay structure as it is not transparent, nor
does it provide equitable pay for equal work. Last year we decided on a
system that would be broad banded, transparent, and would have a uniform
pay scale for the public sector. The Ministry of Finance has drafted a
regulation for the new pay system that was approved in principle by the
Cabinet. The Ministry of Finance is now working on implementation
regulations, which include a schedule for its gradual introduction.  In
addition, the Government as part of its preparation strategy has conducted a
workshop for state secretaries and deputy state secretaries to discuss the pay
concept. Parallel to the implementation efforts we have begun developing
the functional requirements for a permanent database on public sector
employment, pay and functions to improve our capacity to monitor these
developments and their budgetary consequences. The database is expected to
be functional as the pay reform is implemented. The updated regulations are
scheduled to be submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers on October 8, 2002.
23. Obviously, the above actions will need to be followed up by the actual
implementation of the new pay system for the public sector. We will also
take steps to ensure that the gathering of statistics on public sector as well as
private sector pay will be continued such that we can conduct research on
developments of private sector pay and among others its financial
implications for the public sector.
Civil Service.
24.  An integral part of the pay reform is the introduction of performance
reviews of our staff. In 2000, we passed a new civil service law, which
requires that we evaluate our staff's performance. This year we have
established a procedure for performance reviews, trained our managers in
-57 -



conducting performance reviews of our civil service, and conducted our first
round of performance evaluations. We will soon publish an annual report on
the development of the civil service.
Improving public expenditure management
25.  One of our main objectives of our reform program is to improve the
management of our financial resources. Better management will not only
improve the functioning of the Ministry of Finance and its capabilities to
monitor our financial situation but it will also improve policy coordination
and strategic planning among the agencies at the center and between the
agencies at the center and the line ministries.
26.  To complete the reforms that aim to develop transparent and unified
accounts, one of the measures we took is to ensure that all Budget Financed
Institutions (BFIs) will have their accounts with the Treasury for the next
budget year (2003). Another measure in this area is that the Ministry of
Finance (MoF) ensures that new agencies operating under the new Law on
Public Sector Agencies open accounts only with the Treasury. Last year the
Cabinet adopted a regulation for the financial reporting of agencies. This
year the MoF has monitored compliance with .the financial reporting of
agencies and has submitted a report on last year's financial indicators to the
Cabinet of Ministers for their review. To improve fungibility of our scarce
resources the Cabinet has agreed to abstain from new earmarking of taxes
and to abstain from allowing the creation of own revenue for special
budgets. We expect to have a discussion on earmarking and own revenue
within the Cabinet next year, and to clarify the proper balance between
revenue autonomy and fungibility of budget resources.
27.   The State Audit Office (SAO) has also undertaken several measures
to strengthen its role in this process. It has developed a methodology to
estimate the budget coverage of its audit plan and has indicated that its audit
plan for 2001 included an estimated minimum of 20 percent of the
Government's basic and special budgets. It has also undertaken a audit of
accounting and reporting standards that the Central Government uses and
which are under the SAO's purview. In addition, the financial resources of
the SAO have been reevaluated and now meet the requirements of the
increase in number of audits that it is to be delivered to Saeima. During the
coming year, it is expected that the SAO will be able to audit all Central
Government's accounts on an annual basis and that they are to be published.
- 58 -



28.   Given the success we are seeing with the modernization effort of the
internal audit, we have be able to move forward with this component much
faster than initially expected. The MoF has started to focus already on
creating processes and mechanisms that will ensure follow up on internal
audits by responsible parties given that the capacity improvements have
taken place at a faster speed. The reform efforts in this area have resulted in
the submission by the MoF of an annual compiled audit report to Cabinet,
which has taken a decision on the proposed recommendations and the follow
up mechanisms, so as to ensure implementation of the adopted
recommendations. We have also set up an Audit Council with well-defined
responsibilities, which will further assist the MoF with building up internal
audit capacity in all of our line ministries. Until now the MoF had piloted
the internal audit procedures with a few line ministries. The coming year we
expect to expand this to all line ministries.
29.  I would like to take the opportunity to thank you for the excellent
report, Country Procurement Assessment Review  (CPAR) that your
procurement staff has done for us. We obviously want to improve our
procurement procedures and safeguards. Therefore, we have adopted an
action plan that tackles the main recommendations from the CPAR. A first
step was the adoption of a new Law on Public Procurement by Saeima. The
Government has also brought secondary legislation more in line with
international best practice.  We have also established an autonomous
Procurement Provision Bureau.
30.  Next year we expect to strengthen our bid procedures, including
administrative review of bidders' protest, and introduce standard pre-
qualification documents for goods, civil works and consultant services. New
administrative procedures are also developed which will help the
Government with debarring of firms and individuals who engage in
fraudulent and corrupt activities related to public procurement.
Development of performance-oriented budgets in line ministries.
31.  To be able to improve performance orientation of line ministries, we
need to have a strong center that can guide the line ministries during this
process. As mentioned above, the Government decided to strengthen the
Chancellery's office with a policy coordination unit. This unit has prepared
in close coordination with other central agencies the Government's first
annual budget priority statement which included our overall fiscal strategy,
our budget priorities, and criteria for annual budget priority setting
- 59 -



mechanisms to be used starting with the budget for 2003. The Cabinet has
approved this first annual budget priority statement. The unit has also
prepared guidelines in policy making and strategic planning for our line
ministries. It will also prepare Guidelines for strategic planning for our line
ministries. The Ministry of Agriculture has successfully piloted the strategic
planning exercise and will use its new strategic plan in the preparation of the
2003 budget. We expect that these measures will facilitate greatly our ability
to redirect our resources to those objectives, and in particular EU accession
related expenditures which are our highest priority. In addition, the MoF has
prepared a draft methodology of Public Expenditure reviews and the Cabinet'
has adopted an expenditure review program that covers all the line
ministries. We plan to start these expenditure reviews as soon as possible.
32.  The initial stage of the reforms in this area clearly aims to strengthen
the central institutions of our Government. Next steps in the coming year
will focus on (i) issuing regulations and guidelines for all line ministries for
strategic planning; (ii) helping pilot line ministries to develop their strategic
plans and annual performance programs and to use these as the basis of their
budget request, (ii) developing an action plan that strengthens the MoF's and
the (pilot) line ministries evaluation capabilities.
Development of a medium-term budget.
33.  This year the Cabinet has discussed and issued a medium-term fiscal
policy statement and a medium-term macro and fiscal framework submitted
by the MoF. The cabinet has also issued methodology guidelines for
medium term budget planning in line ministries. This year the 2002 Budget
actually includes not only these statements but also an explanation of
forecasting assumptions and fiscal risks. The budget also provides financing
information together with an analysis of the sources of the financing of the
budget. We plan to follow up these developments by establishing a Fiscal
Policy Consultative Board to consider the medium tenn fiscal plan (MTFP)
of the MoF.
Local Government Finances
34.  Given that we    have  around  570  municipalities, improving
transparency and accountability for our Local government finances is not an
easy exercise.  Nevertheless, we have prepared and published local
government accounts in line with the new accounting and debt management
procedures, carried out pilot programs for improved accounting and
financial reporting systems at selected municipalities and carried out an
- 60 -



analysis of performance achievements.  We have also reviewed the
equalization mechanism and decided to reform the system of expenditure
need calculation, because it is currently subject to political manipulation.
35. During the coming year, we will need to prepare an evaluation of the
financial management system, report on the scope of the training system for
local Government staff (number of staff trained per municipality), and
publish reports on the financial situation of local governments. This will
then have significantly contributed to improve the accountability and
information about budget execution by local governnents.
Social Assistance.
36.  We enjoy our ongoing dialogue with your staff in the social sectors, in
particular in the light of the social welfare project. All of this work pointed
to the fact that our social assistance programs are poorly targeted and as such
do not reach the vulnerable and poor of our society in a manner that they
could and should. During the first year of the PSAL, we piloted a means
tested social assistance benefit system and developed a new monitoring
system to support this means tested benefit system. The program has been
quite successful and we have decided to embed the new system in our Social
Assistance Law. Therefore, we have submitted amendments for national
implementation to Saeima, which were adopted. The Ministry of Welfare
has also developed and submitted to the Cabinet for its consideration
implementation regulations such that the amendments can be swiftly made
operational. In addition, an action plan for placing gatekeeping, referral
decisions and financing responsibilities for social care, and social assistance
with one level of government was prepared for discussion but we have not
been able to reach a decision on this yet.
37.  During next year, we will focus on further evaluation of the new
social assistance system in particular through analyzing the household
budget survey to see if indeed the services are better targeted. In addition,
we will define measures that will improve on the incentive and monitoring
systems that facilitate the allocation of social assistance expenditures.
Rationalizing the Interactions between the Public and Private Sector
Privatization and Re-aulatorv framework.
38.  As you know, Latvia has completed all but a few large privatizations.
Privatization of the remaining large enterprises has been a much more
- 61 -



difficult process than we had envisaged at the outset. of the PSAL program.
Although, it is clear that we have made significant improvements in the
process, besides the divestiture of our remaining interest in Latvija Gaze and
the privatization of Latvian Shipping through the sale of 83 percent of the
government's shares, the other privatizations have not been done.
39.  With respect to Lattelekom, Sonera, its strategic investor, has taken us
to arbitration court to resolve the issue of compensation for the shortening of
the company's exclusivity period from the year 2013 to 2003. You are
aware that we have committed ourselves to the WTO and the EU to shorten
this period. However, the undesirable result of this arbitration court case is
that we have had to stop the process for divesting our remaining interest in
Lattelekom. Also the intended merger of Sonera with Telia has created
additional delays in the arbitration process. I want to assure you that we
have acquired reputed international advisors to assist us during the
arbitration and that we will proceed swiftly with the privatization of our
shares once the case has been decided upon. We are committed to privatize
our shares in the company, when they become available, in an open,
competitive manner and at a fair price for the government, with the process
to be attested to as being fair, open and competitive by the investment bank
we will use for this transaction.
40.  We   have  continued  work  on  the  implementation  of the
Telecommunication Law, which was adopted by Saeima in 2001. In the
meantime, the newly established multisectoral regulatory body is proceeding
with the building up of the regulatory capacity needed to oversee the rapidly
changing telecommunications sector based upon best practices used in
OECD countries. The primary goal of the adopted regulatory framework is
to facilitate, during the coming years, the transition to a fully liberalized
telecommunications sector.
41.  The new regulatory body is expected to define and announce its
medium-term regulatory agenda for the telecommunications sector and start
work in the following areas: (a) generating a reasonable, practical approach
to price regulation, including the identification of cost, technical and other
data, which the regulated entities will be compelled to furnish, determination
of the cost of capital, depreciation, and other needed elements of regulatory
accounts; (b) establishing an interconnection framework defining the terms
and conditions of access to bottleneck telecommunications facilities; and (c)
establishing rules for spectrum allocation. We have already classified the
services to be regulated and have developed a numbering plan. A definition
- 62 -



of universal service and the establishment of a competitive neutral
mechanism to support universal goals is also to be defined shortly.
42.  In addition to the unfortunate delay in the divestiture of our interest in
Lattelekom, we were forced by Parliament to put Latvenereo on the list of
strategic companies not to be considered for privatization.  I would,
however, like to reiterate- that our. overall objective in the energy sector is
indeed to establish governance, policy, and regulatory framework, and
market structure that is consistent with EU directives, Baltic integration and
above all promotes competition. We had expected that the privatization of
Latvenergo would have been part of the reforms to accomplish this
objective. We expect that the ongoing restructuring will enable efficiency
gains from improved competitive pressures and facilitate the effective
privatization later on. To facilitate these changes, the Government has
prepared revisions to the market model which would deepen the reforms and
increase competition. To bring market pressure to Latvenergo to improve its
efficiency, we have decreased the criteria for qualified customers from 100
GWh to 40 GWh and plan to decrease this further to 20 GWh in 2003. In
addition, we have asked the Public Utilities Commission to review the
transmission and distribution tariffs as they were found prohibitively high
and were seen as a barrier to competition. We plan to review the pricing
criteria and methodology to see if further price reductions are warranted.
The Public Utilities Commission is also working closely with its
counterparts in Estonia and Lithuania to facilitate improved conditions for
electricity trade.
43.  To be consistent with the EU directives for energy, we have approved
a detailed restructuring program, to take steps toward meeting EU criteria
(EU Directive 92/96). Of particular importance we have- established:
generation and distribution as separate cost centers under a holding company
with separate management, staff and accounts. The Transmission System
Operator has been established as a separate legal entity with it's own
Supervisory and Management Boards. The Government will continue to
implement these reforms by establishing generation, transmission and
distribution as separate, independent legal entities each with their own
Boards. The Ministry of Economy has replaced the double tariff scheme
for hydro, wind and CHP generation plants with incentives for renewable
energy and environmentally friendly technologies in a manner that is
consistent with those of the EU.
- 63 -



44.  We had to postpone the privatization process of Latvia Shipping
shortly before the auction was to take place, because of non-compliance by
the two strategic investors with respect to the privatization regulations.
Subsequently, we privatized the company by a sale of 32. percent of the
company's shares for vouchers and 51 percent. for cash on the local stock
exchange. Of the remaining government shares, 6 percent will be sold to
employees and pensioners of the Company for privatization vouchers, 10
percent will be transferred without compensation to the State Special
Pension Budget and 1 percent will constitute the privatization reserve.
45.  Progress with the privatization process of Ventspils Nafta, our oil
pipeline company, has also been less satisfactory than we had anticipated.
We have received from the international investment bank, hired to prepare
the privatization for Ventspils Nafta, the privatization plan and the financial
valuation for the company. We fully expect to sell our interest in this
company next year. We will continue to use the same process that we have
agreed under the PSAL I operation and will use international investment
banks to prepare and privatize our very few remaining large enterprises. We
are committed to privatizing our shares in the company in an open,
competitive manner and at a fair price to the government with the process
and price to be attested to as fair, open and competitive by the investment
bank.
46.   The organization and architecture of post-privatization market and
governance structures are critical to the success of the privatization process
and the overall reform program in Latvia. To define our post-privatization
governance structures, Saeima has adopted two important laws in this area:
the Law on Public Services Regulators and the Law on Unified Financial
Supervision Agency. In both areas, the appointed council members have a
good understanding of what work needs to be done to be able to implement
the new laws.  Nevertheless, the time needed to draft all subsidiary
legislation, in particular to make the Law on Public Services Regulators
operational was significant. The inter-ministerial working group has been
able to submit to the Cabinet all the draft secondary legislation, which has
already been approved by the Cabinet. The Public Utilities Commission
(PUC), the new regulatory agency for infrastructure, became operational on
October 1, 2001. The agency has been given an appropriate starting up
budget and made significant progress in setting up its organizational
structure. Professional staffs with the needed expertise in the relevant
economic and legal principles have been hired. Moreover, the PUC has
- 64 -



published "Strategy and Basic Principles for Operation of PUC" and adopted
price cap principle for tariff setting, and been working to establish its
"charter" in order to specify and publicly articulate the principles that will
serve as a transparent basis for its future regulatory and other policy
determinations. The PUC has been working to establish rules that ensure
fair treatment for consumers who lack competitive alternatives, and
nondiscriminatory access of competitors to bottleneck infrastructure
facilities. In collaboration with the World Bank, the agency organized a
training workshop for its staff in June 2002, where experts from federal
regulatory agencies of the United States, made presentations on important
issues of regulatory due process, ethics, and the economics of regulation.
47.  During the next year we will need to monitor closely the development
of the PUC's medium term regulatory agenda, work to establish the basic
elements of accounting regulation, and finalize the methodologies for
regulating end-user tariffs and access to bottleneck infrastructure facilities.
In 2003, we expect that we will have offered our shares in Ventspils Nafta
for sale in an open, competitive manner.
Financial Sector Regulation.
48.  We have introduced and Saeima has adopted new legislation that
allows us to establish an integrated financial regulatory body (FCMC). We
are very much aware that formation of this new agency should not
undermine the credibility of the current supervision structures. We have
appointed a chairman and a co-chairman who have designed and decided on
the establishment of the organizational form for the FCMC along functional
responsibilities and have prepared a (draft) budget for the new body. In
addition, the supervisory council of this new body has been appointed, a
budget has been allocated, and an agreement on a training program has been
reached.
49.  Our next reforms in this area will be structured such that they will
help Latvia to reach its goal of a robust and efficient financial regulatory
regime that has adopted a seamless approach to financial supervision.
Business regulation
50.  It.is in our best interest to ensure that our regulatory system has the
mechanisms that are essential for building an effective and transparent
regulatory framework that can interact efficiently with our business
- 65 -



community.   To streamline this process the Ministry of Justice has
completed a draft manual for drafting laws and regulations based on good
legislative techniques. Our Ministry of Finance has prepared a draft manual
for assessing the budgetary consequences of the proposed draft laws and
regulations. Further to this, the Ministry of Justice has created a uniform
definition and procedure of 'normative acts' that will ensure that all these
acts are being reviewed by the Ministry of Justice prior to adoption by the
Cabinet of Ministers. Relevant government staff has been trained in cost
and benefit analysis and regulatory impact assessment.  The prepared
manuals are indeed used to evaluate draft laws and regulations, and to
undertake the impact assessments. We plan to make sure that all line
ministries implement adequate regulatory impact assessment procedures.
51.  To improve the functioning of state bodies that enforce regulations
such as our inspectorates, we have taken action to strengthen their
capabilities in assessment of the impact of their regulatory enforcement
actions, their capabilities to monitor their actions and to improve the
accountability of the state bodies that enforce regulation. To be more
specific, the Secretariat of the MoPSR has prepared and the Cabinet has
adopted new rules and procedures for inspections in the above-mentioned
areas. To create ownership under its constituency, a coordination council for
inspectorates with rotating presidency has been set up to help steer the
implementation of this particular reform program. An important outstanding
issue was the collection of fines, which was not as transparent as we would
have liked it to be.  Therefore, we have drafted new procedures for
collection of fines.  We have started the implementation of the new
inspection guidelines in the inspectorates, which had not done so and
designed annual reporting requirements of our inspectorates. In addition,
our inspectorates have discussed these new reporting requirements and have
begun implementing them. By next year, we anticipate that at least 50
percent of the inspectorates will have successfully implemented them.
52.  The goal of our reform program in this area is to come to an
inspection process that will be clear and accountable and where the
inspected bodies will have a larger voice regarding the mechanisms of the
inspection process. To accomplish this, we will need to focus on ensuring
that the relevant parties will review the reporting guidelines; that the
performance measures and reporting requirements in all inspectorates are
implemented; that feedback from inspected bodies is used in the
performance evaluations of inspectors and inspectorates; and that
- 66 -



satisfactory action on reported cases of corruption in inspections is taken
during the remainder of the program.
53.  Another business regulation area which we are trying to improve, is
regulatory coordination, especially in construction. Improvements can be
made to minimize delay and costs to the private sector. We have recognized
this and we have set up a working group to advise us on this issue. The
Latvia Development Agency has played a pivotal role in this and has
developed recommendations to improve upon the current regulatory
framework. We have acted on the initiatives and adopted two regulations:
one that streamlines the procedures for receiving construction permits, and a
second one that puts in place a more transparent method to determine fees.
The responsibility to ensure that the municipalities issue permits in
compliance with the new regulations has been given to the Municipal Board.
The Municipal Board has also disseminated information on the new
regulations and procedural practices coming from it.
54.  In addition we have published reports that among others summarizes
feedback from real estate developers, architects and building constructors
with our goal being to improve efficiency of the permit process, limit the
prevalence of. corruption and to make sure that all parties involved
understand their rights but also their responsibilities.
55.  To end up with a smooth and efficient process of granting construction
permits and to have reached this goal through a participatory process, we
need to make sure that all the FIAS recommendations in this area are being
implemented and that we continue to request feedback from regulated bodies
to evaluate performance of regulators; and that we take satisfactory action in
reported cases of corruption.
Prime Minister                          A.B&rziq
-67-



LATVIA PSALII: POLICY REFORMS PROGRAM MATRIX:
GOVERNMENT'S POLICY OBJECTIVES AND IMPLEMENTATION BENCHMARKS
A:l. OBJECTIVE:! CORRECTING THE MACRO-IMBALANCES     --I
Issue: Latvia experienced a   Government has reached        The Borrower has maintained   Maintenance of an appropriate  An appropriate macroeconomic
recession and the re-emergence  agreement with the IMF on a  an appropriate macro-economic  macroeconomicframework     framework that allows for robust
of macro-imbalances during    new Stand-By agreement in     policyframework, consistent                                 and sustainable growth and
most of 1999.                 December 1999.                with the objective of the                                   which reduces the volatility to
Program, as determined on the                               external shocks.
basis of indicators agreed to by
the Borrower and the Bank.
A.2. OBJECTIVE: ENSURING FINANCIAL VIABILITY OF THE PENSION SYSTEM
Issue: Lack of funded pension  Saeima has adopted legislation  The Saeima has adopted     All three tiers of the pension  An equitable and financially
system, 1998 changes to the   to create the second tier of the  amendments to the Law on State  system are in place.   sustainable pension system.
ay    pension law and policy measures  pension system.            Pensions, removing aft                                      Pension system deficit is
oo    compromised system financial                                prohibitions to working and                                 eliminated, savings have
sustainability.               Ministry of Finance has prepared  taking a pension, improving the                         increased, and equality of
acceptable implementation plan  equity ef the pension system,                             treatment within age cohorts has
for second tier.              curbing early retirement, and                               improved.
regulating future indexation.
Ministry of Welfare has prepared
plan for refotr ring PAYGO    The Ministry of Welfare has
pension system, including     reviewed the progress of the
communication plan, technical  implementation ofithe second
analysis of refoem options.   tier pension system and has
developed regulations to permit
private asset management.
B.1: OBLJECTIVE: REDUCING RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR CORRUPTION IN GOVERNMENT AND THE JUDICIARY
Issue: The Govemment of                                     The Saeima has adopted the    Anticorruption. Satisfactory  'Me institutional structure for
Latvia is committed to                                      "Law an condtion cuddin       progress on the inplementa inon  corruption prevention is
undertaking policy and                                      Prevention Bureau" with the   of the an     a-corruption program,  strengthened.
institutional reforms to reduce                             authority to: (a) defect and  as measuredfor example by. 
coffuption. This process was                                resolve exv ante cases of conflict                          The Anticoffuption Program is  
started under the leadership of                             of interest; (b) detect and   (i) Appointment of the head of  effectively implementedr
the Corruption Prevention                                   evaluate possible cases of    the Corruption Prevention                                      r
Council (CPC). In the initial                               co nflict of illicit en rich men t; (c)  Bureau (CPB); adoption of a4
phase the CPC required                                      monitor corruption and        structure that serves-functions;  
lBenchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included irn the loan a'greemcnt of PSAL I. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL It. Benchmarks for PSAL 111, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



additional staff and resources to                           corruption prevention in public  allocation of sufficient human,
be able to execute its program.                             sector bodies; (d) advise the  physical, and financial
During the first year of the PSAL                           Cabinet of Ministers, individual  resources to the CPB; adoption
program it became clear that                                ministers, and other heads of  of performance indicators;
their was a need to combine the                             public sector bodies, on methods  implementation of the
different prevention activities                             to strengthen corruption      mechanism to monitor and
into one body e.g. the prevention                           prevention; (e) prepare and   report on changes in
activities of the CPC and the                               evaluate legislation related to  corruption; the start up of
conflict of interest activities of                          corruption prevention; and (  operations; and
the ACU (see below) as well as                              educate officials and the public
to investigative corruption cases.                          about corruption prevention.  (ii) Transfer of responsibUity to
the CPB' for investigating
possible cases of conflict of
interest and ilicit enrichment
and supervision of thefinances
of political parties.
Issue: Prevention program     An Executive Head of the      The CPC Secretariat has       The CPB publishes (i) changes to  Process for monitoring and
Secretariat to the CPC has been  published changes to and   and progress in the           reporting on progress in
appointed, with adequate staff  progress in the implementation  implementation of the    anticorruption to the public is
positions andfunds, including  of the Corruption Prevention  Corruption Prevention Plan and  created.
alsofor public education.     Plan                          (ii) measures of changes in
corruption in the public sector.  Public awareness of how to
CPC has published, and will                                                              report cases of corruption is
continue on a quarterly basis, the                          The CPB ensures that the criteria  increased.
status of implementation of its                            used to establish public sector
Anticorruption Program.                                    agencies and annually review
their performance include criteria
CPC has established a                                      related to the prevention of
mechanism to monitor and report                             corruption. These may include:
on changes in corruption in the                             (i) ex ante clearance of the
public sector, based at least                              agency head for conflict of
partly on feedback from the                                interest; (ii) implementation of
public; baseline statistics are                            arrangements to ensure public
collected.                                                 dissemination of agency
information, in compliance with
the Petitions Act and the Law on
Information Access; (iii)
implementation of appropriate
complaint and appeals
mechanisms, in compliance with
the Law on Administrative
Appeals; (iv) implementation of
appropriate procedures and
safeguards in the agency's
procurement system.
Issue: impact assessment to              _                  The new independent financial  The CPB monitors that the risks  Draft Legal acts are reviewed
Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL I. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL 11. Benchmarks for PSAL 111, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



corrution Itshead has adopted  assessed.
an ctin lantoimplement the
reconmmendations.             'Me CPB implements procedures
for officials and the public to
The CPC Secretariat has        report on cases of corruption.
reviewed seven key draft laws or  These procedures include a
regulations with regard to their  system for monitoring the
vulnerability to corruption.   disposition of these complaints.
Issue: involvement of Civil                                   The Latvian Privatization     The LPA continues to invite a  Civil Society is actively involved
Society in monitoring                                         Agency has invited a qualified  qualified NGO to monitor key  in monitoring the privatization
privatization and large                                       NGO to monitor key            privatizations.                process and large procurements.
procurements.                                                 privatizations.
The Latvian Procurement Office
invites a qualified NGO to
_____________________________ monitor large procurements.
Issue: The Anticorruption Unit  AU has developed the set of   A system has been designed that  The CPB (or the SRS ACU)    The understanding of public
(AU) in the State Revenue      documents and procedures to   requires politicians, ministers,  establishes procedures for  officials of conflict of interest
Service (SRS) is responsible for  effectively identify conflict of  state secretaries, procurement  clearing ex ante politicians,  prohibitions and other ethics
evaluating declarations of     interest and cases of illicit  officials, and other officials in  ministers, and other senior  standards is increased.
0     incomes and assets of public   enrichment, including: (i)     positions especially at risk of  officials for possible conflicts of
I    officials to identify cases of (i)  adequate forms for declaration of  conflict of interest to declare and  interest. These include  The Corruption Prevention Law
conflict of interest and (ii) illicit  income and assets; (ii) a draft  resolve their conflicts upon  procedures for: (i) recusing an  is effectively implemented.
enrichment. At present, the    manual and curriculum for      assumption of their office and  official from deciding on issues
procedures used by the         training SRS staff in processing  prior to realization of any  for which s/he has a conflict,
Anticorruption Unit are not    and assessment of declarations;  conflict of interest. All other  especially when assets
sufficiently developed to fulfill  (iii) a draft manual and   officials would be required to  potentially creating conflicts
this task. A complementary     curriculum for training of the  declare and resolve their    cannot be sold or divested upon
system that requires public    public sector employees in     conflicts prior to any realization  the official's assumption of
officials to report potential  situations of conflict of interest.  of a conflict of interest.  office and (ii) sale or divestiture
conflicts as they arise to their                              Appropriate sanctions for failure  upon the official's assumption of
superiors or to a coordinating  Annual declarations submitted  to do so would be imposed.   office of assets potentially
body such as the AU is presently  by the President of the State,                            creating conflicts.
not in place.                  Prime Minister, Deputy Prime
Ministers, ministers and                                     The CPB (or the SRS ACU)
parliamentary secretaries are                                clears all state secretaries for
published on an annual basis.                                possible conflicts of interest.
The CPB (or the SRS ACU)
prepares to clear all politicians,                               e
ministers, and other senior                                     UQ
officials that are elected or                                    w
appointed as a consequence of                                    O.,
the October 2002 elections.
Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL I. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL 11. Benchmarks for PSAL 111, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



developed and inmplemented.
Issue: Education on Corruption                              Th  colof Public              CPB (oT CPC Secretariat in
prevention.                                                 Adminishtraion (SoPA) has     collaboration with the SRS
prepared a draft manual and   ACU) conducts specialized
curriculum for training public  workshops on conflict of interest
sector employees in conflict of  for (i) Parliamentarians; (ii)
interest.                     Ministers; (iii) State Secretaries
and Deputy State Secretaries;
The SoPA has trained its      (iv) SRS staff; (v) judges, and
instructors to teach conflict of  (vi) other important groups.
interest. The SoPA will train all
new public officials in conflict of  The School of Public
interest.                     Administration trains all new
public and existing public
The CPC Secretariat has       officials in conflict of interest;
conducted a workshop with: (i)  conflict of interest training
judges; (ii) prosecutors; and (iii)  continues to be mandatory for all
police on enforcement of the  new public officials.
Law on Corruption Prevention.
The CPB (or SPC Secretariat)
The CPC Secretariat has       continues to provide civic
provided civic education on   education on corruption
.___________________________  corruption prevention.        prevention.
Issue: Within the current system                            Law on "Political Party      New disclosure forms are used  Disclosure and accountability of
of political party finance, no                              Financing" has been adopted,  which require more detailed  political party finances have been
clear authority or responsibility                           which stipulates: (i) more    information on the revenues and  improved and made available to
for checking the submissions of                             precise disclosure procedures to  expenditures of political parties.  the public.
political parties is established.                           report on election campaign
Nor do the submissions contain                              expenditures; (ii) assignment of  The unit responsible for
all needed information or does                              monitoring political party   reviewing the accuracy and
the Government have the                                     finances to independent body  completeness of financial
institutional capability to                                                              disclosures adopts and publishes
evaluate and analyze the                                                                 procedures for auditing the
submissions.                                                                             disclosures.
The disclosures of political
parties are published on a timely
basis.
Small grants are provided to                                  (IQ
qualified NGOs to monitor                                      4 t
political party financing.                                        CD 
Issue: Despite the introduction  The Minister of Justice has  MoJ has adopted a Medium term  Satisfactory progress in the  The judicial system operates
of an initial set ofjudicial  issued an instruction to provide  strategic action plan for the  implementation of the medium-  more efficiently and effectively,
lBenchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL 1. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL 11. Benchmarks for PSAL 111, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



institutions among the most    and litigants in criminal and civil increase efficiency, (ii) to  example by:            Public confidence in the
corrupt and inefficient public  cases, specifically requiring: (i)  strengthen inc-entives, (iii)                      judiciary is increased.
institutions in the country.  all opposing parties to be    guarantee indcpendence, (iv)  (i0) Publication on a semiannual
Additional reformns are needed to  represented in any contacts with  enhance transparency and  basis of agreed performance
reduce both corruption and the  judges (reform of ex-parte  openness, and (v) collect     indicators by" the Ministry of
perception of corruption in the  contact) and (ii) if all parties  feedback from the public  Justice, for example, on public
Judiciary.                    cannot be represented then the                              confidence in the judiciary; and
communications to be recorded;  The Ministry of Justice has
further a system for monitoring  published, on an annual basis,  (ii) Implementation of a time-
implementation of this procedure  statistics on changes in its  bound action plan by the
is designed.                  performance.                  Ministry of Justicefor
strengthening its monitoring of
Minister of Justice has issued an  MoJ has conducted a review of  commercial cases,
instruction mandating an element  its system for monitoring the  administrative cases, andpublic
of randomization in assignment  performance of courts and   confidence in thejudiciary.
of judges to handle court cases  judges, with an aim to strengthen
where appropriate; a system for  its monitoring of (i) commercial  Dissemination of the medium-
monitoring implementation of  cases; (ii) administrative cases;  term strategy for judicial reform
this procedure is designed.   (iii) public confidence in the  to the public
judiciary; it has discussed the
The Minister of Justice has   review's recommendations in a  The Ministry of Justice begins to
issued an instruction, which  workshop that includes the   implement its action plan for
requires all court decisions and  participation ofjudges; a draft  integrating justice informnation
rulings to be published with a  instrument for monitoring public  systems.
system of cumulative indexing.  confidence has been prepared.
The publications are stored                                 The Ministry of Justice has
electronically and are available  The Ministry of Justice has  prepared a time-bound plan for:
to the public at low cost in those  prepared a time-bound plan for  (i) integrating the information
courts that are computerized.  integrating information systems  systems of the procuracy and
of lower courts and Supreme   courts and (ii) adding
The Minister of Justice has   Court                        information about court
issued an instruction providing                             execution into this system.
for (i) training ofjudges and  All renovated or new court
prosecutors in new laws prior to  buildings meet the demands of  All renovated or new court
their enactment; (ii) appropriate  ex-parte communication reforms.  buildings meet the demands of
budget allocation to the Judicial                           ex-parte communication reforms.
Training Center to comply with  An appropriate system of
the requirement referred to   cumulative indexing has been  All court decisions and rulings
above. The Judicial Training  developed for criminal cases.  are available electronically at
Center prepares a three-year                                low cost.                                                      Q
training plan.
An appropriate system of                                          CD 
cumulative indexing has been
_____________________________  ______________________________   _________________________   developed  for  civil  cases.developed  for   civil   cases.
'Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL 1. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL 11. Bench;aarks for PSAL 111, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in boldand italic are triggers.



_i                                      i_l_=E20
B.2* OBJECTIVE: STRENGTHEN TRANSPARENCY AND REPORTING OF THE MINISTRIES AND BODIES SUBORDINATED, SUPERVISED OR-MANAGED BY THEM -
Issue: There is no clearly    The Cabinet of Ministers has  The Salema has adopted the   Satisfactory implementation of  Institutional Framework of
defined institutional framework  adopted concept for the Law On  Law "On the Framework of  the Administrative Procedure  public administration is well
of public administration, or  the Institutional Framework for  Publc Administration      Law, as measuredfor example   defined with clearly stated
legislative framework for     Public Administration, which                               by publcation, on an annual   accountability mechanisms and
operations of public agencies.  defines the kinds of public  The Saiema has adopted the  basis, of a statistical report on  financial and policy reporting
The latter has lead to an ad-hoc  institutions within the public  "Law on Public Sector   appeals and users' satisfaction  requirements for various types of
creation of agencies without  sector.                       Agencies".                    with the procedures; and     public institutions, which leads
adequate legal basis and                                                                                               to improvements in their
accountability mechanisms. The  Law on the Institutional    The Borrower, through its    All agencies have been reviewed  financial performance and
work has been commenced to    Frameworkfor Public           Cabinet of Ministers has      and the Cabinet makes decision  program performance indicators.
prepare conceptual issues for the  Administration has been  adopted a regulation          on their status.
govemment on: (i) structure of  submitted to Saeima.       identifying: (a) criteria for the
the public administration and (ii)                          role and responsibilities of each  At least 25 existing non-profit
executive agencies.           Concept for the Law On Public  public agency; (b) the      state enterprises are converted
Sector Agencies has been      mechanism through which a    into agencies to make them
adopted by the Cabinet of    public agency can be created;  consistent with the Law on
Ministers, which defines: (i)  and (c) criteria on which to  Public Sector Agencies which
types of agencies; (ii) regulations  decide which agencies to divest,  defines a transparent,
for the formation of agencies of                           accountable, andfinancial
various types; (iii) procedure for  The Cabinet of Ministers has  management regimefor all
agency approval; (iv) procedure  agreed on a list of public sector  public sector agencies.
to ensure openness; (v)       organizations that will be
mechanisms for accounting     reviewed according to the law on
mechanisms and financial      Public Sector Agencies.
control, including requirements
for reports; (vi) adequate
provisions for transitions; and
(vii) state liability conditions.
Law on Public Sector Agencies
has been submitted to Saeima.
Cabinet of Ministers has
adopted measure to impose a
Moratorium on the creation on
agencies till Saeima passes Law
on Public Sector Agencies.
Issue: Law on Openness of     Cabinet of Minister has adopted  The Borrower through its  A time-bound action Plan is   Easy and simple access to
Information and regulations has  implementing regulationsfor  Ministry of Justice has assigned  adopted which: (i) establishes  govemment documents is
been passed. However,         the Law on Openness of        the task to provide guidance and  capacity in public-sector bodies  ensured through effective  OQ
implementation of the law is  Information, stipulating (i)  coordinate the implementation  to respond to public requests for  operation of the Law on
weak because of lack of:      institutional arrangements for  of the Petitions Act and the Law  information; (ii) report on  Openness of Information.    0  D
(i) weak capacity of ministries to  ensuring easy access to public  on Openness of Information to  compliance with the law; and
respond to public requests    infomnation, including        the data inspection unit.    (iii) educate public on           .__           _    _
Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL 1. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL 11. Benchmarks for PSAL III, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



theF aslllual IsFrulu:s vzannual reports ofstn                              poubectso.
bodies; (ii) mechanisms for
individuals to appeal denials of                             Significant progress in
information; and (iii) a system                              implementation of action plan is
for monitoring the compliance of                             achieved in all Ministries.
state bodies with the law.                                   Secretariat of MoPSR has
submitted to the CoM
regulations on the structure of
annual reports of public sector
bodies; regulations are adopted
by the CoM.
Annual reports of public-sector
bodies include informnation on:
(i) rights of public to
infortnation; (ii) procedures for
public to access information; (iii)
measures of fulfillment of public
requests for infornation;
inclusion of this information in
the annual reports is
institutionalized.
Issue: 'Me Cabinet of Ministers                               Surveys are conducted by LDA  The Secretariat of the MoPSR   All public institutions provide
adopted an instruction on Annual                              and reports published on private  monitors the publication of  reports on their performance to
Public Reports. The ministries                                sector and public's opinion on  annual reports by public sector  the public.
prepared and circulated the very                             the performance of various     bodies; MoF monitors financial
first public annual reports in                               institutions.                  reporting requirements.
1999; in year 2000 all public
institutions including regulators                                                           All regulatory bodies have
and inspectorates must prepare                                                              implemented reporting
the annual report. Reporting                                                                requirements which are posted
requirements must be clear and                                                              on the intemet.
useful for public for all kinds of
public entities.                                                                                                                                         .
Issue: The current                                            The Saiema has adopted the    Action plan to bring all public  Effective operation of the new
Administrative Procedure Law                                  Administrative Procedure Law  sector institutions into       Administrative Procedure Law
does not meet requirements of a                               (APL), which protects the      compliance with this law is   provides a fair framework for
democratic state. A new draft                                individual's right to appeal   adopted.                       relations between a citizen and
Administrative Procedure Law is                               decisions of the state; this law                             the state.
in the Saeima. The Cabinet of                                 defines: (i) the procedure for  Progress is made in
Ministers has postponed the                                   appealing administrative      implementing this action plan.                                  aw 
reviewing of this draft until                                 decisions to decision making           o__
Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL 1. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL 11. Benchmarks for PSAL 111, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



adoption Law of the Institutional                         institutions; (ii) the procedure for  A system for monitoring
Framework of Public                                        appealing administrative     compliance with the APL law is
Administration.                                            decisions to the Judiciary; and  designed; this system will
(iii) adequate enforcement of  include publication, on an annual
decisions taken during appeals  basis, of a statistical report on
process.                     appeals and users' satisfaction
with the procedures.
The Borrower has adopted a
time-bound planfor the
implementation of the
Administrative Procedure Law
and identified one staff in each
ministry, which has been
assigned the responsibilityfor
imnplementing this law is that
Cl:: OBJECTIVE: STREAMLINE THE STRUCTURE OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR AND INCREASE ITS ADMINISTRATIVE EFFICIENCY AND TRANSPARENCY
Issue: The Public Sector Reform  The Secretariat of MoPSR has  The CoM has adopted an   The Secretariat of MoPSR      Depth and scope of the public
program is substantial,       prepared a program (blueprint)  updated and revised Medium  publishes in the official Gazette,  sector reform process is
demanding, and will need to be  with attached to it an action plan  Term Public Sector Reform  on a semiannual basis, progress  increased.
sustained over a period of years.  to implement public     Program, which includes clear  in the implementation of its
Greater resources than are    administration reform, which  assignment of responsibilities  reform program.           Quality of public service
currently allocated will be   includes: (i) clear assignment of  and deadlines for the                                delivery is increased.
required to coordinate and    responsibilities for the design  implementation of specific
support implementation of the  and coordination of the specific  Public Sector reforms.
reforms throughout the public  elements of the reform program;
administration structures, as well  (ii) an allocation of staff and  The CoM has established a
as to monitor results.        budgetary resources          Public Sector Reform
commensurate with this       Coordinating Council, to be
assignment of responsibilities.  supported by the Secretariat of
the MoPSR.
The Secretariat of MoPSR has
designed a mechanism to      The Borrower, through its
monitor and report to the Cabinet  Cabinet of Ministers has
of Ministers and public on   adopted a time-bound action
changes in public sector     plan for the implementation of
management performance.      the Medium Term Public Sector
Reform Program in all line
ministries.
Public Sector Reform                                                                        o 
Coordinating Council has                                                                      CD
established a mechanism to                                                                  I .
monitor and report on the
'Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL 1. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL 11. Benchmarks for PSAL 111, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



_, -~ ';'.-*'^'t;'. '  s  .BENCH tARKS 'I`       M   WTI                    _-
Bt E_f rF O'E1   E  f     "P-S!i(Ul: 'l%fiireb'2000. '  ! 7,PSZL01I-.;AQUg -20002  PS,      ifl "Fall -2603"            o * 
implementation of the Medium
Term Public Sector Reform
Program.
Secretariat of MoPSR monitors  The Borrower through its   'Me CoM has adopted a time-   The structure and functions of
Issue: The functions and      the implementation of the action  MoPSR has designed and   bound plan by which remaining  Govemment meet demands of
structure of ministries do not  plan of reorganization of the  piloted a methodologyfor  ministries will be subjected to a  modem market economy and EU
fully meet the demands of a   Ministry of Agriculture to ensure  conductingfundamental  fundamental review and how the  pre-accession.
European market economy. To   that the action plan meets the  reviews which are to be used to  review will be used thereafter.
address this problem, BPAR    need to: (i) integrate into the EU;  support the 2003 budget
commissioned development of a  (ii) bring the Ministry into  preparation in selected    Implementation of the key
methodology for functional and  conformity with future laws on  ministries and shall inter alia,  recommendations of
structural reviews of ministries.  the Institutional Framework for  include: (a) a methodology to  fundamental reviews has
This methodology was used to  Public Administration and on  review and identify priority  progressed without undue delay.
conduct functional review of the  Public Sector Agencies; (iii)  policies and programs, and (b)
Ministry of Agriculture early  establish clear lines of    a memorandum of
1999; the recommendations of  accountability and reporting; and  understanding between the
the review were only partly   (iv) strengthen systems for  central agencies and the line
implemented. Also, the        measuring the substantive and  ministries to be reviewed
remaining ministries need to be  financial performance of bodies  regarding what will be done
reviewed.                     managed by the ministry.     with the results of the review
Secretariat of MoPSR has      The Borrower has allocated
completed the interviews for the  resources to support the
in depth functional review of the  fundamental reviews, and to
Ministry of Economy.         train at least three staff in the
fundamental review
Secretariat of MoPSR has     methodology.
launched the in depth review of
the functions of the Ministry of
Justice.                                . ._                           .   _.
C.2: OBJECTIVE: STRENGTHEN HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT BY IMPROVING INCENTIVES FOR RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION OF HIGH QUALITY STAFF
Issue: Currently the pay system  Cabinet of Ministers has  The Borrower, through its     The Cabinet of Ministers has  The comprehensive pay system
in the public sector is relies  adopted the conceptfor a broad-  Ministry of Finance has  adopted regulation on pay   for public sector begins to
heavily on bonus payments and  banded, transparent uniform  prepared: (i) a draft regulation  reform, including a detailed  provide a fair, transparent and
management contracts. This   pay scale in the public sector,  on pay reform; and (ii)   schedulefor its implementation  equitable reward for the work
system does not ensure a      which rewards merit and      estimates of the cost of its  and actual implementation has  ensuring retention of highly
transparent and equitable reward  minimizes discretionary and ad  implementation. The CoM has:  started               skilled personnel.
for the work. A new and       hoc bonuses and which includes:  (a) reviewed the draft and cost
comprehensive pay system for  (i) job descriptions at a sufficient  estimates; (b) accepted the draft  The database on public sector  The Government is able to
the entire public sector is needed  level of dis-aggregation; (ii)  in principle; and (c) adopted a  employment, pay, and functions  monitor and evaluate the impact  go
to improve motivation for highly  criteria to be used in defining  schedule requiring the MoF to  is established, with regular  of the pay system.
qualified staff to work in public  pay for specific public sector  provide the CoM by October 8,  procedures for updating the  o_|
Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL I, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL I. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL II. Benchmarks for PSAL 1II, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



*., $  |       J ENERMAR NC- HNN K;K
,aBJE(TsiWlgtEl!!  Ni311t;gZc.52000[lg -iSLliMAu2'0-02T--:4s-8       APSAeHIl-. Fal1-20031-"' ;-:.i 4FIT       1
institutions and to ensure    wide jobs; (iii) levels of pay that  2002 detailed optionsfor the  inforrnation.
transparency and equitability.  are competitive with the private  phasing in of the pay reform.
sector for basic professions and
competitive with a medium term  Ministry of Finance has
budget framework; (iv) census  conducted a survey of the
and methodology for a statistical  existing pay structure.
database on pay, employment,
and functions in the public sector  A workshop has been conducted
to be used in planning and    for state secretaries and deputy
control of pay and staff      state secretaries to discuss pay
development (see above); (v)  concept.
compatibility with Civil Service
development; and (vi) principles
for transiting to the new system.
Ministry of Finance has designed
the methodology for a survey of
the existing structure of pay, to
be used to design the new pay
system.
l    Issue: A new Law on Civil     The Cabinet of Ministers has  Procedure for performance    Performance reviews are       A professional and loyal cadre of
Service is needed to ensure   submitted the Law on Civil   reviews has been established.  institutionalized.           civil servants is developed,
development of professional and  Service to Saeima, which is                                                            which is able to provide
loyal civil servants. The Cabinet  harmonized with the reform of  Training of managers in  Yearly reports on the       leadership in the efficient
of Ministers adopted the Concept  comprehensive public sector pay  conducting performance reviews  development of the Civil Service  delivery of public services.
On Civil Service Development in  system and improving the system  has been conducted.    are institutionalized.
1998. The draft law On Civil  of incentives for public servants
Service has been developed and  through: (i) performance reviews  First round of perfortnance
harmonized with               administered by superiors, (ii)  reviews has been completed.
SIGMA/OECD, the World Bank    performance of the servants in
conformity with ethic principles.  The MoPSR Secretariat has
prepared and submitted
secondary legislation to the
Cabinet for implementation of
the Civil Service Law by January
I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   2001 .
C.3: IMPROVING PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
C.3.a:. Objective.: Develop'transparent and unlfled'public accounts
Issue: The budget is not      1. Comprehensiveness of the                                                              The budget is more
comprehensive. Resource       budget.                                                                                  comprehensive by the inclusion
management outside of the                                                                                              of all budget-financed            _
budget promotes               1. 1. Bringing Budget Financed  MoF has brought all BFIs in the                          institutions in the Annual Budget  o 
mismanagement, fiscal         Institutions (BFI) into the   budget of 2002.                                            Law.
expansion and build-up of     Budget.
Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL 1. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL II. Benchmarks for PSAL Ill, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



contingent liabilities.                                                                                               Activities of public institutions
Saeima has passed amendments  MoF ensures that new agencies                             are well defined and accounted
to the Law on Budget and      open accounts only with                                   for, reducing opacity in resource
Financial Management         Treasury                                                   management.
(LBFM) bringing aU accounts
of the BPI into the Budget,
introducing a requirementfor
state institutions to submit
annual audited reports to the
State Treasury as of 2001 and
gives powers to the Ministry of
Finance to require and define
reports on the operations of all
subordinate enterprises.
MoF has issued instructions to
BFIs and commercial banks that
all accounts in commercial banks
should be transferred to the
Treasury.
oo                                 The Treasury has proof that BFI,
corresponding to at least 30/o of
state budget, currently holding
accounts in commercial banks,
hold accounts exclusively with
Treasury.
MoF has prepared principles for
budget 2001 preparation for all
BFIs to be brought back into
budget, including
revenue/expenditure
classification.
1.2. Establishing Central register
for institutions under the
management of ministries
Ministries and central public
Cabinet of Ministers has adopted  institutions submit financial
regulation for the financial  reports of business companies
reporting of agencies.       managed by them to the State
Treasury in compliance with the
procedure set forth in the Cabinet                                                         o
of Ministers regulation Ill1.
Benchmarks in hold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL 1. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL 11. Benchmarks for PSAL III, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



QW                'uL
MoF has agreed to submit
monitoring of financial
indicators for the previous
financial year to the Cabinet of
Ministers on an annual basis by
September 30.
2. Transparency of budget.   Issues related to implementation  Issues related to implementation
(Issues related to moratorium on  of the Public Sector Agency  of the Public Sector Agency
creation of new agencies and  Law: See B.2                 Law: See B.2
Public Sector Agency Law: See
B.2)
3. Fungibility of the budget.  The Cabinet of Ministers has  As part of the ministry ceiling
agreed to no new (i) earmarking  setting process, the Cabinet of
of taxes and (ii) creation of own  Ministers has identified the
revenue for special budgets.  policies and programs financed
by special budgets, which are to
be reviewed until next year's
ceiling setting process.
Ministries submit their policy
and programs reviews to CoM,
and CoM uses the results in
setting the budget priorities
._________________________   __________________________ statem ent  for  2003.
C.3.b: Objective: strengthen accountability-for-the use of resources
2. Strengthening Financial   The SAO has developed         All Central Governments'
External Audit function.     methodology to estimate budget  accounts are audited on a yearly
coverage of audit plan.      basis.
The State Audit Office (SAO)
has prepared and adopted an  The audit plan for 2001       Audit Reports are published.
action plan to strengthen its  encompasses an estimated
functioning as to provide full  minimum 20 percent of basic and
financial attestation audit.  special budgets.
SAO has submitted a program of  SAO has undertaken audit of
audits for 2000 to the Parliament  accounting/reporting standards
for information.             of the Central Budget
institutions' under SAO purview
(based on FTI report).                                                                      e
The action plan to strengthen
State Audit functions on
financial management has been
implemented.                                                                                 n
Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL 1. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL 11. Benchmarks for PSAL 111, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



7J~~4~~4j41 ~~~  ~~  ~. ~~      ~~                            ..~~... "-O.-CONEI'-A               *'
~OBJE     GTjVEJISSUgE    T-, ',Y PSWAL: 1  a iRb 'O0O                       0                PSALb-lOOOr;  1        ' ;  ,  -1_; v . i
Budget for extemal audit
increased to meet requirements
for increase in number of
deliverable outputs
Publication of the number of: (i)
audit reports to Saeima; (ii)
formal interpellations by Saiema
to the Executive; (iii) corrective
measures adopted; (iv) corrective
measures taken.
3. Audit of BFIs              The Government has agreed to
exercise its right as owner of
Review of 1998 accounts and   BFIs to require audits from
financial audit reports of budget-  agencies. The Govemment also
financed institutions by extemal  agrees on sanctions to be taken
accountants has started.      against non-compliant BFIs.
Conclusions of the report to be
submitted to Cabinet.         MoF has reported to the CoM on
the compliance of all BFIs with
regulations on financial
a)          .                                                     statements.
0                                   4. Strengthening the Internal  MoF has presented an Annual  MoF reports to Cabinet on
audit function                compiled audit report to Cabinet.  implementation of the annual
compiled reports'
Intemal audit strategic plan for 3  Cabinet of Ministers has  recommendations.
years has been adopted in MoF,  discussed compiled reports
Ministries of Transport,      submitted by MoF and Intemal  All ministries perform intemal
Environment and Agriculture   Audit Council, and has taken a  audit based on agreed plan ad
focusing in particular on the  decision on the report's     corrective actions taken if
following audit functions:    recommendations, has taken a  necessary.
systems and compliance audits.  decision on follow up
mechanisms and will follow the  Extension of peer review role by
Realistic annual plans with   implementation of decisions.  the MoF to all ministries.
monitorable outputs, e.g. # audit
performed, has been approved in  Intemal audits as per 2000  Pilot intemal audit units
above line ministries.        agreement in pilot ministries  evaluated by Audit Council.
performed and corrective actions
Procedures have been prepared  taken. Monitoring of actions by
by the MoF for the follow up and  the intemal audit department and
monitoring of compiled audits'  regular reporting to State
recommendations in above      secretary.
ministries.
Agreement on 2001 audit plan                                                                   CD
Ministry of Finance has       for all ministries.                                                                           )
developed methodology for peer
Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL 1. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL 11. Benchmarks for PSAL 111, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



P.  ': ~~~h.  0       i~~S MI:Au ug    02     ~     ~     ~     i   i0                    .
review.                      Establishment of Audit Council
I                          with defined responsibilities.
More heads of audit units have
been appointed.              Implementation of peer review
role by the MoF in pilot
ministries has continued.
5. Strengthen procurement    Saeima has adopted the law on  Strengthen the bid protest  To provide leadership in the
management                   public procurement           mechanism and introduce       improvement of the economy,
administrative review of bidders'  efficiency and transparency of
Secondary regulations has been  protest.                  the public procurement. System.
brought more closely in line with
internationally recognized best  Draft standard pre-qualification
practice.                    and bidding documents for
goods, civil works and consultant
An autonomous Procurement    services, including specific
Supervision Bureau has been  prohibitions against fraudulent
established                  and corrupt activities
Introduce an administrative
procedure for debarring firms
and individuals who engage in
fraudulent and corrupt activities
oo                                                                                            related to public procurement.
C.3.c: Objective:;Development of performance-orientedibudgets In line ministries 
Issue: Budgets are divorced   1. General Reforms           The Borrower, through its                                  Link between polices and
from policies and performance.  Minister of Finance has agreed to  Cabinet of Ministers has issued                   resources established, and
organize a discussion with   itsfirst annual budget priority                            commitment by line ministries
Cabinet of Ministers on detailed  statement, including: (a) an                          deliver on services.
PEM reform measures under the  overaUlfiscal strategy; (b)
budget priorities; and (c)                                 Allocations reflect more
criteria for annual budget                                 government's priorities.
priority setting to be used
starting with the budgetfor the                            Policies are increasingly binding.
year 2003.
CoM has agreed to limit the
submission of new policy
initiatives to the budget process.
To support this process policy
planning guidelines have been
developed for policymaking,
strategic planning, and
submission of new initiatives to
the budget process.
2. Public Expenditure Reviews. I__
Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL 1. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
It, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL 11. Benchmarks for PSAL 111, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



(PER) focusing on assessing (i)  Expenditure Reviews to be  responsibilities have been
allocations according to      undertaken.                   assigned within MoF,
priorities; (ii) efficiency and (iii)                       Chancellery and the line
effectiveness of expenditure in                             ministries.
Justice and Agriculture
Public Expenditure Reviews
completed in those ministries as
identified with the expenditure
review program.
The CoM has adopted an
expenditure review program and
responsibilities have been
assigned within MoF,
Chancellery and the line
ministries.
3. Strategic planning         A Memorandum of               The Govemment issues the
Understanding for the         regulations for Strategic
implementation of the pilot with  Planning.
respect to strategic planning in
the Ministry of Agriculture has  Pilot ministries prepared
been developed and signed by  strategic plans and annual
the Chancellery, MoF, MoAg.   performance programs which are
used as the basis of their budget
Draft Guidelines have been    request.
developed for Strategic Planning
and the Ministry of Agriculture  The Govemment identifies a
has been selected to pilot these  second group of ministries to
guidelines.                   prepare strategic plans during
2002-2003.
Develop action plan for
strengthening evaluation
function of MoF and pilot line
ministries.,
C.3.d: 3Objective:. development:of almedium-term budget
Issue: The yearly focus of the  The Cabinet has agreed to   The 2002 Budget includes      Cabinet of Ministers established  Medium-term outlook for
budget does not allow focus on  discuss (i) a draftfiscal strategy  explanations of forecasting  a Fiscal Policy Consultative  Government fiscal operations  C
policies and leads to instability in  statement and (ii) medium-term  assumptions and fiscal risks and  Board to consider the medium  induces more predictability.
policies and unpredictability of  macro/fiscalframework     provides financing information  term fiscal plan (MTFP) of the
resources.                    submitted by the Ministry of  together with an analysis of the  MoF
Finance.                      sources of financing.
'Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL L. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL 11. Benchmarks for PSAL 111, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



Fiscal framework is based on  CoM has issued the methodology
aggregate deficit target and  guidelines for medium term
constraints on financing basic  budget planning.
budget lifted.
CoM has issued the Medium
term Fiscal Policy Statement.
Issue: The budget process is  The Cabinet of Ministers has  Revised Cabinet Regulation No.                             The Budget process is geared
open-ended and disjointed; ; the  decided that the Cabinet  160 adopted by Cabinet of                                  towards transparency and policy
lack of output-based control by  Regulation (#160) will be  Ministers.                                                 choices.
the central agencies invites  amended to respect the
unaccountable behavior and   following principles: (i) aft new
inefficiencies.               policy proposals by line
ministries to Cabinet must be
accompanied by offsetting
measures; and (ii) in orderfor
the proposal to be submitted to
Cabinet of Ministers, fiscal costs
of these proposals and offsetting
measures must be prepared by
line ministriesfor 3 years; (iii)
and reviewed by MoFfor
technical accuracy of coss.
C.3.e::ObJective: Enhance Local AccountabilIty
Issue: Local accountability is  MoF has commenced work to   To allow for more stability and  Prepare evaluation of the  Provide information to central
necessary for high-quality local  develop improved financial  predictability in the equalization  financial management system  govemment and local citizens.
decisions and successful      accounting and reporting      mechanism, the MoF has        and reports on the scope of the
decentralization.             procedures for local          reformed the system of       training system (number of staff
govemments.                   expenditure needs calculation.  trained per municipality).
Promote client surveys and    Publish reports on local
opinion polls and other forms of  govemment financial situation.
community feedback as input
into budget and investment
decisions.
'C.4: OBJECTIVE: IMPROVE TARGETING OF SOCIAL-ASSISTANCE AS A MEANS'OF, PREVENTING NEGATIVE CONSEQUENCES TO HOUSEHOLDS OF POVERTY BY IMPLEMENTING A
NATIONAL SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROVIDING INCOME SUPPORT TOTHE LOWEST,INCOME HOUSEHOLDS
Issue: The current social     Cabinet of Ministers has      The Saeima has completed its  Satisfactory implementation of  Social assistance system cost-
assistance framework does not  adopted concept paper with  first reading of the new Law On  the new social assistance  effectively prevents poverty, and
effectively reach the poor in  implementatdon plan, to      Social services and Social   system, as measuredfor        supports inclusion of vulnerable
Latvia; multiple financing   implement a national means-    Assistance, which providesfor  example by the Saeima adopting  groups.
sources do not encourage      tested social assistance beneft  the nadonwide implementadon  the Law on Social Services annd
efficient use of resources (money  targeted at the very poorest  of national means tested social  policy measures to:  The client receives cost effective
does not follow the client).  households.                   assistance benefit and improves                            social care services according to  " x
the organization and          (i) Improve the targeting of the  her or his needs             v c
I Agreement has been reached that  administration of the social  neediest; and           I
Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL 1. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL 11. Benchmarks for PSAL 111, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



t, '            .  '    .' 3                          s-t   1  , BENCHNtARKS'  X    -.     -
- {OBIECTIVEtISSUE'-       E'-.:PSAL :11 larch 2000       A  PSAL II: August 2002       .1 PSALtIII:WFall 2003    '                C' !TONiE
implementation begins in some  assistance system.
municipalities in 2000 after                                 (ii) Strengthening the incentive
Cabinet of Ministers has adopted                             and monitoring systems in
the concept.                                                place.
An action plan for placing
gatekeeping and referral
decisions and financing
responsibilities for social care
and social assistance with one
level of government has been
prepared and has been adopted
by CoM. Ministry of Welfare
prepares analysis (based on the
results of the fitst six months) of
the nationwide implementation
of national means tested social
assistance benefit
co___
ID.1. OBJECTiVE: EMOVE MOST OP THE SIGNIFICANT REMAININGICOMMERCIAL STATE-FIRMS TO THE PRIVATE SECTOR TO PROMOTE OPEN MARKETS, RESTRUCTURING AND
INDUSTRIAL GROWTH WHILE FOSTERING THE DEVELOPMENT OF STABLE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURES AND ADHERING TO FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPALS FOR ITS-REGULATORY
INTERVENTIONS   -
Regulatory Issue: The          Cabinet of Ministers has      Subsidiary legislation, needed  Establishment of the basic   Establishment of an effective,
Government needs to commit to  submitted the Law On Public  for the Public Utiities        elements of accounting        well-focused, and flexible post-
regulatory stability and should  Services Regulators to the  Commission to operate, has    regulation.                   privatization govemance
not intervene in those areas were  Saeima.                   been approved by the Cabinet of                             structure that serves the public
market forces are likely to bring                            Ministers.                    (i) Timely adoption by the    interest, mimics the market to the
good results and the govemment  The Cabinet of Ministers has                               Public UtUities Commission of  maximum extent possible, and
should adhere to fundamental  adopted concepts for the market  The Borrower, through the   gas, eledricity and           stipulates a preference for
principles by which it guides its  structure in electricity and  Public Utilities Commission  telecommunications tariffs  market-like policy solutions and
interventions.                telecommunications as a basis  Board, has adopted the Strategy  according to transparent,  detenninations.
for proceeding with           of the Public Utilities       published methodologies
privatization/divestiture in these  Commission ("Strategy and
sectors and for reaching      Basic Principles"), published it  (ii) Adoption by the Public
agreement with existing       in the official newspaper      Utilities Commission of rules
investors in Lattelekom.      Latvijas Vestnesis and the    governing access to the
website www.sPrkrzovlv        transmission grid in electricity
and bottleneck networkfacilities
Interministerial working group is  Inter-ministerial working group  in telecommunications.
developing an action plan for  has elaborated and implemented                                                               (IQ
strengthening the regulatory  a technical assistance plan to  The above-mentioned tariffs and
framework and capacity in each  enhance regulatory capacity.  rules need to strike a proper                                  0
sub-sector (energy, telecom, post                            balance between promoting
and railway services) and for  Agreement has been reached on  competition and ensuring the
XBenchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL 1. Benchmarks in bold and italic in c6lumn PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL 11. Benchmarks for PSAL IlI, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



establishing, staffing and     a proposal for the structure,  financial viability in the
organizing the Public Services  organization, and operational  operation of bottleneck facilities;
Regulatory Council in         arrangement for a unified      and, in the case of electricity,
accordance with agreed sectoral  regulatory agency.          facilitate trade between the three
policies and sectoral and multi-                             Baltic countries."
sectoral laws (e.g. on Public  The full five people Commission
Services Regulators and on     Board was appointed in time to
telecommunication submitted to  start its operations on October 1,
the Saeima and existing law on  2001 and an efficient
energy as amended if necessary).  management structure and
The action plan includes the  incentives have been prepared
transfer of the statutory     for implementation.
responsibilities of the                                      The Commission has undertaken
Telecommunications Tariff     The Commission has reviewed    a review of the skill mix of its
Council, the current regulatory  and revised, as needed, the -  staff, identified priorities for new
functions of the Ministry of  budget for the first year of   staffing and developed a
Transport and the energy       operation.                    comprehensive training program.
regulation board, as well as the
regulators of postal and railway  The Public Utilities Commission
services to the Public Services  has published its first Annual
00                                    Regulatory Council in a manner  Report
LJ                                    and on a timetable which ensures
the most effective build up of
regulatory capacity.
Ministry of Economy (co-signed
by Ministry of Transport) has
issued a decree establishing an
inter-ministerial working group
to prepare an action plan for the
establishment of the multi-
sectoral regulatory agency and
for strengthening the regulatory
regime in each sub-sector;
electricity, gas,
telecommunication, post and
railway services.
Privatization Issue Latvia must  Cabinet of Ministers has     The Borrower has in the case of  Satisfactory implementation and
use best commercial practices  decided to use reputed        the privatization of LASCO,    completion of the remaining
(use of reputed international  international 'investment     made a public offering of 32   privatization agenda, as
investment banks and legal     banks/advisors'for divestiture  percent of the sharesfor     measured by the preparing and
firms) to privatize successfully  of Government ownership    privatization vouchers and sold  offeringfor sale of Ventspils
these important state companies  Lattelekom, Latvenergo,     51 percent of the shares to    Nafta (VN) and, as soon as                                       c
such that market prices are    Ventspils Nafta, Latvijas Gaze  strategic andfinancial investors  litigation is over, the
obtained. Regulation must be   and Latvian Shipping if       for cash through the Riga Stock  government's shares in                                         r
put in place, where required, to  necessary and as agreed with  Exchange at a price approved  Lattelekom.
Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL 1. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL II. Benchmarks for PSAL III, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



s w=ze s.^.1NM*    -~IC.S.:tv MO  ar NIT VW Al               r                           --                -  V. 1N
protect the public interest and  the World Bank            by the Board of the Latvian
encourage competition.                                     Privatization Agency. The     For each of VN and Lattelekom,
Ministry of Economy has       balance of the shares will go to  the government will use an
provided the World Bank with a  employees and the State    international investment bank,
planfor when and for what     Pension Fund by December 31,  hired though internadonal
purpose to use internadonal   2002.                        competitive tender, and will
'investment banks/advisors' and                            offerfor sale its shares in an
how these wiU be procured.    The Borrower has submitted the  open, competitive manner and
first regular report and      at a fair price to the
Cabinet of Ministers has     evaluation by the international  government, the process to be
decided to ensure that the   investment bankfor Ventspils  attested toas fair, open and
Latvian Privatization Agency  Nafta to the Bank for review.  competitive by the investment
wiU use best commercial                                    bank.,
practice as agreed with the
World Bank (1) to procure
international 'investment
banks/advisors' if necessary and
as agreed with the Bank and (2)
to privatize/divest its interest in
thefive enterprises.
Cabinet of Ministers has
approved fundingfor
international 'investment
banks/advisors' up to an
amount of Lats 3millionfor LPA
in the expenditure plan of the
Privadzation Fund.                                                   _
D.2: ENERGY SECTOR: REGULATION ANDPRIVATIZATION
Issue: Develop a Governance   Cabinet of Ministers has     CoM has decreased the criteria  Energy Sector. In the electricity  Establishment of a policy and
structure for the electricity  approved and announced with  for Qualified Customers from  sector:                     regulatory framework and
supply industry and privatize the  respect to Latvenergo to  100 GWh to 40 GWh.                                      industry structure that is
industry.                     establish the Daugava Hydro                               (i) Reduction of the annual   consistent with EU directives
Plants, Riga Combined Heat    The Cabinet of Ministers has  dectricity consumption      and will continue to permit a
and Power Plants, transmission  approved a detailed        threshold for Qualified      smooth transition to liberalized
and (one or more) distribution  restructuring program for  Customers to 20 GWh;         electricity supply industry and an
units as subsidiaries. In    Latvenergo which meets the EU                              effective regulatory structure that
addition, the Government wiUl  Directive 96/92/EC concerning  (U)The Transmission System  is consistent with the changing
divest 49% of its ownership in  common rules for the internal  Operator is licensed and  technological characteristics of
the Riga Combined Heat and    market in electricity.       operates as a fully independent  the industry.                oQ
Plants and privatize non-core                              entity with an independent                                    _
business activities.                                       Board of Directors.;
The Ministry of Economy has
prepared a market model which  (iii) The Government has
meets EU Directives on market  adopted electricity market model
Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL 1. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL 11. Benchmarks for PSAL III, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



= DMatjck l M I                        _                             _2302n
liberalization,for consideration  and has revised Energy
by the Government.           legislation that will meet EU
Directivesfor electricity market
The Borrower has established  liberalization.
the Transmission System
Operator as a separate legal  The Transmission System
entity with its own management,  Operator will publish balancing
staff and separate accounts.
The Ministry of Economy has
prepared and submitted an
amendment to the Energy Law to
replace the current double-tariff
scheme for CHP plants, wind
and small hydros. The
amendmends have been
approved by the Parliament. The
Transmission System Operator
has published power system
information outlined in Chapter
3 of the Grid Code.
co    Issue: Develop a well                                      The Cabinet of Ministers has  Adjust the accounts of vertically  Establishment of a policy and
-1    functioning Governance                                     approved a concept with a time  integrated company Latvijas  regulatory framework that is
structure for the Gas sector and                           bound action plan of gas market  Gaze in order to provide for  consistent with EU directives
and privatize the industry.                                liberalization in line with EU  higher degree of transparency  and will continue to permit a
Gas Directive 98/30, dealing, in  through separation of accounting  smooth transition to liberalized
particular, with third party  systems for storage,         gas supply industry and an
access, and elaborating on gas  transmission, distribution, and  effective regulatory structure that
pricing methodologies that deal  sales of natural gas, as well as  is consistent with the changing
with separation of storage,  separate non-core activities of  technological characteristics of
transmission, distribution and  Latvijas Gaze company.     the industry.
sales costs and tariffs
Establish third party access to
transmission and distribution
networks.
D3: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SEcToR:;REGULATioN AND PRIvATzATiON
Issue: The creation of a pro-  Cabinet of ministers has    Liberalization of infrastructure  Complete tariff re-balancing.  The development of a modem
competitive regulatory        submitted Tele-communications  and establishment of competition                         telecommunications market that
framework for the            law to Saeima after           rules that are transparent and  Establishment of methodology  is responsive to consumer and
telecommunications sector that is  amendments to the current draft  non-discriminatory.  for estimating costs that    business needs and the         (I
consistent with the sector's  to require an independent                                 approximates the best practice  requirements of the global 
rapidly changing technological  regulator to be established by  Establishment and publication of  methods that are used in OECD  information economy and  o 
and economic characteristics and  2001 the latest, and to allow the  procedures for deciding what  countries.         internet-based commerce and in   - x
where the Government privatizes  telecommunications regulator to  services to regulate                                which the govemment no longer
its remaining shares in the sector  be part of the Public Services  I_I Definition of universal service               has any significant ownership
Benchmarks in bold and italic in colunm PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL 1. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL 11. Benchmarks for PSAL III, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



1__  -_______          _   _    |   =        --          MI               I        ,    ,j                               I_      _OJ|_     _   _   S3
by using best commercial       Regulatory Council starting   Medium-term regulatory agenda  and the establishment of a   interest or control, except
practices.                     2001.                         in the telecommunications sector  competitively neutral mechanism  exercised by the independent
defined and work in the       to support universal service  regulator.
The Cabinet of Ministers has  following areas will have      goals.
provided LPA with a mandate to  commenced: (a) generating a
negotiate exclusivity agreement  reasonable, realistic approach to  Establishment of rules for
and related issues with private  price regulation, including the  allocating the spectrum.
investors in Lattelekom based on  identification of cost, technical
the concept for a competitive  and other data, which the
market structure adopted (see  regulated entities will be
also D. 1.).                  compelled to fumish,
determination of the cost of
capital, depreciation, and other
needed elements of regulatory
accounts; (b) establishment of
an interconnection framework
defining the terms and conditions
of access to bottleneck
telecommunications facilities; (c)
classification of services; and (e)
development of a numbering
plan.
Legislation approved defining:
(i) the list of telecomnmunications
services to be regulated by the
Regulatory Commission; (ii) a
clear demarcation of
responsibilities between the MoT
and the Regulatory Commission
on issues related to
telecommunications policy; and
(iii) the rules for licensing.
D.4: OBJECTIVE: ACHIEVEMENT OFA UNIFORM APPROACH TO SUPERVISION OF-FINANCE-AND CAPITAL MARKETS AND STRENGTHENING-OF FINANCIAL SUPERVISION SYSTEM WITH
PARTICULAR EMPHASIS ON NON-BRANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS       .
The current regulatory structure  Cabinet of Ministers has   Formal establishment of the   Program in place for          A robust and efficient financial
does not fully accommodate the  submitted the Law on Unified  FCMC by July 1, 2001.        strengthening supervision,    regulatory regime that has
growth of non-bank financial   Financial Supervision Agency                                especially for the NBFI's.    adopted a seamless approach to
institutions in Latvia. The   to Saeina                      Appointment of the Council of                               financial supervision.
Government is introducing a new                              the FCMC.                     Corruption vulnerability review
law establishing an integrated  Work has been initiated that is to                         completed.
financial regulatory body.    result in an action plan (i) for  Organizational form for the
However, there is a need to:  strengthening supervision of   FCMC established along        The establishment of a
strengthen the supervision of  financial institutions like the  functional lines.          Consultative Council.                                            0
non-bank financial institutions;  pension funds, investment                                                                                                A X
ensure that the new agency is  companies, leasing firms and the  Draft budget in place for the  Establishment of a Memorandum
Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL 1. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL H. Benchmarks for PSAL 111, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



independent, and; that its   securities market; (ii) for the  FCMC.                     of Understanding between the
formation does not undermine  structure, organization, and                              FCMC on the one hand and the
the credibility of banking    operational arrangement for a  Agreement on a training program  BOL and (MoF) on the other.
supervision.                  unified regulatory agency; and  with the Swedish FSA, to be
(iii) that set out the change  established by June 30 by I)
management program covering  Letter from FCMC to Swedish
the arrangements of transition  FSA and 2) joint letter from
from the current regulatory  FCMC & Swedish FSA to SIDA
structure to the new unified  for a two phase program 1)
regulatory agency, including  matching of people an needs
development of communication  identification during summer
strategy.                    2001 and 2) follow-up with
specific training in areas
identified during 2001-2003
WB assisted training program for
corporate govemance for
insurance industry, insider
register and intemet trading of
securities concluded by June 30,
oo                                                                2001  .
'VO   *D.5: OBJECTIvE: STRENGTHEN LEGAL AND REGULATORYPROCESS, TO ENSURE MORE EFFICIENT REGULATION AND REDUCE THE COSTS TO THE PUBLIC SECTORCREATED BY
ABUSE OF REGULATORY POWER.       -
Issue: Neither the Ministry of  MoJ has completed a draft  The Borrower, through its    All line ministries implement  Laws and regulations will go
Finance nor the Ministry of   manualfor drafting laws and  Cabinet of Ministers, has    adequate regulatory impact    through a thorough assessment
Justice has been able to establish  regulations based on good  approved methodologyfor legal  assessment procedures.  before being adopted; as a
a rigorous process for evaluating  legislative techniques.  and regulatory impact analysis.                           consequence they will be more
regulatory proposals; various                                                           A computerized database       effectively implemented.
national programs have not    The Ministry of Justice has  MoJ trains staff of other agencies  containing all normative acts,
succeeded in coordinating the  created a special unit to  in the application of the drafting  with appropriate indexing, is  Public participation in legal
development of new regulations,  implement a unified system for  manual.                produced.                     drafting is increased.
or in ensuring consistency in the  drafting laws and regulations,
regulations across sectors, or  with the capacity to train  MoJ evaluates draft laws and
even within the same sector.  officials in other ministries in  regulations based on its
This has resulted in the adoption  drafting techniques.    standards described in its
of regulations that are difficult or                       drafting manual.
costly to implement.          MoJ has created a
comprehensive definition of  Government staff is trained in
"normative acts" and ensures  legal and regulatory impact
that all draft normnative acts are  assessment.                                                                          I
submitted to it prior to adoption.                                                                                      m
The Ministry of Finance has                                                                                              i
prepared a draft manual for                                                                                               x
assessing the budgetary
consequences of draft laws and
Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL 1. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL 11. Benchmarks for PSAL 111, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



Administration has developed a
.                     ~~~~~~~~training program in impact
analysis.
Issue: State inspectorates that  Secretariat of MoPSR has     MoF and Secretariat of MoPSR   Secretariat of MoPSR designs  Inspection process will be clear
enforce regulations have made  drafted and Cabinet has adopted  draft new procedures for the  the structure and evaluation  and accountable; inspected
little effort to create clarity and  instructions (including internal  collection of fines eliminating  criteria of the annual reporting  bodies will have a larger voice
consistency in their enforcement  regulations and guidelinesfor  payment through personal   requirements for inspectorates  regarding the mechanics of
procedures. Lack of transparency  inspections) for inspections,  contact, and requiring fine  and discusses these with     process.
and accountability in inspections  which include: (i) rulesfor  payment only through bank   inspectorates.
procedures creates excessive   ensuring transparency of       transfer.                                                    Implementation of laws and
costs for Government and       inspection procedures; (ii) rules                             Performance measures and      regulations is monitored to
business. In addition, the     for documenting violations; (iii)  New rules and procedures in  reporting requirements are  determine whether their impact
Govemment currently does not   separation of inspectionsfrom  conformity with inspection     implemented in all inspectorates.  is as envisioned.
employ effective reporting     collection of fnes; (iii) appeal  guidelines are implemented in
requirements for regulatory    procedures; and (iv)           the all inspectorates by       Experience with implementation
bodies. Annual reporting       arrangementsfor ensuring       September 2000.               of new rules and procedures in
requirement for all state bodies  feedback from inspected bodies.                           all inspecting agencies is
have recently been adopted but                                The School of Public          reviewed.
instructions on requirements for  A horizontal coordination   Administration trains inspection
content of reports have not been  council for inspectorates with  personnel in (i) the application of  Feedback from inspected bodies
sufficiently clear or thorough,  rotating presidency has been set  new rules and procedures; (ii)  is used in the performance
substantially decreasing the   up to steer the implementation  effective treatment of clients;  evaluations of inspectors and
quality and usefulness of the  the reform of inspections.    (iii) conflict resolution; and (iv)  inspectorates.
reports. Procedures for utilizing                             performance management.
the reports in evaluation of   Workshop on inspections reform                                Satisfactory action on reported
performance of regulatory bodies  has been conducted.                                       cases of corruption in inspections
are absent.                                                                                 is taken.
Two inspectorates have been
selected to pilot new inspections                            Performance measures are
guidelines.                                                  defined for 50% of the
inspectorates.
A training program for
inspectorates has been prepared,                             Adjusted reporting requirements
which focuses on: (i) application                             are implemented in 50% of the
of new rules and procedures; (ii)                            inspectorates.
effective treatment of clients;
(iii) conflict resolution; and (iv)                          Annual reports of inspectorates
performance measurement.                                     for 2002 take into account new                                   w
requirements for structure of
annual reports.
Issue: Regulatory coordination  Workshop on regulatory reform  Reports are published        Time for processing permits is  Granting of construction permits  o  C
is especially problematic in the  has been conducted.         summarizing feedback from real  reduced.                     operates smoothly and
area of construction, which                                   estate developers, architects and                            efficiently.
1 Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL 1, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL I. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL 11. Benchmarks-for PSAL 111, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



R-EjT;E2!.-SI lE3I _P-SRTM!Ql       Wi-Irch20001M   jl PSI'AL'LDllBuFustw2002Bf>'.    S0LiIISFl1203tjF+P          O,     T   C0lE
involves several different     LDA has developed             building contractors on: (i)  Feedback from regulated bodies
regulatory bodies.             recommendations on            efficiency of permit process; (ii)  is used in evaluating   Participatory approach is used to
management, use and design of  prevalence of corruption; (iii)  performance of regulators and  strramline permit process.
Working Group already         transparent regulations, appeals,  understanding of their rights and  organizations.
established to prepare         public participation, regulatory  responsibilities.
recommendations by October 1,  control over natural monopolies,                            Consultative mechanisms are
1999 for reform of regulation of  infrastructure finance, and policy  Municipal Board disseminates  used in other areas where permits
construction.                  on historic structures and    information on new regulations  are required.
districts.                    and procedural practices
'Benchmarks in bold and itulic in column PSAL I, March 2000, were loan conditions included in the loan agreement of PSAL 1. Benchmarks in bold and italic in column PSAL
11, August 2002, are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of PSAL 11. Benchmarks for PSAL 111, Fall 2003, are indicative; those in bold and italic are triggers.



-         _          _                  _ _                       _    _ _ _ _ _ _   _   _ _ _ _   _ =._ ._  =_____.__:___ ______,U__
-             Actual     .   Eslimated   .       -      Projecte
WndicAtive scexario             1999       20m.m                                      20=4       200
Total debS ous       an         2657 a
disbursed (TDO) (ill. U$-^) 2657           3I186      4070       439,      4837       5724       6359
Net Disbursemcts' (mill. -US$)   266        -24       -.36       213        260        346        362
Total debt service ;TX)
(mnilll. USs) .  .              . 283      265        Ra81       183        215        428       357
DeDo nlni~ debt stevle minc1it4s (%)}..r                                ', 
. DO/XGS       .86.4                      $6.5       11,7.9     118.0     11,8.4     128.5   .   30 .9
TDO/&DP                        39.9       44.6       53.9       53.8      54.3       58.8       59.9
: S/Xfl        CiS        . -   9.2        7.i        5.2   .     4.?     ; 5.3       9.6        7.3
J1BiRD expes1i indioa ors (e/%..)
JlRD DS/publicdebtsseviee      21.7       16.9      292        31.6       29.0     -1.3        '13.9
- Preenrred creditor DSfpublic
-  de"b service                58.6       68.8       7{X8      74,7       67.0       82.4       23.5
-IBRDDS/XGS           -     .  0.6        0.5        0.2        0.5       0.5        0.7  .     0,8
Share of IBRD portfolio        0.1        0.1        0.1                             0.1        01



Operaims PWofIW1 (IRDnDA and Gmnts
AS Of 0M. 01002
aosd PrqeS       11
T.W DO d (A)            2OD
.1 Mh h- b- r.      0 05
TOW D0o,d (COsd)       27 46
cr Wh rzn rwfP      365cs
T.W Obo..0 (Adk- *  )  30848
ad ~ hO f -  pW8    3807
ToW U.1SoW (AdWO)      2573
TotW UnAd-d (G.W)      &00
T.W U.M,ud (AdS  k-d)  28.73
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bc .                                 _
Ae Fc                                                                                                                                    D    haec  nsww
m FSA, _d Tnd MCd
SVPWraWWo Rating                               bkdna AocurM In US$8 MM81)anumi
Prs ID                 p    N8rilohnT                       P         Fbd Ya            IBRD          IDA       GRANT         ancei. Uadsb.   OrId Fn RaVd
P049172                EDUC IMPROVMT      S                 KS          1999            311                                        568219      -68
P058520                HEALTH             S                 S           1999             12                                        4 537948     8
P074410                HOUSING UL         S                 S          2002             2 03                                          2 03
P06S476                UEPAJASW MGUT      S                 S           2001            222                                        Z188671     0-8 0317638
P040663                SOUD WASTE MGMT    S                 S           1998            7 98                                       4.0356878   3.4 0 136678
P045718                SJD WASTE MGMT(GES                               1998                                     612               0987999     1 1
P056858                STATE REVENUE SERVIC S               S           1999              5                                         2.14307    2.9 0034277
w    P0368O7                WELFARE REFORM     S                  S          1997             181                                       6.247844     7.6
Osi nral                                                               Resul            784                      512               2871743    152 0467492
a SUanod  _ cklrigtto datonus aBWMdsbuS I  tlUtodots a rpqiBdatPpz



Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 6/30/2002
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                                   Disbursed
FY Approvw Company   Loan       Equity    Quasi     Partic     Loan      Equity     Quasi     Partic
2001 LinstowVai        17          0         8        35          0         0          0         0
Total Portfolio:         17         0          8        35          0         0         0          0



26-
24'
2:2                                           5 produced by
P
Unit of The wodd Bank.
LA                                                                            g     lors clenomincdions                              s
TVIA                                                              =    ,i:,,                                                   4z'
ROADS                                                                        I in         on
donot im*  thO Par'of
,PZB.,,kG,-,,P,-nYi-dg-'
0     SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES
an #, legalstolvs d ony tarritarx, or
I     CAPYTAL
NAT ONA!                                                            any endcsement or acceptance o
AT                                                            such boundaries.                                               A
*IVEgs
50         80 KILOMETEkS'                                                   ESTONIA
0
Xihnu'
25         50 MILES                                                 To Lelle
58'-                                                                                                      Tartu
G u                             0
Ruhnu                                   B tnieku
Alo'lclo  1,,ur
Soar Q 0                                Ezers
Kolk       R    9  0                       Strenci                             ITo hk
C-3                                                                                                                          RUSSIAN
Va mieto                 0
OLimbali                        10 sne                 FEDERATION
6si
Ventspit                            M'Orsrogs
u ae
G
To Ostrov
de                                   iguida
ar                                                                                             0
Idig     TU                                                                          b onas
jurma                                                          ers
rsaVa I
Scildus                                    0                                                         TO
do                                                                                                             velikire
e gava
Do                                                       bpils                                 Luk,
Liepa
El jo
Eze
To Maieikiai
TO Poneveiys                                                                    56'
To ioujiai
To Klaip6do D
56'                                                                                           emunelis
TO
Polotsk
A                     To Uteno
L     T  H     U   A   N    I                               Z                  -AL
BELARU          28-
26,
24'                    L
221
to    20*









IMAGING
Report No.: P        7556   LV
Type:      PR



