Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7145 LV 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan) 
 
between  
 
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 30, 2002 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7145 LV 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 2002, between  REPUBLIC OF LATVIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
February 16, 2000, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof;  
(B) 
by a Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and the Bank, 
dated March 17, 2000, the Bank made a loan to the Borrower of an amount equal to 
$40,410,000 in support of the first phase of the Program (the First Phase of the Program); 
(C) 
the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated August 6, 2002, 
describing actions taken and progress made under the First Phase of the Program and 
declaring the Borrower’s continued commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(D) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Second Phase of the Program) to the 
satisfaction of the Bank and has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework 
satisfactory to the Bank;  
(E) 
the Borrower may elect to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan provided 
for in Article II of this Agreement at any time within three years from the date of this 
Agreement (or any longer period that the Bank may establish as provided in Section 2.03 
of this Agreement) when a financing need arises, subject to the provision of Section 2.02 
(c) of this Agreement;   
 
(F) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Second Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by 
making the Loan in one tranche as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the second part of the program, referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made”; 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
“Each withdrawal of an amount from the Loan Account shall be made in 
the Loan Currency of such amount.  The Bank, at the request and acting 
as an agent of the Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency 
withdrawn from the Loan Account the currency or currencies of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.” 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the second part of the program referred to in the Preamble 
to the Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank 
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and 
Page  4
-
3
-
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and  
 9.08. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Cabinet of Ministers” means the Cabinet of Ministers of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
“CPB” means the Corruption Prevention Bureau established by the 
Borrower under the Law on Corruption Prevention Bureau;  
(c) 
 “CPC” means the Corruption Prevention Council established by the 
Borrower and led by the Minister of Justice and any successor thereto; 
(d) 
“Coordinating Council” means the council established by the Cabinet of 
Ministers to monitor the implementation of the Medium Term Public Sector Reform 
Program (hereinafter defined); 
(e) 
“Corruption Prevention Plan” means the action plan approved by the 
Borrower’s on May 15, 2001, for prevention of corruption; 
(f ) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
(g) 
“LASCO” means Joint Stock Company A/S “Latvijas Kugnieciba” 
(Latvia Shipping Company), registered in the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of 
Latvia on September 13, 1991, Registration number 000302110, and any successor 
thereto; 
(h) 
“Latvenergo” means State Joint Stock Company VAS “Latvenergo” 
registered in the Register of Enterprises of Republic of Latvia on October 8, 1991, 
Registration number 000303294, and any successor thereto; 
(i) 
“Latvijas Gas” means Public Joint Stock Company A/S “Latvijas Gaze” 
registered in the Register of Enterprises of Republic of Latvia on March 22, 1991, 
Registration number 000300064, and any successor thereto; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(j) 
“Maturity Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the date on 
which the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is established, such date 
being the first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which said 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn; 
(k) 
“Medium Term Public Sector Reform Program” means the programme 
approved by the Borrower’s on July 20, 2001, for medium term public sector reform;  
(l) 
“Public Utilities Commission” means the institution established by the 
Borrower under Law on Public Services Regulators, and any successor thereto; 
(m) 
“Saeima” means the Borrower’s parliament, and any successor thereto; 
and 
(n) 
“Ventspils Nafta” means Public Joint Stock Company A/S “Ventspils 
Nafta” registered in the Register of Enterprises of Republic of Latvia on May 9, 1991, 
Registration number 000300309, and any successor thereto. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
 Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty 
million, two-hundred ten thousand dollars ($20,210,000) as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the 
Loan Account in support of the Second Part of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in the Bank of Latvia, a 
deposit account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account. Withdrawals from the Loan Account, except those for the payment of the front-
end fee set forth in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Deposit Account.   
Page  6
-
5
-
(c)  
The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw any amount from the Loan 
Account for deposit in the Deposit Account only after the Bank shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, that:
 
(i) the 
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower continues to be consistent with the 
objectives of the Program; and (ii) the Borrower continues to adhere to the Program and 
its actions and policies remain consistent with the objectives of the Program.  
(d) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2005, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of any amount withdrawn form the Loan Account for deposit in the Deposit 
Account. On the date of such withdrawal, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of one percent (1%) per annum on the unwithdrawn principal amount. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15, the first such installment to be payable on the 13th Interest 
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date and the last such installment to be 
payable on the 26th Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date. Each 
Page  7
-
6
-
installment except for the last one shall be equal to 7.14% of said Disbursed Amount.  
The last installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of said Disbursed 
Amount. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
one or more installments of principal of any Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the 
provisions of such paragraph (a), be payable after February 15, 2017, or such later date 
that the Bank may establish by notice to the Borrower, in case of a postponement of the 
Closing Date, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such 
installments.  
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for the 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date. 
 
(d) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this 
Section, in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed 
Amount to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency 
that shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date  occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
Section 2.10.  The Minister of Finance, or any person he or she shall designate in 
writing, are hereby designated to take any action required or permitted to be taken on 
behalf of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V 
of the General Conditions.  
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01.   (a)  The Borrower undertakes to implement the Program with due 
diligence to ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are put into 
effect.  
(b)  
The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the consistency of the Borrower’s macroeconomic 
framework with the objectives of the Program, and the continued adherence of the 
Borrower to the Program. 
(c) 
The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
(d)  
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(e) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  9
-
8
-
Se
ction 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  10
-
9
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
1
Smilsu Street 
 
Riga, LV-1919 
 
Republic of Latvia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
371 7095 503 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Colombia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA 
 
By 
/s/  Gundars Berzins 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Roger W. Grawe 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
Page  13
-
12
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
6. 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in Recital (D) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
1. 
The Borrower has maintained an appropriate macro-economic policy 
framework, consistent with the objective of the Program, as determined on the basis of 
indicators agreed to by the Borrower and the Bank. 
2. 
The Saeima has adopted amendments to the Law on State Pensions, 
removing all prohibitions to working and taking a pension, improving the equity of the  
pension system, curbing early retirement, and regulating future indexation.   
3. 
The Saiema has adopted the Law on the Corruption Prevention Bureau, - 
with the authority to: (a) detect and resolve 
ex ante
 cases of conflict of interest; (b) 
detect and evaluate possible cases of illicit enrichment; (c) monitor corruption and 
corruption prevention in public sector bodies; (d) advise the Cabinet of Ministers, 
individual ministers, and other heads of public sector bodies, on methods to strengthen 
corruption prevention; (e) prepare and evaluate legislation related to corruption 
prevention; and (f) educate officials and the public about corruption prevention. 
4. 
The CPC Secretariat has published changes to and progress in the 
implementation of  the Corruption Prevention Plan.    
5. 
The Saiema has adopted the 
Law On the Framework of Public 
Administration.
 
6. 
The Saiema has adopted the 
Law on Public Sector Agencies.
 
7. 
The Borrower, through its Cabinet of Ministers, has adopted a regulation 
identifying: (a) criteria for the role and responsibilities of each public agency; (b) the 
mechanism through which a public agency can be created; and (c) criteria on which to 
decide which agencies to divest. 
8. 
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Justice, has assigned the task to 
provide guidance and coordinate the implementation of the Petitions Act and the Law 
on
Openness of Information
 to the data inspection unit of the Ministry of Justice. 
9. 
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Justice has adopted a time-bound 
action plan for the implementation of the Administrative Procedure Law and identified 
Page  16
-
15
-
one staff member within each ministry which has been assigned the responsibility to 
secure the implementation of this law in its ministry. 
10. 
The Borrower, through its Cabinet of Ministers, has adopted a time-
bound action plan for the implementation of the Medium Term Public Sector Reform 
Program in all line ministries. 
 
11. 
The Borrower through its Secretariat of Minister for Special Assignment 
on Public Administration Reforms has designed and piloted a methodology for 
conducting fundamental reviews which are to be used to support the 2003 budget 
preparation in selected ministries and shall, 
inter alia
,
include: (i) a methodology to 
review and identify priority policies and programs; and (ii) a memorandum of 
understanding between the central agencies and the line ministries regarding what will be 
done with the results of the review. 
 
12. 
The Borrower, through its Secretariat of Minister for Special Assignment 
on Public Administration Reform, has allocated resources to support the fundamental 
reviews referred to in paragraph 11 of this Schedule, and to train at least three 
government staff in the fundamental review methodology.  
 
13. 
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance (MoF), has prepared a 
draft regulation on pay reform, and estimates of the cost of its implementation, and the 
Cabinet of Ministers (COM) has: (a) reviewed the draft and cost estimates; (b) accepted 
the draft in principle; and (c) adopted a schedule requiring the MoF to provide the CoM 
by October 8, 2002, detailed options for the phasing in of the pay reform. 
 
14. 
The Borrower, through its Cabinet of Ministers, has issued its first 
annual budget priority statement, including: (a) an overall fiscal strategy; (b) budget 
priorities; and (c) criteria for annual budget priority setting to be used starting with the 
budget for the year 2003. 
 
15. 
The Saeima has completed its first reading of the new Law on social 
services and social assistance, which provides for the nationwide implementation of 
national means tested social assistance benefit and improves the organization and 
administration of the social assistance system.  
 
16. 
Subsidiary legislation, needed for the Public Utilities Commission to 
operate, has been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. 
 
17. 
The Borrower, through the Public Utilities Commission Board, has 
adopted the strategy for the Public Utilities Commission (“Strategy and Basic 
Page  17
-
16
-
Principles”) and published it in the official newspaper Latvijas Vestnesis and the website, 
http://www.sprk.gov.lv/.  
 
18. 
The Borrower has in the case of the privatization of LASCO: (i) made a 
public offering of 32 percent of the shares for privatization vouchers; (ii) sold 51 percent 
of the shares to strategic and financial investors for cash through the Riga Stock 
Exchange at a price approved by the Board of the Latvian Privatization Agency; and (iii) 
agreed that the balance of the shares will go to employees and the State Pension Fund by 
December 31, 2002.  
 
19. 
The Borrower has submitted the first regular report and evaluation by the 
international investment bank for Ventspils Nafta to the Bank for review.   
 
20. 
The Borrower, through its Cabinet of Ministers, has approved a detailed 
restructuring program for Latvenergo which meets the unbundling and market opening 
requirements of the European Union Directive No. 96/92/EC concerning common rules 
for the internal market in electricity.  
 
21. 
The Borrower, through it’s Ministry of Economy, has prepared an 
electricity market model which meets EU Directives on market liberalization for its 
consideration. 
 
22. 
The Borrower, through its Cabinet of Ministers, has established the 
transmission system operator as a separate legal entity with its own management, staff 
and separate accounts. 
 
23. 
The Borrower, through it’s Cabinet of Ministers, has approved a concept 
with a time bound action plan of gas market liberalization in line with European Union 
Gas Directive No. 98/30, dealing, in particular, with third party access, and elaborating 
on gas pricing methodologies that deal with separation of storage, transmission, 
distribution and sales costs and tariffs. 
 
24. 
The Borrower, through it’s Cabinet of Ministers, has approved a 
methodology for legal and regulatory impact analysis.
 
