Document of
The World Bank
FOR O]FFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2258-PH
P:HILIPPINES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
February 20, 1979
Transportation Division
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit = Pesos (P)
US$1.00       = P 7.40 (January, 1979)
P 1.00        = US$0.135
*The exchange rate is floating; the rate used in this report is indicated above.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                          British/US equiva lent
1 meter (m)                 =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)             =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)  =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)              =  2.205 pounds (lb)
I metric ton (m ton)         =  1.1 US short tons (sh tons)
=  0.98 British long tons (lg ton)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT           Annual Average Daily Traffic
ADB            Asian Development Bank
ADT            Average Daily Traffic
BBR            Bureau of Barangay Roads of the MPH
BCM            Bureau of Construction and Maintenance of the MPH
BOT            Board of Transportation
B/C            Benefit/Cost Ratio
BPW            Bureau of Public Works of the MPWTC
EMK            Equivalent Maintenance Kilometers
EMV            Equivalent Motor Vehicle
ER             Economic Return
FYB            First Year Benefits
GNP            Gross National Product
HSF            Highway Special Fund
IATCTP         Inter-Agency Technical Committee on Transport Planning
ILO            International Labor Organization
MB             Ministry of Budget
MLGCD          Ministry of Local Government and Community Development
MPH            Ministry of Public Highways
MPWTC          Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Communications
NDP            Net Domestic Product
NEDA           National Economic and Development Authority
NTSS           National Transport System Study
PAL            Philippine Air Lines
PCMP           Progressive Car Manufacturing Program
PDAP           Provincial Development Assistance Program
PNR            Philippine National Railways
PPA            Philippine Port Authority
PPDO/MPH       Planning and Project Development Office of the MPH
PPDO/MPWTC     Planning and Project Development Office of the MPWTC
PTS            Philippine Transport Survey
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
vpd            Vehicles Per Day
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   -   December 31



PHILIPPINES              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    TRANSPORT SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
A.  General * *              *......*... . . .* . *     .* .   * * * . .   * *. . *. .*.  1
B.  Transport Subsectors  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . ...   . .   3
C.  Transport Planning and Coordination . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
II.  THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR  . . .....  .. .....  ........    6
A.  The Network . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
B.  Highway Traffic .               . . . . .  .    .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    7
C   Road Transport Industry .... .           .  .     . . . . . . . .  .  .  .    .   8
D.  Administration  .          .....   ........   . . . . . . . .            .    9
E.  Training  . . . . . . .  .         . .   .   .   .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
F.  Planni d Cnstruction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...  10
G.  Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
11.  Design and Construction              12                   ...a. *..1
I.  Maintenance .13                             ............1
J.  Past Bank Assistance in the Highway Sector  . . . . . . . . .  15
K.  Sector Lending       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
III.  THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
A. Background . . ...  . . . . . . 17
B.  Objectives of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
C.  Description of the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
D.  Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component . . . . . . . .  25
E.  Project Implementation  . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
F.  Procurement, Implementation Schedule and Right-of-Way . . . .  30
G.  Disbursements . . . .  .  ,  .    . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .  31
H.  Environmental Aspects . . , . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . .  32
IV.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .  32
A.  Main Benefits and Beneficiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
B.  Influence Areas of Project Roads  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  33
C.  Economic Analysis . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
D. Risks .               . . . . ,                                9..39
V.    AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
This report is based on the findings of Bank missions which visited the
Philippines in October/November 1977 and again in October/November 1978. The
missions were composed of Mrs. I. Bradfield (Economist) and Mr. L. Schiffman
(Engineer).
This document has a restricted distribution and rnay be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEX
1. Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
2. Procedures for the Implementation of the Road Maintenance and
Restoration Components
TABLES
1.1 Public Transport Investment Programs and Sources of Funds
1.2 Domestic Freight and Passenger Traffic Data, 1970-85
2.1 Public Highway Network, 1978
2.2 Public Highway Network, 1975-78
2.3 Motor Vehicle Statistics, FY66-77
2.4 Motor Vehicle Fuel Consumption, FY66-77
2.5 Expenditures by Highway Works and Source of Funds, FY66-77
2.6 Revenues From Highway Users, FY66-77
2.7 Expenditures on Highways by Road System, FY66-77
2.8 Highway Design Standards
2.9 Expenditures on Highway Maintenance by Road System, FY72-82
3.1 Road Maintenance Program: Physical Targets and Estimated Costs for
the National Road Network, 1977-82 - Normal Road Maintenance
3.2  Road Maintenance Program:  Physical Targets and Estimated Costs for the
National Road Network, 1977-82 - Road Restoration Program
3.3  Road Maintenance Program:  Workshop Construction and Improvement
3.4 Road Maintenance Program: Procurement of Road Maintenance Equipment
3.5 Project Composition and Cost Estimates
3.6 Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
3.7 Axle Load Control Program
3.8 Technical Assistance
3.9 Soils and Materials Testing Equipment
4.1 Traffic Volumes and Growth Rates on Project Roads
4.2 Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs and Savings on Project Roads,
1981 (Excluding Passenger's Time Savings)
4.3 Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs and Savings on Project Roads,
1981 (Including Passenger's Time Savings)
4.4 Economic Returns and Sensitivity Analyses
4.5 National Roads by Surface Type and Condition (1977)
4.6 Pavement Condition Changes without Proper Maintenance
4.7 Composite dl-Values per km for Types of Surface and Condition
4.8 Surface Condition and Life Times of Restoration Works/Composite Savings
per Vehicle
4.9 Annual and Discounted Benefits and Restoration Costs
CHARTS
IA. Ministry of Public Highways Organization Chart (1978) - World Bank
Chart 19727(a)
1B. Ministry of Public Highways Organization Chart (as of January
1979) - World Bank Chart 19727(b)
2.   Implementation Schedule - World Bank Chart 18557
MAP S
1. IBRD 12320R3 - Construction
2. IBRD 12321R2 - Other Project Elements



PHILIPPINES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. Transport Sector
A. General
1.01      In the last decade, the Philippines has made significant advances
in the transport field, far exceeding any previous ten-year period both in
terms of funds expended and results achieved. Between 1968 and 1978, the
total public transport expenditures amounted to P 14 billion (US$1.9 billion)
representing over 30% of total pubLic investment outlays. Since 1975, annual
public transport expenditures increased rapidly (although only representing
about 1.3% of GNP), with highways absorbing about 74% of the total: of the
remainder, airports received 10%, ports 9% and railways 7%. These transport
expenditures were necessary to expand and improve the hitherto neglected
transport system to meet the increased demand for movement of goods and
passengers in the seventies, which had resulted from higher income, population
and industrial and agricultural production. As a result of the increased
investment in highways, the road network expanded from 63,000 km in 1969 to
119,600 km in 1978, and, for the first time, provided access to many important
population centers in the interior of the two largest islands, Luzon in the
north and Mindanao in the south, which together comprise about 70% of the
country's land area /1 and three-qtLarters of the total 45 million population.
1.02      The 1978-81 projections for commodity flows and passenger traffic
indicate a larger increase in inter-island movements of freight and passengers
between the food deficit areas of Luzon and the agricultural surplus areas of
Mindanao than for road transport within the major islands. Accordingly, the
1979-82 investment program allocates a greater share of total public transport
expenditures to the expansion of ports and airports: 19% for ports, 14% for
airports, 9% for railways, and 58% for highways (Table 1.1). Although the
highway sector will receive a reduced share of transport investment funds,
highway expenditures are expected to increase by 8% in real terms over
the previous four-year plan period. No significant public funds are allocated
for shipping investment since it is largely financed by the private sector.
1.03      The total transport investment allocated in the 1979-82 program is
P 14,374 million (US$1,942 million); an increase of about one-third over the
previous four-year period. However, the transport share of total public
investment will decrease from the prevailing level of one-third to about 20%
of the total program; the power sector will receive an increased share of the
allocation to implement the Government's objective of reducing dependence on
imported petroleum by constructing hydro, nuclear, and geothermal power plants
as alternative sources of electrical energy.
/1 300,000 sq km.



-2-
1.04      Between 1970-76, transport developed somewhat faster than the
economy as a whole: freight and passenger movements grew by about 8% and
7% p.a. respectively, while real GNP grew by 6%. Freight and passenger
movements by inter-island shipping accounted for much of this increase, at 14%
and 8% respectively, with road transport growing at a lesser pace: 4% for
freight and 5% for passengers (Table 1.2). The average annual target growth
rate of GNP is 7.5% during 1978-85. In the light of the projected growth of
the economy, both road freight and passenger transport is expected to grow at
8% during the same period.
1.05      Road transport is the dominant mode within the two major islands
of Luzon and Mindanao, accounting for nearly 80% of passenger traffic; but
its share of total freight traffic has decreased from 57% in 1970 to 44% in
1976. Privately operated inter-island shipping, serving a population scattered
over hundreds of islands, is expected to be the largest transport mode in 1980
accounting for about 54% of freight traffic, and nearly 10% of all passenger
travel. The increased share of inter-island traffic has been due to the grow-
ing commerce between Luzon and Mindanao. Relatively short inland distances
and low traffic volumes have limited railways to a small fraction of total
traffic (Table 1.2).
1.06      The Bank Group's assistance in supporting the Government's efforts
to modernize and expand the transport sector included the First Port Loan
(290-PH) in 1961 amounting to US$8.5 million, which financed procurement of
dredging equipment. The implementation of this project was unsatisfactory due
to inefficient operation and maintenance of the dredgers: consequently, some
US$1.1 million of the loan amount was cancelled. In 1973, a Second Port Loan
(939-PH) of US$6.2 million was provided to assist the expansion of two important
ports on Mindanao, Cagayan de Oro in the north and General Santos in the
south: this project has been implemented satisfactorily. The Bank's First
Shipping Loarn (Loan 1048-PH) was provided to help modernize the old inter-
island fleet, finance technical assistance to strengthen planning and adminis-
trative capabilities in the maritime industry sector and formulate a ten-year
investment program for inter-island shipping. Implementation of this project
has been delayed by institutional problems, but most of these are now gradually
being resolved. A Second Shipping Project is under preparation and is scheduled
for appraisal in June 1979.
1.07      The highway subsector has received the bulk of the Bank's lending for
transport in the Philippines: three loans totalling US$171 million have been
made for the improvement of important sections of national highways and
connecting feeder roads, and for a country-wide maintenance organization,
including improvement of workshops and procurement of maintenance equipment,
spare parts and workshop machinery. These three highway projects have also
helped to develop the Philippine contracting industry by providing experience
in fulfilling a steadily increasing stream of contracts. Philippine consulting
firms have also gained valuable experience through their association with
foreign consultants on the design of the project roads.



1.08      In addition to increased transport expenditures and system expan-
sion, the GoverfiUeUL iiaS Lakeni major steps to improve the organizational
structure of the planning and administrative units responsible for transport.
These units have been substantially restructured since the major Government
reorganization was initiated in 1972. The resulting reorganization and
creation of various transport agencies has led to a strengthening of their
planning, implementation and operational capabilities, and to better coordin-
ation of planning responsibilities.
B. Transport Subsectors
Highways
1.09      The Government has attempted to develop a modern highway network
since 1970, but the system is still inadequate to cope with the current level
of traffic. Vehicle operating and travel costs are generally high, as only
41% of the national highways and 13% of the provincial roads are paved. Added
difficulties result from the deteriorated condition of many primary and
secondary roads due to inadequate maintenance. Details on the subsector are
given in Chapter 2.
Railways
1.10      The Government-owned Philippine National Railways (PNR) has a
network on Luzon totalling 1,060 km, of which 740 km of main line and 80 km
of branch lines and sidings are operating. Most of PNR's track was relaid
during the 1960s with Japanese aid; the rest is in very poor condition.
Management, maintenance and operations of the railways have been inadequate.
With the exception of the Bicol region, the main line is paralleled by highways
for most of its length and, as haulage distances for most commodities are
relatively short, with commodities being in small shipments, it is unlikely
that the railway will become competitive with trucks and buses.
1.11      Since PNR employs a staff of about 8,000, the Government finds it
difficult to close down unprofitable lines, and presently aims at improving
PNR operations to permit the railroad to cover at least current operating
costs. Programs under the 1971-76 Re]habilitation Plan have improved services,
and passenger and freight traffic have increased somewhat since 1973. In
1977, PNR obtained a loan from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) to rehabilitate
its Southern Line (about 450 km), which serves the area between Manila and
Legaspi. A second railway, the privately owned Panay Railway, operates an
antiquated 117 km of track on Panay Island: it is presently unsafe but
scheduled for minimum rehabilitation to permit limited service on Panay
Island.
Ports
1.12      There are 18 national ports, about 82 subports and 390 municipal
ports throughout the Philippine archipelago, plus numerous private piers and
wharves. Most long-established public ports are located where natural



- 4 -
protection is available but sedimentation problems occur in many newer ports.
More modern private piers and wharves, which handle 80-85% of export ship-
ments, are generally located to take advantage of naturally deep water. Many
public ports suffer from inadequate work areas and transit sheds, antiquated
cargo-handling facilities, disorganized port operations, and poor maintenance.
The cumulative effects of these deficiencies are congestion and confusion,
which unduly restrict the movement of cargo, slow stevedoring and ship
turn-around time. This is particularly true at ports where offshore loading
and unloading are frequent. Manila, the largest port, accounts for about 70%
of all imports, but only 5% of all exports.
1.13      In the past few years the Government has received assistance from
the ADB for improvement of port facilities at Davao and Cotabato, and from the
IBRD for the expansion of Cagayan de Oro and General Santos under the Second
Port Project (Loan 993-PH)./1 As a part of the project, the Bank supported
the establishment of the Philippine Port Authority (PPA) which was mandated to
consolidate and assume the port-related functions which had previously been
fragmented between the Bureau of Customs (BOC) and Bureau of Public Works
(BPW) in the Ministry of Public Works, Transportation, and Communications
(MPWTC). Since it became operational in 1976, PPA has taken over the manage-
ment and operation of all 18 national ports and 82 subports, expanded its
technical staff and improved accounting procedures with the assistance of
Bank-financed consultants.
1.14      The Bank's objective in the port sector is to assist the PPA in
developing a national port policy, improving management, administration, and
operations, and planning for all major national ports. A long-term port
investment program now under preparation not only aims at increasing capacity
at major ports, but also at consolidating ports of various sizes and functions
in outlying areas where improved overland mobility makes economies of scale
and efficiency possible. The selection of ports for future improvement is
being determined in the context of the traffic patterns of the total transport
network; the development potential of the hinterlands, the natural conditions
of the harbors; and the existence of over 500 private ports which handle about
two-thirds of the total loaded and unloaded cargo tonnage in the country.
Inter-Island and Coastal Shipping
1.15      Despite its status as the most important transport mode for freight,
the potential of inter-island and coastal shipping has not yet been fully
realized, mainly due to inadequate port facilities and the antiquated local
shipping fleet. There are about 480 inter-island vessels of over 100 gross
tons, and many more smaller ships. In 1976, more than 34% of the inter-island
fleet and 41% of the ocean-going fleet were 25 or more years old. Most
smaller ships are converted naval or military vessels, and over-loading and
prolonged journeys are characteristic. Although there are about 50 Philippine
inter-island vessel operators, the majority of the fleet is owned by only ten
major operators.
/1 All these ports are on Mindanao.



- 5 -
In addition to the inter-island fleet, there are smaller craft providing
low-cost, short-haul transport of agricultural products for local as well as
inter-island markets, and barges are used extensively to move raw or refined
sugar, rice, and other produce. Coastal transport is frequently a logical
alternative in areas where cross-island road construction is made difficult by
mountainous terrain; thus numerous roadsteads and shallow water ports have
been developed where land access is severely limited.
1.16      With increasing regional specialization in production patterns and
rural development, hitherto neglected inter-island shipping needs to be given
a new impetus if it is to play a major role in the Government's plans for
increased food production and regional balance in economic and social develop-
ment. The growing need for food in deficit areas has to be met by increased
production in surplus areas such as Mindanao, which, in turn, requires efficient
marine transport of both agricultural inputs and outputs. In recognition of
this need to improve inter-island shipping services, the Bank's First Shipping
Loan was provided in 1974 and a Second Shipping Project is under preparation
(para. 1.06).
Civil Aviation
1.17      Manila, the only international airport in the Philippines, is
served by 19 international and regional airlines, including Philippine Air
Lines (PAL).  The latter provides international services, and is the sole
carrier for 78 domestic airports operated by the Government. Domestic
passenger traffic has increased only by about 12% p.a. over the past six
years, while air freight is still insignificant. With the assistance of a
US$26 million loan from ADB, the Man:Lla International Airport is being rehab-
ilitated and extended to meet the traffic demand expected by 1983.
C.  Transport Planning and Coordination
1.18      As a result of the Government reorganization in 1972, transport
planning is now the joint responsibility of the National Economic and
Development Authority (NEDA) and the Ministry of Public Works, Transportation
and Communications (MPWTC). As a cerntral planning agency, NEDA has overall
responsibility for public capital invrestments through its Infrastructure
Program and Project Office, which reviews and approves investments proposed
by each transport operating agency. NEDA is assisted in this task by the
Inter-Agency Technical Committee on Transport Planning (IATCTP), staffed by
representatives from each transport aLgency, including the Ministry of Public
Highways, (MPH). IATCTP prepares standards and guidelines for the forma-
tion of agency plans for development and coordination of transport programs
and projects. It also serves as a forum for the resolution of operational
problems of transport agencies.
1.19      Under the MPWTC, the Planning and Project Development Office (PPDO)
is responsible for undertaking comprehensive regional planning studies on
infrastructure investments and formulating priorities for major infrastruc-
ture projects. PPDO maintains liaison with NEDA and provides the bulk of
technical input to transport planning. The Board of Transportation (BOT), as



- 6 -
a semi-detached unit of the MPWTC, handles the quasi-judicial function of
granting routes to transport companies and enforcing rates and regulations
for their operations on the basis of IATCTP policy guidelines. PNR, however,
is outside the purview of BOT and responsible only to the Office of the
President, making it difficult to rationalize transport pricing and inter-
modal investment decisions.
1.20       In 1975, the Bank's Transport Planning Mission identified major
deficiency areas in the transport sector and recommended a two-year technical
assistance program./l As a result, several resident planning advisors
began in 1977 to assist the Government under the Manila Urban Development
Project (Loan 1282-PH) in completing the Government's National Transport
Systems Study (NTSS) undertaken in preparation of a ten-year transport
investment program. In connection with this study, the advisors were expected
to assist individual line agencies and MPWTC with matters concerning transport
policy, coordination, and modal planning. However, completion of the transport
study has been delayed due to changes in the advisory staff, a high turn-over
among the counterpart team, and the lengthy period required for data collection.
Accordingly, the project includes 60 man-months of advisory services to allow
completion of the transport study by early 1980.
2. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Network
2.01       The public highway network (Table 2.1) consists of about 119,600 km
of roads: 22,300 km of national, 28,200 km of provincial, 12,500 km of city
and municipal, and 56,600 km of barangay (mainly farm to market) roads.
National roads include about 121 km of toll expressways with grade separated
intersections north and south of Manila./2 On completion of the Pan-Philippine
Highway, another 2,000 km of national roadway will extend from the north of
Luzon to southern Mindanao. Construction of this road, begun in 1970 with
Japanese financing, is about 90% completed. Progress has been slowed by
design problems, poor performance of some contractors, and inadequate super-
vision by MPH.
2.02       Average road density in 1978 is 0.4 km of road/sq km of land and
2.7 km of road/1,000 inhabitants. This compares favorably with densities in
Korea (0.5 km of road/sq km and 1.3 km of road/1,000 inhabitants) and Thailand
(0.1 km of road/sq km and 1.3 km of road/1,000 inhabitants).
/1 Renewable for another year by mutual agreement at the end of two years
(May 1979).
/2 About 51 km of two-lane toll road has been completed under the Bank's
Second Highway Project (Loan No. 950-PH), and is being expanded to a
four-lane toll expressway.



- 7 -
2.03      Major road improvement aclivities began in 1969 following comple-
tion of the Philippine Transport Survey (PTS)./1  The latter recommended
improvement of about 6,000 km of nalional roads, reorganization of the highway
administration, and improvements in road maintenance procedures.  Most of the
priority roads identified in the PTS have been or are being improved with
local resources, supplemented by assistance from Japan, USAID, ADB and the
Bank. Between 1969 and 1978 about 4,200 km of national and 4,500 km of
provincial roads have been constructed or improved (Table 2.2).
2.04      Despite these road improvement activities, only about 41% of
national roads and 13% of provincial roads are paved (as compared with 95%
and 20% respectively in Thailand). Most unimproved roads are in poor
condition due to: (a) deficient designs resulting in inadequate drainage,
embankment and pavements; (b) lack of proper maintenance; (c) damage from
frequent overloading (many of the trunk roads were built long ago and mainly
intended to carry a small number of vehicles); and (d) insufficient funds to
repair flood damage caused during the rainy and typhoon seasons.
2.05      Under the Second and Third Highway Projects, MPH is required to
carry out a nationwide road inventory, including collection of condition data,
for the purpose of planning road maintenance, restoration, and improvement
programs. This task has been completed only very recently: with the Bank's
assistance, clearly defined detailed guidelines for recording road condition
data have been prepared. These guidelines were issued to the regions and
districts which carried out the work. During negotiations, MPH confirmed that
it will update road inventory data on an annual basis.
B. Highway Traffic
2.06      Between 1966 and 1977, the motor vehicle fleet grew from about
325,000 to about 835,000 vehicles,/2 an increase of about 9.7% p.a.
(Table 2.3). There are about 200,000 motorcycles and three-wheeled vehicles.
Composition of the fleet in 1977 was 52% passenger cars and jeeps, 30%
trucks, 8% jeepneys, 2% buses and 8% other vehicles. About 50% of the total
vehicle fleet is registered in Central and Southern Luzon, providing about
one vehicle per 60 inhabitants.
2.07      Data on highway traffic growth are not collected and analyzed on a
regular basis. However, judging froim increases in the motor vehicle fleet
/1 A two-year study conducted under UNDP financing with the Bank acting as
Executing Agency.
/2 Including motorcycles and pedicabs (motorized three-wheeled vehicles)
which constitute about 12% of all vehicles registered outside Metropoli-
tan Manila.



- 8 -
and the volume of gasoline consumed by road transport, traffic growth between
1966 and 1977 was substantial. Fuel consumption during this period is
estimated to have increased by about 10% p.a. During 1973-75, traffic growth
was slowed by an increase in oil prices. Beginning in 1976, however, traffic
has begun to increase somewhat slowly again with the growth of output and
income (Table L.4) .
2.08      To lay the basis for improved planning and maintenance operations,
consultants (Kampsax/Berger-Denmark/USA) were appointed under the First
Highway Project to recommend improved procedures for collecting and processing
traffic data. Under the Second Highway Project the Government moved to
implement these recommendations, and the MPH resumed a partial traffic
counting program in 1975. Since then, special traffic counts and origin and
destination studies have been conducted by MPH and its consultants for
various roads proposed for Bank or ADB financing. Under the Third Highway
Project the Government is required to implement a national system for
collecting, recording and processing traffic data, but progress has been
slow. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that MPH will fully
implement the annual traffic counting program and data analysis.
C. Road Transport Industry
2.09     Motor vehicle manufacturing in the Philippines consists of the
assembly of cars and trucks and the production of multi-purpose vehicles./l
The industry is protected by high duties and taxes on imported vehicles.
Assembly operations are being developed under the Progressive Car Manufactur-
ing Program (PCMP), initiated in 1972. Five foreign car manufacturers were
selected by the Board of Investments (BOI) to participate in the PCMP, whose
aim is to increase the domestically manufactured component ratio from the
initial 10% to almost 60% by the end of 1978. As a result of the program,
passenger car assembly has risen from about 12,000 units in 1972 to over
30,000 units in 1977. The PCMP also boosted production of low-cost, light,
multipurpose vehicles with a large local component, from about 15,000 units
in 1973 to 29,000 units in 1977 (Table 2.3). In early 1976, a Progressive
Truck Manufacturing Program similar to the PCMP was instituted to expand
production of trucks with a gross vehicle weight not exceeding 40,000 lbs.
2.10      Only 10% of all trucking services are carried out by general
haulage operators; the rest are provided by enterprises hauling their
goods in their own trucks. A major reason for the proliferation of private
truck ownership by firms appears to be the favorable tax advantages accorded
them. Since privately-owned trucks are not regarded as general haulers,
they are neither subject to tariff regulations nor to the taxes and fees
levied on commercial truckers. Moreover, private truckers can inflate their
trucking costs and charge them against their business operations for tax
purposes. Technical assistance advisors apointed to MPWTC and NEDA
/1 Light passenger/commercial vehicles known as Asian Utility Vehicles:
Ford's Fiera, GM's Harabas, Chrysler's Cimaron and DMG's Trakbayan.



- 9 -
(para. 1.20) are reviewing the existing taxes on private and for-hire trucks
and the economic nature of their operations with a view towards making appro-
priate policy recommendations.
2.11      The growth of efficient commercial trucking is hindered by the
unrealistically low rates set by BOT. BOT also sets fares for passenger
transport, which is privately operaLted. Taxis and buses are owned by a few
large companies, while "jeepneys" (an extended jeep carrying 12-16 people) are
mostly driver-owned. The latter are extremely popular, due to low fares and
convenience. Most intercity buses are old, with bus companies claiming that
low rates prohibit the purchase and profitable operation of new ones. Tech-
nical assistance advisers appointed to each transport agency (para. 1.20) are
helping the Government review the present tariff structure and formulate
realistic trucking and passenger rates.
D. Administration
2.11      Responsibility for constructing, maintaining and planning national
roads is vested in MPH, which was created in May 1974, from the former Bureau
of Public Highways of MPWTC./1 In M,ay 1975, MPH took on the added responsi-
bility of supervising construction and overseeing maintenance of barangay
roads. Construction and maintenance of provincial, city and municipal roads
are in the hands of local and provincial authorities.  However, when local
roads are constructed with funds from the National Treasury, /2 MPH is required
to provide technical assistance and construction supervision.
2.12      MPH is headed by a Minister, assisted by a Deputy Minister, under
which there are four Assistant Ministers: one in charge of administrative
matters, one handling financial affairs, one responsible for planning and
operations, and the fourth responsible for personnel management and development.
The organizational structure (Chart No. IA) is based on the recommendations of
the technical assistance program financed by UNDP under the First Highway
Project and continued with Bank finaLncing under the Second Highway Project, as
further modified through consultations between the Government and the Bank.
2.13      Construction and maintenance of national roads are the responsi-
bility of 13 MPH Regional Offices, each headed by a Regional Director. Their
work has been supervised at headquarters by the Bureau of Construction and
Maintenance (BCM), which has been responsible for setting construction and
maintenance standards. As a result of an organizational and management study
commissioned by MPH and completed in September 1978 under the Third Highway
/I Formerly the Department of Public Works and Telecommunications.
/2 Refers to national funds appropriated under the Aid to Provincial Road
Development Programs.



- 10 -
Project, BCM has been split into two separate bureaus, the Bureau of Construct-
ion (BOC) and the Bureau of Maintenance (BOM) in order to separate responsibi-
lities and emphasize the importance of maintenance (Chart NO. IB). Regions
are subdivided into districts or cities whose numbers vary according to the
size of the region. There are a total of 149 districts and cities, each
headed by a district or city engineer. The city engineers function as MPH
district engineers for national roads that pass through city and municipal
areas. The Bureau of Equipment (BOE) is responsible for the management,
repair and maintenance of road equipment. Equipment is rented to MPH regions
and district offices at pre-set rates which are comparable to those in the
industry. BOE has its own regional equipment service offices, which directly
control 12 base workshops /1 and a number of area workshops and mobile shops.
The Bureau of Barangay Roads (BBR) supervises the construction and maintenance
of farm-to-market access (barangay) roads.
E. Training
2.14      Although ad-hoc training was conducted for many years by the
various highway agencies, headquarters and regional training officer posts
were only established with the creation of MPH in 1974. The move was intended
to meet manpower development and training needs in the Administrative Services,
the Bureau of Equipment and the Bureau of Barangay Roads. However, regular
training programs in the regions were hindered by insufficient funds and
support from headquarters. To address this problem, funds were included in
the Second Highway Project for a consultants' study to identify manpower
development needs and recommend suitable training programs. In early 1976,
the consultanjs, Roy Jorgensen Associates, Inc. (USA), submitted their final
report which identified training needs to strengthen various units in MPH. As a
result, the Third Highway Project included a training program,/2 implementation
of which is now under way. After the completion of the on-going technical
assistance-advisory services in July 1979, the newly formed Manpower Develop-
ment Service of MPH will continue operation and further development of the
permanent training programs initiated with the help of the consultants.
F. Planning
2.15      A planning unit (PPDO) has been established in MPH, with responsi-
bility for programming the annual allocation of funds and preparing the high-
way component of the country's rolling Four-Year Infrastructure Investment
Plan. Its tasks also include evaluation and ranking of major road projects.
/1  There are only 12 workshops for the MPH's 13 regions as two regions
(4A & 4B) share one workshop.
/2  The program includes the services of three Training Advisors: two to
assist the existing training units in the Personnel Division of the
Administrative Services and the Bureau of Equipment, and one to start
training facilities in the Bureau of Construction and Maintenance. The
latter Bureau has no formal training unit, and has relied on ad hoc
seminars conducted in the field by local and headquarters personnel.
Services will extend over a two-year period.



- 11 -
In July 1976, under the Third Highway Project, an expatriate transport economist
was appointed for four years to strengthen both the PPDO and planning capabili-
ties at the regional level. Additional assistance is being provided to the
PPDO under Loan 1282-PH to help in the preparation of a highway investment plan
for the National Transport System Study (para. 1.20). Performance of the PPDO
is improving as a result of these efforts. Provision has been made in the
present project for the extension of these services for an additional two years.
G. Financing
2.16      Under the FY79-82 investment program (Table 1.1), the Government
plans to spend a total of about P 8,400 million (US$1,135 million) for
highways. This represents an increase of about 8% over the previous four-year
period (FY75-78)./1   From 1966 to 1974, total highway expenditures, including
administration and maintenance, increased approximately five and one half
times in real terms. Expenditures doubled between 1974 and 1975, and increased
by 32% in 1976. Construction averaged 60-65% of total expenditures, maintenance
about 25%, with the remainder being administrative costs (Table 2.5).
2.17      During the period from 1966 to 1975, revenues increased by 5-10%
p.a. through 1973, jumping by 115% in 1974 and 57% in 1975 as a result of
the increase in crude oil prices and subsequent tax increases (Table 2.6). A
new annual energy tax /2 was introduced in 1975 to discourage private car
ownership in line with the recommendations of the technical assistance
consultants and the Bank.
2.18      Almost 80% of highway revenues are obtained from fuel oil taxes,
with the remainder coming from motor vehicle fees, licenses and other items,
including tolls levied on the two expressways north and south of Manila.
During 1970-77, total revenues covered only about half of the highway expendi-
tures (Tables 2.6 and 2.7). This is primarily because road user charges,
despite recent increases, are still comparatively low. These should be
revised periodically to cover a larger proportion of highway expenditures.
During negotiations, confirmation was obtained from the Government that it
would review the sources of highway revenues with a view towards determining
the appropriate levels of charges.
/1 FY76 extended for 18 months becauase of a change in the Fiscal Year to
coincide with the calendar year, so the actual comparative increase is
larger.
/2  Rates are high, ranging from P 150 per year for a new small car to
P 12,000 a year for a new, expensive sports car.



- 12 -
H. Design and Construction
2.19      Design and construction of national roads are carried out by MPH,
either directly or by employing consultants and contractors. Most large
projects art .=; gLed b, _stsultants, '          -"- f-2 '-S:e- -dCrt!-- '-
special teams in headquarters and by the regional offices. Design standards
appropriate to Philippine conditions were developed by MPH, assisted by
Norconsult (Norway), during the first UNDP-financed road feasibility studies
in 1971/72. Standards for minor roads were recommended by the general con-
sultants appointed under the Second Highway Project, Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick
& Partners (U.K.)./1 The design standards are satisfactory and have been
applied to the project roads (Table 2.8). Consultants are also used for
construction supervision of large projects financed by international agencies,
such as the Bank and ADB. About 90% of the construction is carried out by
contract and, for Bank and ADB financed projects, mostly under international
competitive bidding procedures. The remaining construction work is carried
out by force account with local competitive bidding for minor contracts.
2.20      Locally-financed provincial, city and municipal roads are designed
and constructed by the respective local governments. Some construction work
is carried out by force account using labor-intensive methods and some bridge
work is undertaken by contract. Many of these roads are designed and cons-
tructed by MPH on an agency basis for the local government unit.
2.21      Improvement and construction of farm to market and similar local
roads is receiving a new impetus with the creation of the Bureau of Barangay
Roads. Preliminary estimates based on a road inventory now being compiled
indicate that total length of these roads /2 may exceed 60,000 km, including
a large number of trails. Field work, surveys, provision of equipment and
supervision are being handled by the MPH districts, but construction will,
in many cases, utilize village labor.
2.22      The local contracting industry has benefited from several Government
measures designed to make it competitive with foreign contractors. Local
contractors' foreign exchange requirements are met by the Government, and
equipment for Bank-financed projects may be imported duty-free. Advances of
up to 15% of contract amount are permitted on all contracts, and retention
funds have been limited to 5% of sums due to contractors. Contract conditions
include an adequate price adjustment clause for basic materials, fuel, labor,
and plant. Local contractors have also benefited from experience under Bank
and ADB-financed highway projects. As a result of these favorable factors,
the local contracting industry is now competitive and in no need of special
assistance.
/1   The firm supervised the detailed engineering of the roads performed
under the Second and the Third Highway Projects.
/2   The Bank's Rural Infrastructure Project (Credit 790-PH) includes
improvement of about 1,400 km of barangay and rural access roads in
various areas, technical assistance to the BBR, and the provision of
maintenance equipment to the various districts.



-- 13 -
2.23      A factor in the design and construction of the project roads has
been their potential for reducing unemployment. Although contractors are
left to choose their own construction methods, substantial employment should
be generated by the road construction activities under the project. In
addition, local and foreign contractors are expected to employ local subcon-
tractors, most of whom use labor-intensive methods. Studies on labor
intensive schemes, begun by an International Labor Organization team, are
being continued by a special unit of MPH. The Bank will monitor this work,
and consider the possibility of applying and improving labor-based technology
in the maintenance and restoration works as well as in construction and
improvement of feeder roads financed under the project (para. 3.40).
I. Maintenance
2.24      The greatest weakness in the Philippines highway sector has been
inadequate road maintenance. Since the Bank's involvement in the highway
sector in 1970, it has observed a serious lack of attention to road main-
tenance in the field. The reasons were many: there was no proper organ-
izational set up or staff capable of carrying out the required tasks; funds
allocated for maintenance were either grossly inadequate or diverted to road
construction or other activities; and maintenance operations and procedures
were ill-defined. Essential items of equipment were unavailable when and
where needed; hand tools were in short supply; workshop facilities to service
and repair equipment were inadequate; and many depots were cluttered with
broken-down equipment in scrap condition. Moreover, years of neglected
road maintenance have resulted in the deterioration of a large part of the
network to a point where it cannot be maintained by normal methods; restora-
tion works are needed to put the roads in a maintainable condition.
2.25      In an attempt to improve this situation a maintenance study was
initiated in 1972 under the First Highway Project and completed in 1975
under the Second Highway Project by the consultants, Kampsax/Berger (Denmark/
USA). The study recommended a reorganization of the then Bureau of Public
Highways and prepared a Five-Year Maintenance Program, which included:
(a) target annual budgetary requirements for routine and periodic maintenance;
(b) substantial road restoration; (c) procurement and management of maintenance
equipment and spare parts to replace or restore MPH equipment; and (d) a
highway maintenance manual describing operations and procedures.
2.26      In accordance with the study recommendations, the MPH was upgraded
in 1974 from a bureau in the MPWTC t:o departmental status, and has set
up a satisfactory organization with field offices for maintaining national
roads. Routine maintenance is now performed by the MPH's 13 regions and 149
districts and cities, using their own forces. Periodic maintenance is usually
carried out by contractors.
2.27      Moreover, the MPH has taken steps to improve its budgetary proce-
dures for routine maintenance by adopting a formula which expresses in
Equivalent Maintenance Kilometers (EMK), the actual road lengths as adjusted



- 14 -
for surface type, width, traffic levels and length and type of bridges.
These new procedures helped to identify annual funding requirements for
routine and periodic maintenance on a more systematic basis. According to MPH
statistics, the funds allocated for maintenance in 1972 were P 156 million,
but the amount sharply increased to P 480 million in 1975, P 709 million
in 1977, P 930 million in 1978 and an estimated allocation of P 1,040 million
for 1979 (Table 2.9). In 1978, the average maintenance cost per EMK was
P 11,342 (US$1,530) which has been increased to P 11,600 (US$1,570) per EMK
and which the consultants deemed adequate for routine maintenance. However,
the consultants based their recommendation on the adequacy of average mainten-
ance cost per EMK on the assumption that MPH would complete an annual program
of road restoration each year to return deteriorated roads to an approximately
original condition, so that normal maintenance work could be undertaken.
Thereafter, the other assumptions were that all the funds allocated for
maintenance would be expended in accordance with the procedures recommended by
them, and that needed equipment would be available in a timely manner. In
practice, these assumptions, which served as the basis for the consultants'
recommendations on the appropriate level of EMK expenditures, have not yet been
fully realized.
2.28      In order to reinforce the positive steps taken by MPH and to help
it implement the first phase of the Five-Year Maintenance Program recommended
by Kampsax-Berger, the Third Highway Project included procurement of main-
tenance equipment, construction and improvement of workshops, a program to
carry out road maintenance and restoration work and technical assistance.
Nine experts are presently advising: (i) BCM on the managerial aspects of
maintenance; (ii) the regions on the organization of maintenance crews in the
field; and (iii) BOE on workshop management, equipment procurement and spare
parts control.
2.29      During appraisal of the project in October/November 1977, it was
observed that very little work had been done on the road maintenance and
restoration work components of the Third Highway Project, although the
construction component had started, albeit slowly, some six months behind the
implementation schedule. The Bank was also concerned by the poorly maintained
condition of the First Highway Project road which has eroded shoulders,
clogged ditches and drains, unsealed pavement joints, and in places, signs of
failing pavement. Poor maintenance of the recently completed roads under the
Second Highway Project was also observed. In view of this, further processing
of the Fourth Highway Project was held in abeyance pending tangible progress
on road maintenance and restoration work by MPH in order to:
(a) give MPH more time to initiate the maintenance and restoration
work under the Third Highway Project;
(b) make satisfactory arrangements for maintenance work to safe-
guard past investments in road construction; and



- 15 -
(c)  allow MPH to concentrate on maintaining and upgrading the existing
road network and strengthening MPH's management./l
2.30       Between October 1977 and October 1978, supervision by the Bank was
intensified. As a result:
(a) A detailed action program for maintenance and restoration works to
be completed by September 1978 was formulated and agreed with the
Government. This program sets out specific performance targets
and dates for attaining them;
(b) Discussions were held with all levels of MPH officials and consult-
ants assisting the MPH wit'h the maintenance/restoration works, and
the detailed steps necessary for the implementation of the action
program were agreed. The emphasis was placed on extending technical
assistance by the consultants at the regional and district levels
where the actual maintenan,ze work is performed anad maintenance
planning is undertaken; and
(c)  The BCM inspectorate unit was strengthened to monitor more closely
the accomplishment of scheduled maintenance/restoration work, and
a reporting format containing a performance evaluation system was
agreed. Follow-up visits were to be made by inspectors to the
areas where performance has been unsatisfactory.
2.31       The concentrated focus on maintenance/'restoration work by the Bank
has yielded some positive results; MPH has made an unprecedented effort to
fulfill its maintenance obligations under the Third Highway Project, and
progress is being made on the action program. However, sustained efforts by
MPH will be necessary over a period of years bef'ore substantial physical
improvements can be expected. The MPH was requested to prepare a future
action program to implement the road maintenance/restoration components under
the proposed project in line with MPH's capabilities and available funds.
During negotiations, this action program was reviewed and agreed with
the Government.
J. Past Bank Assistance in the HighLay Sector
2.32       As indicated in para. 1.07, previous Bank assistance in the highway
sector has involved three loans: Loan 731-PH for US$8.0 million in 1971,
Loan 950-PH for US$68.0 million in 1973, and Loan 1353-PH for US$95.0 million
in 1977. The First Highway Loan was completely disbursed in 1976, about
8 months later than forecast although the project road is not yet completely
finished. Works had progressed satisfactorily until March 1973, when they
were suspended for several months due to civil disturbances which eventually
/1   Execution of the maintenance and road restoration components requires
much more effort on the part of MPH than implementing a construction
program, which is largely in the hands of consultants and contractors.



- 16 -
led to the deletion of a section of the road representing about 20% of the
project. No portion of the loan was cancelled, as funds were needed to meet
increased construction costs for the remaining works. The Government is
still in the process of completing the unfinished portion with its own funds.
However, due to continuing unrest in the project area, it is uncertain when
the unfinished works on the project road will be compieted.  A cost ou-i.run
of over 50% is anticipated.
2.33      The implementation of the Second Highway Project was generally
satisfactory except for the poor performance of one contractor. This con-
tractor's unfinished portion of the work was awarded to a number of local
firms who are satisfactorily completing the project road. The delay necessi-
tated by this rearrangement has resulted in the extension of the Closing Date
for the Second Highway Project by 18 months, to June 30, 1979; about 98%
of the civil works are completed to date.
2.34       Implementation of the Third Highway Project began about eighteen
months ago. The construction component is about six months behind schedule
due to a delayed start caused by a lack of local funds (para. 3.30). The
implementation of the maintenance and road restoration components began about
one year behind schedule but, as noted above, MPH's performance on this aspect
of the work is improving. A number of contractors have performed poorly and
MPH has terminated several contracts, awarding them to other local contractors.
2.35      The strategy of Bank lending for highways has been to:  (i) increase
the capacity of the existing infrastructure; (ii) improve project preparation
and implementation capabilities; and (iii) develop an institutional framework
within which proper maintenance can be carried out. Continued assistance in
attaining these objectives through careful sector reviews and project prepara-
tion will be needed, so that capacity increases are obtained at the least cost
to the economy and efficient use is made of existing capacity before increasing
it.
2.36      A further objective of the Bank is to expand its participation in
the provision of improved farm-to-market and feeder roads capable of accom-
modating motorized traffic in support of the Government's rural road
development program to aid increased food production. In the past, the Bank
helped to finance the construction and improvement of rural feeder roads
through irrigation, multi-purpose and rural development projects. Building
upon these efforts, the Bank will assist the Government in implementing its
policy of expanding local government responsibility for the construction and
maintenance of local roads. For this reason, a technical assistance program
is proposed under the project to prepare a national rural roads program and
strengthen local capabilities to plan, select, design and implement rural
road projects (paras. 3.20-3.22, 3.39).
K. Sector Lending
2.37      The institutions dealing with national roads, especially road
maintenance, need further strengthening before the sector lending approach
can be adopted. The present project will include an action program, successful
implementation of which should pave the way for future sector lending for
highways in the Philippines. The project should be considered as a transition
towards sector lending; it adopts many characteristics of sector lending such
as greater emphasis on sector policy issues (e.g. road maintenance) and



- 17 -
institution building (e.g. strengtlhening of provincial governments' capabil-
ities to plan, execute, and maintain rural roads). The sector lending
approach is particularly suitable for rural roads as it is impractical for
the Bank to closely supervise short stretches of low standard roads scattered
throughout the country. The preparation of a comprehensive rural roads
program financed under the Project is intended to pave the way for future
sector lending for low cost, local roads.
3. T_E PROJECT
A. Background
3.01      The proposed project was identified from two studies carried out
by consultants:
(i) Road Feasibility StLdies II by Norconsult/Hoff & Overgaard
(Norway/Denmark) comipleted in 1975 for the road improvement
component;
(ii) Highway Maintenance Study (Five-Year Maintenance Program) /1
by Kampsax/Berger (Denmark/USA) completed in 1975 for the
maintenance component, and which included road restoration.
3.02      Road Feasibility Studies II recommended a program for improving
1,150 km of national and 500 km of feeder roads, of which 500 km and 300 km,
respectively, are being upgraded under the Third Highway Project. The
balance of the program was to be included in the Fourth Highway Project along
with the second phase maintenance program. However, an updated economic
analysis completed in October 1977, based on recent traffic counts and cost
estimates derived from detailed engineering, showed that about 325 km of
national and 60 km of feeder roads had substantially lower returns than
anticipated. The relatively low returns were caused by traffic levels which
fell short of, and construction costs which exceeded, feasibility study
estimates (whose data base was 1973).  Moreover, some of the recommended
feeder roads principally served large, privately-owned sugar estates. Con-
sequently, the roads that yielded these low rates of return were eliminated
from the proposed project (para. 3.06). They are, however, to be considered
for inclusion in the road restoration program (para. 3.10). The road main-
tenance and restoration components included in the project represent the
second phase /1 of the Five-Year Program.
B. Objectives of the Project
3.03      The major objectives of the project are:  (a) to provide improved
transport services to the rural population through reconstruction, restora-
tion, and maintenance of deteriorated national and connecting feeder roads;
(b) to upgrade maintenance procedures and operations for national and secondary
roads; (c) to train MPH staff to carry out the tasks under (a) and (b), and
(d) to strengthen planning, administrative, engineering and maintenance
capabilities of provincial highway aLuthorities.
/1 The first phase (2 years) of the program was included in the Third
Highway Project.



- 18 -
3.04      Under previous Bank projects, the road construction industry
has been sufficiently improved that it can now begin exporting its services
to the world market. In contrast, progress on road maintenance and restora-
tion works has been slow. The project therefore addresses this need by
aiming to improve the efficiency of road maintenance and restoration works.
This task is critical in view of the increase in the road network that needs
to be maintained, and the increasing public expenditures needed for major
reconstruction of deteriorated highways. Detailed steps are proposed in
Annex 2.
3.05      The project will also assist the Government to achieve its goal
of strengthening local administrative, planning, and executing capabilities
using road planning and construction as a medium for developing operational
capability and financial management in the provinces. For this purpose, a
technical assistance program is proposed to supplement the ongoing Provincial
Development Assistance Program (PDAP) which was initiated with USAID support.
C. Description of the Project
3.06      The project consists of the following components:
(a) construction and improvement of 8 national road sections totalling
345 km and 6 feeder road sections totalling 63 km;
(b) implementation of the second phase (1980-1982) of a Five-Year
Road Restoration Program which is part of a Five-Year Road Main-
tenance Program. The Five-Year Road Restoration Program comprises
restoration of about 13,200 km of deteriorated sections of the
national road network to a maintainable condition. The first phase
(1977/78-79) of the program was included in the Third Highway
Project and covered about 4,800 km of this total. The second
phase, included as part of this project, comprises the balance of
about 8,400 km with the Bank providing financial assistance for
approximately 1,430 km. The Government will fund restoration of
the remaining 6,970 km.
(c) implementation of the Second phase (1980-1982) of a Five-Year
Maintenance Program. The overall program includes: (i) the
construction or enlargement of 13 base /1 and 55 area workshops in
various parts of the country; (ii) procurement of road maintenance
equipment including spare parts, hand tools, workshop tools and
machinery; and (iii) procurement of necessary parts and components
for existing equipment. The first phase (1977/78-79) of the
program was included in the Third Highway Project, but was limited
to Luzon. It included 5 base and 23 area workshops as well as
procurement of the first tranche of required road maintenance
equipment, tools, machinery, parts and components. The second phase
will cover all other islands as well and will include the balance
of 8 base and 32 area workshops. It will also include the balance
of the required equipment, machinery, tools and components.
/1 Includes one Central Equipment Depot (Table 3.3).



19 -
(d)  continuation of the axle load control program begun under the
Second Highway Project (Loan 950-PH) with the procurement of
additional weighbridges;
(e)  procurement of soils arid materials testing equipment;
(f)  advanced technical training overseas for permanent MPH and MLGCD /1
staff;
(g)  technical assistance to:  (i) MPH to help implement an expanded
road restoration program;  -ii) MLGCD to initiate a program for
improved administration, pLanning, design, construction supervi-
sion and maintenance of provincial roads; (iii) MPH to assist in
making required organizational, administrative and operational
improvements; and (iv) MPWTTC to continue the ongoing transport
planning advisory services,; and
(h)  consulting services for construction supervision of project roads,
and for detailed engineering and construction supervision of
workshop construction.
(a) Construction and Improvement of Roads
(i) National Roads
3.07      Eight national road sectiorns (Table 3.5), totalling about 345 km in
Luzon, Cebu, Negros, Panay and Mindanao, will be constructed and improved
mainly on their present alignments tc serve predominantly agricultural areas.
The existing roads have rough, narrow pavements which have deteriorated
because of bad design, poor maintenance and heavy traffic volumes. Detailed
engineering, financed under the Second Highway Project, was carried out by
the MPH and four local consulting firms,/2 and was supervised by general
consultants Scott Wilson, Kirkpatrick and Partners (U.K.). The work is
satisfactory and conforms to MPH highway design standards. (Table 2.8).
3.08      The roads will be upgraded by improving and widening shoulders
and pavements to handle increased traffic volumes. Bridges will be re-
constructed or replaced where necessary. Various types of pavements will be
used according to traffic volumes including gravel, bituminous surface
treatment, and asphalt concrete. On some sections embankments will be raised
to reduce damage from severe flooding; all road sections will have improved
drainage and cross drainage structures; and cement concrete pavement will be
used in some highly urbanized areas.
(ii) Feeder Roads
3.09      The six feeder road sections (Table 3.5) total 63 km and are
located on Cebu, Negros and Mindanao Islands. They connect with the
national roads to be improved under thle project and were identified by the
/1 Ministry of Local Government and Community Development.
/2 Utilizing expatriate experts in key positions who were provided by
associated foreign consulting firms.



- 20 -
feasibility study consultants and MPH as requiring improvements concurrently
with the national roads. The present roads are difficult to negotiate during
the wet season because of inadequate drainage, narrow widths and unsatisfactory
earth surfaces. Engineering was done in accordance with MPH design standards
by MPH and local consultants (Table 2.8).
(b) Road Restoration Program
3.10      The Road Restoration Program (Table 3.2) included in this project
is the balance (1980-82) of the Five-Year Program recommended by Kampsax/
Berger as modified by MPH in consultation with the Bank. Under this project
8,400 km of badly deteriorated national road sections would be restored to a
condition where only routine maintenance will be necessary for their upkeep.
The program will also identify and correct deficiencies (e.g. poor drainage)
in existing roads without upgrading them in terms of classification or
anticipated traffic levels. A simple rating system, based on economic and
engineering criteria, will be used to determine specific location and nature
of the works (Annex 2). The Bank will provide financial assistance under the
Loan for work on about 1,430 km /1 of these roads to be carried out by con-
tractors. The Government will use its own resources to restore the balance.
3.11      MPH has agreed to give priority to rehabilitation of the 325 km of
national and 60 km of feeder roads recommended for major upgrading in Highway
Feasiblity Studies II but eliminated from the present project due to relatively
low returns (para. 3.02). Temporary repairs on these roads would yield high
returns: when additional traffic develops, the roads could then be recon-
structed. However, they will be subject to the same economic analysis as
other candidate roads to determine the timing and scope of required work.
(c) Road Maintenance Program
3.12      The Road Maintenance Program (Table 3.1) is the balance (1980-82)
of the Five-Year Program, the first phase of which was included in the Third
Highway Project. In order to assist in carrying out this program, the
project includes the following components:
(a)  Construction or improvement of one Central Equipment Depot, 7
Regional Base Workshops and 32 Area Workshops in various parts of
the country (Table 3.3).
(b)  Procurement and installation of workshop tools, equipment and
machinery for these workshops (Table 3.4).
(c)  Procurement of additional road maintenance equipment, including
spare parts, hand tools, and equipment maintenance tools and facili-
ties (Table 3.4).
(d)  Procurement of necessary parts and components for the existing
maintenance equipment fleet throughout the country (Table 3.4).
/1 Under the Third Highway Project, the Bank provided financial assistance
for about 1,100 km of these roads (Table 3.2).



- 21 -
3.13      Two additional Regional Base Workshops not included in the project
are being built and equipped with Japanese aid.  The workshop equipment,
tools and machinery to be included in the project have been identified with
the assistance of the technical assistance experts appointed under the Third
Highway Project. During negotiations, the list of road maintenance equipment,
workshop tools, equipment and machinery to be procured under the project was
agreed with the Government. The technical assistance experts appointed under
the Third Highway Project are curresntly assisting MPH in reviewing the
condition of existing maintenance equipment and a list of necessary parts and
components to be procured under the project will be submitted for Bank review
and agreement prior to initiating procurement action.
(d) Weighbridges and Soils and Materials Testing Equipment
3.14      The project provides funcds for the acquisition of 7 permanent and 32
portable weighbridges. These will supplement the 9 permanent and 50 portable
weighbridges procured under the Second Highway Project, now operational, and
will thus extend the recently instituted axle load control program to the
rest of the country. During negotiations, the location and implementation
schedule for these additional weighbridges was agreed with the Government
(Table 3.7).
3.15      Soils and materials testing equipment being used by MPH is either
obsolete or in short supply. Provision has been made under the project for
procurement of the required equipment to permit better soil investigation,
testing and analysis, and improved quality control of construction materials.
A technical assistance expert, appointed under the Third Highway Project, is
assisting the recently reorganized Soils and Materials Quality Control Service
of the MPH to identify and operate the necessary equipment. During negotiations,
agreement was reached on the list of soils and materials testing equipment to
be procured under the project (Table 3.9).
(e) Training
3.16      Although the level of technical competence of MPH and MLGCD personnel
is satisfactory for ordinary operations, the central organizations responsible
for such a large highway network need staff competent to handle the especially
difficult and complex problems that occur. To help provide such competent
staff, the project includes advanced technical training for selected permanent
staff of the central headquarters. The Government has agreed to institute
appropriate regulations to ensure that personnel trained under such a program
remain with the sponsoring organizaltion for an adequate length of time. During
negotiations, detailed arrangements for implementation of this program,
including technical disciplines selected and required regulations, were agreed
with the Government. A total of eight staff would be trained for one year
each, six from MPH and two from MLGCD. In addition, eight of the permanent
staff would be sent on three-month study tours overseas, six from MPH and two
from MLGCD.



- 22 -
(f) Technical Assistance
(i) Technical Assistance to MPH
3.17      At the request of MPH, consultants carried out a study under the
Third Highway Project to determine the improvements needed in MPH's organization,
administration and management. One of the consultants' major recommendations
was that the Government's decentralization policy should be further implemented
by placing additional responsibility for design and construction supervision on
the regions instead of the present practice of carrying these functions out
primarily from the center. The Government has accepted the major recommendations
contained in the consultant's report and intends to implement them. In order
to assist the MPH in making these improvements, the project includes 192
man-months of technical assistance (two experts /1 each for a period of two
years) to the four regions where road improvements are planned under this
project. In this way, the road improvements included in this project can be
used as a means of upgrading the capability of the regional offices in contract
administration, construction supervision, monitoring of consultant's services
and road maintenance.
3.18      In addition, technical assistance, at MPH headquarters for the
various MPH Bureaus is also included, so that the efforts presently being
made under the Third Highway Project to improve MPH's technical and management
capabilities and increase its operational efficiency, can be continued. For
this purpose 180 man-months of technical assistance has been included in the
project.
3.19      Technical assistance of 24 man-months will also be provided to
specifically assist MPH in proper implementation of the Road Restoration
Program (para. 3.10). Another 24 man-months of technical assistance has been
included in the project to continue the assistance presently being provided to
PPDO, under the Third Highway Project, for carrying out their responsibilities
concerning road feasibility studies, axle load control and analysis of traffic
data. During negotiations, terms of reference, scheduling and the details of
all these technical assistance components were discussed and agreed with the
Government (Table 3.8).
/1 One highway design and construction expert and one road maintenance expert.



- 23 -
(ii) Technical Assistance to MLGCD
3.20      The project will also include 96 man-months of consulting services
to provide technical assistance to MLGCD and selected provincial highway
authorities in preparation for a future rural road project (Table 3.8). In
cooperation with USAID, which has initiated the PDAP program (para. 2.20,
3.05), experts will assist in preparing a provincial and rural road develop-
ment program and an action program for improved planning procedures and
adequate maintenance of rural roads by the provincial governments. The study
is expected to propose an appropriate methodology for project selection and
the degree of engineering required to obtain adequate cost estimates for the
improvement of rural roads. During negotiations, the arrangements for the
study and the terms of reference were discussed and agreed.
3.21      The study will lead to proposals for:  (a) the improvement of the
institutions dealing with the provincial and other local roads (including
barangay roads), and in planning, executing and maintaining provincial and
rural roads; (b) a phased ten-year program for improving rural roads and
its estimated cost; (c) a rural road maintenance program to identify personnel,
equipment, and other resources required, which would include cost estimates,
and recommendations on appropriate maintenance methods; and (d) methods of
financing both construction and maintenance programs for rural roads.
3.22      The proposed study, to be undertaken at the provincial level, will
support the Government's decentralization policy of strengthening local
capabilities to plan, select, design, and implement projects on the basis of
local leaders' and technicians' intimate knowledge of their region's economy
and needs. Expanded local government responsibility for the construction and
maintenance of rural roads is a concrete step towards increasing local parti-
cipation in rural development programs. The long-term objective of the
Government is to consolidate the variLous local road improvement programs
operated by the national Government agencies and incorporate them into local
programs administered by the provinciLal governments. To achieve this objective,
the central government will need to allocate resources annually to the provin-
cial governments so that they have a regular flow of funds for improving and
maintaining low-cost, low standard roads.
(iii) Technical Assistance to MPWTC
3.23      In addition, 60 man-months of technical assistance (Table 3.8) has
been included in the project to continue the on-going transport planning
advisory services to MPWTC now being financed under the Manila Urban Develop-
ment Project (Loan 1282-PH).



- 24 -
(g) Consulting Services
(i) Construction Supervision
3.24      Construction supervision will be undertaken by the same local
consultants and MPH regional offices who carried out detailed engineering
of project roads. To strengthen their supervision staff, local consultants
will recruit experienced expatriates to fill key positions. During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained from the Government that the qualifica-
tions and terms of reference of the supervision consultants, technical assist-
ance experts and MPH staff will be satisfactory to the Bank. Agreement was
reached with the Government during negotiations on the terms of reference for
the consultants.
(ii) Workshops
3.25      Design and construction supervision of workshops will be undertaken
by local consultants, as under the Third Highway Project. Design work will
consist of reviewing MPH plans, revising as necessary, and preparing detailed
drawings and bid documents. The consultants will also review prequalification
applications and evaluate tenders received, subject to final examination and
approval by MPH. The consultants will provide an adequate, full-time super-
vision staff for each workshop site and a coordinating control group at their
main office. Agreement was reached with the Government during negotiations on
the terms of reference for the consultants and assurances were obtained that
the qualifications of the consultants to be appointed will be satisfactory to
the Bank.
D. Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
3.26      The total cost of the project, including right-of-way, is estimated
at about 1,517 million pesos or US$205 million equivalent. This includes
physical contingencies of 10% on all items. Overall, physical and price
contingencies combined represent about 20% of the total project cost./1 The
proposed loan of US$100 million will finance the foreign exchange cost,
estimated at 49% of the total project cost, and the local cost of consulting
/1 Inflation, during the project implementation period, has been assumed to
be 7% p.a. for civil works and 6% p.a. for equipment and machinery.
For consulting services and training, 5% has been allowed to account for
expected price increases.



- 25 -
services; the Government will finance the balance of the local cost of US$105
million equivalent plus taxes. Detailed cost estimates are given in Table
3.5 and are summarized below.



- 26 -
Foreign
(Pesos Million)            (US$ Million)            Exchange
Item                   Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Component
(%)
A. Construction and
Improvement of:
1.  National Roads (345 km)   148.1  178.1    326.2          20.0    24.1    44.1          55
2.  Feeder Roads (63 km)          11.4   14.1      25.5       1.5      1.9      3.4        55
Subtotal (A)               159.5  192.1    351.6        21.5    26.0    47.5          55
B. Road Maintenance and
Restoration Program           401.1  347.8    748.9        54.2    47.0   101.2          46
C. Weighbridges, Soils and
Materials Testing
Equipment                        1.6    7.3       8.9       0.2      1.0      1.2        83
D.  Training                           0.7    1.7        2.4       0.1      0.2      0.3        67
E.  Consulting Services               27.4   48.8       76.2       3.7      6.6    10.3         64
Subtotal (A to E)           590.3  597.7  1,188.0        79.7    80.8   160.5          50
F.  Contingencies
1.  Physical                      59.0   59.8    118.8        8.0      8.1    16.1         50
2.  Price                        105.5   82.2    187.7       14.3    11.1    25.4          44
Subtotal (F)               164.5  142.0    306.5        22.3    19.2    41.5          46
G.  Land Acquisition                  22.5    -         22.5       3.0       -       3.0         -
Total Project Cost              777.3  739.7  1,517.0    105.0   100.0   205.0            49



- 27 -
3.27      The average construction cost per km (excluding contingency al.--,w
ances and right-of-way) is estimated at about US$130,000 equivalent for national
roads, and about US$55,000 equivalent for feeder roads. Construction super-
vision for roads by consultants is estimated at about 6% of- construction
cost. Consulting services for workshops including design, preparation of
contract documents and construction supervision is estimated at about 6.5% of
overall workshop construction costs. The man-month rate for expatriate
consultants is estimated to be about US$8,300, or US$6,500 if international
travel expenses and local costs for housing and local travel is excluded.
These costs are considered reasonable and are based on prevrious experience.
3.28      Cost estimates were independently prepared by the consultants
who did the detailed engineering and by MPH for the roads designed by that
agency. The estimates were checked and assembled by the general consultants
and quantities derived from detailed designs. Unit prices were based on an
analysis of the cost of labor, materials, depreciation, operation of equipment,
and contractors' overhead and profit, taking into account recent bids received
for similar projects. A 10% physical contingency allowance for quantity and
time overruns is considered adequate. Cost estimates for construction super-
vision, detailed engineering and technical assistance have been based on
experience during the Second and Third Highway Projects; cost estimates for
equipment were based on suppliers' recent quotations. Direct foreign exchange
costs are the c.i.f. costs of imported materials, equipment and machinery,
construction equipment depreciation, foreign contractors' overhead and profit,
and anticipated foreign consulting services. Depreciation costs have been
calculated from consultant and MPH estimates of the depreciation on typical
inventories of imported construction equipment which foreign and domestic
contractors would require for civil works. Indirect foreign exchange costs
consist of locally processed materials, such as bitumen, reinforcing steel and
cement, for which raw materials or equipment will have to be imported.
Estimates of the required quantities and import content of these materials were
also prepared by the design consultants and checked by MPH and the Mission.
During negotiations, final cost estimates for the project were agreed with the
Government.
E. Project Implementation
3.29      MPH, assisted by qualified consultants, will be responsible for
implementation of the project. The technical assistance component for the
provincial roads program will be the responsibility of MLGC]), which will
coordinate assistance to the various provincial authorities. MPWTC will be
responsible for the technical assistance component for transport planning
advisory services. The project, to be executed over a three and one-half
year period, should be completed at the end of 1982. A schedule showing the
implementation phases for each project component is attached as Chart 2.
Road works, and the road maintenance and restoration components will all
require three years to execute.  During negotiations, the Government confirmed
the irnplemleni:aLri- schedule and agreed: (i) to submit regular quarterly
progress reports to the Bank; (ii) to monitor overall implementation of the
project; and (iii) to prepare a completion report witin six months of the
Closing Date.



- 28 -
(i) Availability of Local Funds and Budgeting.
3.30      As noted in para. 2.34, implementation of the Third Highway Project
suffered in 1977 due to a lack of local funds. The problem was largely due
to: (i) delay lj MPH in preparing budget requests; (ii) poor presentation by
MPH at budget hearings; (iii) lack of a close working relationship with the
Ministry of the Budget (MB); (iv) the poor fiscal position of the Government;
and (v) administrative delays in release of budgeted funds. In order to
avoid repetition of this problem, improved budgeting by MPH and prompt
releases by the MB for already approved programs are necessary. On its
part, the MPH has been requested to:
(a) undertake detailed budgeting exercises on a three-year rolling
basis in cooperation with the staff directly responsible for
particular projects, including Bank-funded projects; and
(b) improve presentation of budget requests with proper analysis
and justification of programmed projects.
3.31      The fiscal position of the national government improved in
1978, but delays in releasing funds still persist. Therefore, the following
matters, agreed with MPH, were confirraed with the Government, and have been
included as covenants in the Loan Agreement:
(a) MPH will perform the tasks outlined in para. 3.30 (a) and (b); and
(b) MPH will make specific budgetary provisions for the implementation
of all project components.
3.32      The Ministry of the Budget was represented in the loan negotiations
and agreed to the budgetary obligations to be assumed under the Loan Agreement.
(ii)  Road Construction and Improvement
3.33      Implementation of the road construction component of the Second
and Third Highway projects was overseen by the IBRD Project Office in
MPH. This office, reporting directly to the Minister of MPH, was assisted by
a Bank highway engineer seconded to MPH. During the preparation of the
Fourth Highway Project, it was foreseen that the same office would supervise,
monitor, and coordinate the road construction component. However, upon the
return of the Bank engineer in November 1978, MPH decided to incorporate the
IBRD Project Office into BCM and have BCM supervise the construction of the
project roads as part of BCI's general functions. This proposal was a matter
of some concern as the BCM has demonstrated a lack of experience and competence
in supervising the design consultants' work for the project roads. This
problem was discussed with the Minister of Public Highways who commissioned a
short-term (3 months) study on MPH' s organizational structure (Chart LA).
The study, undertaken by consultants Roy Jorgensen (USA), was completed in
September 1978. Prior to negotiations, the study proposals and recommendations
were    reviewed and discussed with the Government with a view to agreeing on
suitable organizational arrangements which would attain the long-term objective
of improving the MPH's capability, while not adversely affecting the imple-
mentation of the Project. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the
timing and details of implementing organizational changes in MPH.   In order



- 29 -
to implement the policy of decentralizing authority and responsibility, and
to strengthen its central management, MPH has decided to institute certain
organizational changes in accordance with the recommendations contained in
the organizational and management Study. Some of the more important improve-
ments include: (a) delegation of authority and responsibility by the Minister
to Deputy and Assistant Ministers; (b) division of BCM into two bureaus, the
Bureau of Construction (BOC) and the Bureau of Maintenance (BOM); which would
ensure proper attention to aliainternance by separating responsibilities,
together with appropriate personnel changes to strengthen both these important
bureaus; and (c) transfer of the design and construction supervisory functions
from the central office to the Regional offices to the maximum extent possible
(Chart lB).
3.34      Road construction and improvement works have been tentatively
divided into eigh-: contracts for the national roads and four for minor roads.
Cost estimates for individual contracts range from US$3.0 million to US$6.0
million equivalent: for national roads, and from US$500,000 to US$1,300,000
equivalent for minor roads. These amounts assure economies of scale on the
larger works, as well as providing opportunities to smaller local contractors.
Some 47 contractors, local, local/foreign joint ventures, and foreign contrac-
tors have applied for prequalification: evaluation of these applications is
now underway./l Local contractors, including those in joint ventures, have
won most of the contracts for the Second and Third Highway Projects.  It is
too early to generalize or to fully evaluate contractors' performance on the
Third Highway contract works, but local contractors for the Second Highway
project roads (with one exception) have performed satisfactorily. The
bidding schedule has been arranged to allow unsuccessful bidders to bid on
subsequent contracts. It is expected that contracts for the project roads
will be awarded about six months after the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
(iii) Road Maintenance and Restoration (Civil Works)
3.35      The road maintenance component will be implemented by the BOM of
MPH assisted by expatriate consultants provided under the project. The road
restoration component will be prepared by MPH (and regions) but the work
financed by the Bank will be executed by local contractors.  The procedures MPH
agreed to adopt for the implementation of these components are detailed in
Annex 2. During negotiations, an action program for the maintenance and road
restoration works was agreed with the Government.
(iv) Maintenanice Equipment
3.36      The additional road mainteLaance equipment provided under the
project, includintg an initial stock of spare parts, should enable MPH to
carry out routine uiainteriance on the national road system in an adequate
manner up to the er;d of 1982. Procurement of equipment by BOE should not
present a problem as BOE has a capab:Le staff which will be assisted by
/1   Unsatisfactory performance by certain contractors on the Third Highway
Project (Loan 1353-PH) and the Rural Development Project, Mindoro
(Loan 1102-PH) emphasizes the need for much more careful evaluation
of prequalification applications by MPH. During negotiations, agreement
was reached on improved prequalificationl evaluation procedures.



- 30 -
consultants. However, some BOE yards and workshops are cluttered with
unsalvagable equipment and machinery, and as a consequence, MPH depots and
workshops lack working space and room to repair equipment.
3.37      The disposal of obsolete or unrepairable equipment has been a
continuing problem to MPH because of the cumbersome procedures required by the
Commission on Audit (COA), whereby individual components of each piece of
equipment or machinery must be accounted for by an on-site auditor before
COA will certify any equipment for disposal. It is unlikely that COA would
change its present time-consuming procedures for disposal of equipment in the
near future. However, in the interim period MPH could remove its old equip-
ment from depots and workshops to a publicly-owned or rented storage area to
regain working space. Accordingly, assurances were obtained that M4PH
will remove all non-serviceable equipment and scrap parts no later than
March, 1979 and that such equipment will be regularly removed thereafter.
In addition, during negotiations, an action program for the disposal of such
equipment at an increased rate was agreed with the Government.
(v) Construction and Improvement of Workshops
3.38      Civil works for the construction of workshops are expected to be
carried out by local contractors. The local building industry is both competent
and competitive and in view of the experience thus far on the Third Highway
Project, no difficulties are expected in receiving an adequate number of
bids. Contracts for the various workshops will range from about US$2.5
million equivalent for the larger base shop complexes to about US$800,000
equivalent for the smaller area shops.
(vi)  Technical Assistance to '41,GCD
3.39      Since MLGCD is a new executing agency which has not dealt with the
Bank before, all procedures, responsiblities and reporting requirements were
explained to the concerned staff. MLGCD will provide the counterpart staff
to the technical assistance team, which will be placed under the supervision
of the Deputy M4inister's Office. During negotiations, terms of reference for
the consultancy services were agreed with the Government.
(vii) Labor Intensive Construction Methods
3.40      In carrying out the roa(l restoration and maintenance components,
labor-intensive methods are expected to be applied in clearing ditches,
controlling vegetation, and transporting and spreading materials. In order
to help improve eft-ciency and identify new areas where improved labor-based
methods could be applied, the MPH regions and districts will be assisted by
the technical assistance consultants. The Bank's CPS is expected to provide
addtio0ia  ;v3sistance in determining means, methods, and practices of increas-
ing the labor/capital ratio wherever appropriate i rcoad ialo'Cenance and
restoration works.
F. Procurement, Implementation Schedule, and Right-of-Way
3.41      Contracts for construction and improvement of the national roads,
amounting to about US$44 million equivalent, will be awar(led to prequalified
contractors on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement". Contracts for the construction
and improvement of feeder roads, totalling about US$3.5 million equivalent,



-- 31 -
and contracts for the Bank-financed road restoration works, totalling abomli
US$30 million equivalent (average size US$0.5-1.5 million equivalent), wiLl be
awarded to prequalified contractors cn the basis of local competitive bloing,
under procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The balance of the road restoration
program (Table 3.2) will be carried out by MPH, with the cost borne entirely
by the Government, partly by force account and partly using local contractors
chosen on the basis of local competitive bidding.  Civil works contracts for
the construction and extension of workshops, including installation of
workshop equipment, totalling about US$39 million equivalent, will be awarded
to prequalified contractors on the basis of locaL competitive bidding under
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Foreign contractors operating in the
country will be allowed to participate in all local bidding for Bank-financed
project components.
3.42      Weighbridges, workshop equipment and machinery, soils and materials
testing equipment, tools, road maintenance equiprient, and parts and components
for existing equipment with a total cost of about US$33 million equivalent
will be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accor-
dance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement".  A preference limited to
15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the customs duty, whichever is
lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
Procurement of off-the-shelf items, each costing less than US$15,000 equiva-
lent and procurement of hand tools for road maintenance may follow normal
Government procurement procedures and conditions which are acceptable
to the Bank: the total amount of such purchases should not exceed US$500,000
equivalent.
3.43      Civil works contracts for road construction and improvement are
expected to be awarded during the fourth quarter of 1979 and are scheduled to
be completed within 36 months after start of work. Contractors would be
responsible for maintaining their respective works for a 12-month period
after completion. The technical assistance component would commence in
January 1980 and would be completed by the end of 1981. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with the Government on the implementation schedule
(Chart 2) and on the arrangements for appropriately timed progress reports
depending on the requirements of the various project components.
3.44      The Government acquires right-of-way by negotiation as far as
possible, although it has adequate compulsory powers, if needed. There have
been cases in previous projects where delay in acquiring rights-of-way
has caused disruption of scheduling. Confirmation was obtained during
negotiations that the Government will take action to make availablE? the
right-of-way on each road section before awarding the contract for its
construction and will consult with the Bank prior to award of contracts in
cases where other considerations make it desirable to begin work before all
right-of-way has been acquired.
G. Disbursements
3.45      Disbursements from thie loan account wil:L be on the basis of:
(a) 55%, of total construction and improvement costs for roads; (b) 22% of
total construction costs for workshops; (c) 30% oi- total costs for road
restoration work carried out through contract; (d) 100% of c.i.f. cost of
imported equipment, spare parts, tools, machinery and components, if pro-



- 32 -
cured directly abroad, or 65% if procured locally;/1 (e) 100% of the exfactory
cost of equipment, spare parts, tools, and components produced locally;
and (f) 100% of the cost of consulting services, whether expatriate or local.
Withdrawals for expenditures on the road restoration works to be carried out
by contract over the three years commencing in January 1980 will be made only
after the program has been reviewed and agreed to by the Bank for each year.
During loan negotiations, agreement on a schedule of estimated disbursements
was reached with the Government (Table 3.6).
H. Environmental Aspects
3.46      No environmental or ecological problems are anticipated as a result
of this project. This conclusion is reinforced by the fact that there will
be basically no changes in the alignment of project roads to be improved
under the Bank loan. On the contrary, improvement of the various road
sections and the institution of proper routine maintenance will improve the
environment by keeping down noise and dust. Wider and better constructed
shoulders will also contribute to road safety.
3.47      Design of the drainage for the road, including the structures, has
been carried out in collaboration with the National Irrigation Authority
(NIA) so that the works will not cause or aggravate flooding or erosion.
Road construction, improvement, maintenance and restoration will provide
better surfacing, making travel much easier and more comfortable for motorists.
Moreover, as the project roads will largely follow existing alignments, this
will minimize disturbances to property and persons.
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.01      The major quantifiable benefits of the project will result from
the provision of more economical transportation in areas where an exist-
ing or potential transport demand has been identified. Project roads will
serve areas which are predominantly agricultural, thus providing the local
population with opportunities to:
(a)  improve their bargaining position vis-a-vis truckers (who tend to
follow good roads), thereby obtaining higher prices for their
products;
(b)  improve the quality and quantity of their yields through prompt,
low cost delivery of agricultural inputs; and
(c)  intensify land use.
4.02      The primary and secondary road networks in the project areas
although generally adequate in coverage are in a state of bad deterioration.
By addressing the need for maintenance and improvement of these roads, the
/1 About one fourth of the total is expected to be procured locally.



- 33 -
proposed project supports the Government's strategy of reconstructing deterio-
rated roads (where traffic warrants), as opposed to building new, high-standard
highways. Feasibility studies indicate that, for most road sections, the
optimum first stage of improvement would be to pave or gravel the road
largely on the present alignment, with the addition of adequate drainage.
B. Influence Areas of Project Roads
4.03      The six national road sections proposed for improvement are
scattered among the southern islands of the archipelago: two (42 km) are
located in Southern Luzon, two (82 km) on Panay, two (79 km) on Negros, one
(59 km) on Cebu, and one (83 km) on Mindanao.  Three feeder roads (19 km) are
located on Negros, one (23.6 km) on Cebu, and another two (20 km) are on
Mindanao. The project roads will benefit about 1.8 million inhabitants in
the influence area of over 11,000 sq km.
(a) Tabaco-Tiwi and Tabaco-Ligao Roads (Southern Luzon)
4.04      These roads, which cross flat rice land, serve the tourist
area of Mayon Volcano and the hot springs in Tiwi. The development of
geothermal power in the area is expected to generate further economic
activity.
4.05      Tabaco is the major market town in the area where local abaca
products (straw handicrafts), vegetables, rice and copra are brought for
shipment to Manila. The project roads will serve a population of 185,000
whose annual average per capita income is estimated at P 1,100 (US$150).
Traffic on the two roads ranges from 500 to 1,000 vehicles per day (vpd),
with weighted averages of 470 and 890 vpd respectively. Traffic on both
roads is expected to increase at an average rate of 5% per annum.
(b) Jaro-Calinog and Sigma-Roxas Roads (Panay)
4.06      The road connecting the towns of Jaro and Calinog will serve
the local population who produce mainly sugar cane, corn and rice. Much of
the local truck traffic consists of moving sugar cane to a new sugar mill in
Calinog. The nearby Panay Railway carries only a small amount of traffic,
due to limited capacity and unsafe conditions. The population in the influence
area, is estimated at 460,000, is mostly located in Jaro near the city of
Iloilo, with an estimated per capita income of P 1,330 (US$180). Traffic
ranges from 4,500 vpd near Jaro to 430 vpd near Calinog, with a weighted
average of 1,210 vpd. Traffic is expected to increase by 6.6% per annum.
4.07      The Sigma-Roxas road provides access to a number of fishing
villages on the north coast of Panay. Some fish products are flown
from Roxas to Manila, but most are moved by truck to Iloilo and then
shipped to Manila. The road will affect a population of about 110,000
with an annual per capita income of about P 1,550 (US$210). Average daily
traffic ranges from 810 to 1,920 vehicles with a weighted average of 1,160,
projected to increase at 6.6% per annum.



- 34 -
(c) Silay-Fabrica and Fabrica-Escalante Roads (Negros)
4.08      The Silay-Fabrica-Escalante road begins at the end of the Third
Highway Project in Silay and continues through several towns. Major economic
activities in the area are sugar cane production and related industries for
the processing of raw cane. There is a large sugar mill in Fabrica, where
severe traffic congestion occurs during the harvest (October-March). Present
road conditions are very bad, with poor drainage and cracked surfaces. The
improved road sections will benefit about 600,000 local inhabitants who have
an annual per capita income of P 1,240 (US$168). Traffic ranges from 1,410
to 2,610 vpd on the Silay-Fabrica section, with a weighted average of 1,920;
this is expected to grow by 7% per annum. Traffic on Fabrica-Escalante is
somewhat less; it ranges from 910 vpd to 1,240 vpd, with a weighted average
of 1,200 vpd.
(d) Carmen-San Remegio Road (Cebu)
4.09      The road starts at the market town of Carmen, goes through the
densely populated towns of Catman, Sogod and Bogo, and ends at the Hagnaya Port
in the town of San Remigio. The area's major economic activities are
fishing and agriculture, with significant crops of rice, sugar cane, and corn.
Abundant limestone is also found in the area. The proposed road follows the
existing alignment except at bridge approaches where the curves are very
sharp. In rolling and mountainous areas, only the pavement structure
would be added. In the low lying areas, an embankment would be constructed
to obtain proper drainage. The proposed pavement would be 6.1 m wide with
double bituminous surface treatment. The improved road will serve about
200,000 rural inhabitants whose per capita income is estimated at P 1,130
(US$150). Present traffic on the road is about 470 vpd, which is expected to
increase by an annual average rate of 5%.
(e) Digos-General Santos Road (Mindanao)
4.10      This road is situated in a rapidly developing area having a high
rate of im migration from the Visayan islands. Pineapples and bananas are
grown in the influence area and transported over the road for export at the
port of General Santos (being expanded under the Bank's Second Port Project).
Soil in the area is fertile, and farmers are expanding production of rice,
corn and sugar cane by cultivating mountain slopes. The population in the
influence area is about 170,000 with an estimated annual per capita income of
about P 2,000 (US$270). Traffic is about 1,300 vpd near Digos and 540 near
General Santos, with a weighted average of 700 vpd, estimated to grow by 6.8%
per annum.
(f) Old Sagay and Bolanon Feeder Roads (Negros)
4.11      These are the only access roads serving intensively cultivated
sugar cane areas and their surface condition is very poor. The new roads
will benefit about 20,000 local inhabitants whose annual per capita income
is estimated at P 1,000 (US$135). Average daily traffic is 280 vehicles on
Old Sagay and 125 on Bolanon.



- 35 -
(g) Escalante-Danao Provincial Road (Negros)
4.12      This road serves as a feeder to the Fabrica-Escalante Road being
proposed for improvement under the project, and will provide improved
mobility for a population of about 10,000 who inhabit the Old Escalante-Danao
Port area northeast of the market town of Escalante. The original asphalt
pavement of the existing road has almaost disappeared. The improved road will
provide economical transportation to these rural inhabitants in marketing
their sugar cane, rice and fish. The volume of traffic is estimated at 500
vpd, and is expected to grow at 4% p.a.
(h) Anonang-Daanbantayan Feeder Road (Cebu)
4.13      The road will serve as a feeder to the Carmen-San Remigio Road at
the junction of Anonang village located in the municipality of Bogo.
It traverses areas of flat and rolling terrain, including several well popu-
lated centers, and ends at the commercial and fishing town of Daanbantagan.
Sugar cane and corn are grown in the influence area. This road is impassable
during heavy rains due to flooding at bridge crossings caused by inadequate
cross drainage. Under the project, the present old and dilapidated swing
steel bridge will be replaced with a reinforced concrete bridge, and temporary
wooden bridges will be replaced with concrete pipe culverts to provide all
weather access. The level of existing traffic is in the 100-225 vpd range,
with a weighted average of 150 vpd which, after improvement, is expected to
grow at 5% p.a.
(i) San Vicente-Malalog, Malungon Feeder Roads (Mindanao)
4.14      These two roads feed into the General Santos-Digos road and con-
nect with fishing villages and corn and sugar cane farms. The present
roads are poorly gravelled and graded tracks, which are motorable only in the
dry season. Improved access will open up more areas for cultivation, bene-
fitting a population of about 10,000, with an annual per capita income of
P 1,200 (US$162). Traffic is about 405 vpd on San Vincente-Malalog and 200
vpd on Malungon.
C. Economic Analysis
4.15     Economic analysis of the project roads contained in the feasibility
studies completed in mid-1975, was carried out by Norconsult in association
with Hoff and Overgaard (Norway/Denmark). An updated economic analysis was
carried out in September 1977 and November 1978 by the MPH's planning unit,
assisted by an expatriate consultant and the post-appraisal mission. The
weighted average economic rate of return for the road construction, main-
tenance and restoration components is 50%.
(a) Traffic Forecast
4.16      The consultant's estimated traffic assignment, expected volumes
and growth rates were based on MPH traffic counts undertaken for the feasi-
bility studies. In October-December 1976, additional counts were carried out
for all project roads and supplemented by follow-up counts in July-August 1977.
Annual growth rates anticipated between 1981 and 2000 vary: from about 7% in
Panay, Negros, and Mindanao to about 5% in Luzon and Cebu. Similarly high



- 36 -
growth rates are anticipated on the feeder roads in Negros, Cebu, and Mindanao
(Table 4.1).
4.17      These rates which are based on past trends have been adjusted for
expected increases in GNP, population, and regional per capita income.
Generated or induced traffic is expected to increase total traffic by 10-30%
with the opening of the new project roads. These estimates were derived from
studies of earlier cases which measured elasticity of demand for road transport
as a function of reduced operating costs. Rates were adjusted to take
account of industrial development potential and activities such as rural
settlement, fishing, timber and tourism. Traffic diverted from other roads
and from the Panay Railway is not expected to be significant.
(b) Construction and Improvement of National Roads
4.18      Benefits from the proposed construction and improvement of the
project roads were determined as the difference in road user costs with and
without the project, for both normal and generated traffic. Benefits also
include travel time savings restricted to working time, and reduction in road
maintenance costs. Average vehicle operating costs for each road (Tables 4.2
and 4.3) were assessed for different types of vehicles. Savings on the new
improved roads range between 15% and 35%, taking into account road standards,
traffic density, speed, and side friction. If passengers' time is included,
there are slightly higher savings of 16% to 36%. The savings in working
time for passenger vehicles were quantified on the basis of 6.40 pesos/hr.
per average car, 3.60 per jeepneys, and 11.80 per buses. Working time
savings included in fixed costs were quantified for the driver and helpers of
buses and trucks.
4.19      Economic returns (ERRs) and sensitivity analyses are shown in
Table 4.4. Economic returns for national roads, calculated over an assumed
20-year service life of the investment, vary between 24% and 32%. Sensi-
tivity of the ERRs was tested by varying construction costs by + 15%, and
benefits by + 15%. Under the pessimistic assumption of an increase in
construction costs concurrent with a decrease in benefits, ERRs would be
between 17% and 21%. Exclusion of passenger time savings would reduce the
above returns by about 2 to 4 percentage points. The overall rate of return
is 25% without time savings, and 27% with time savings.
4.20      For tlle typical road, total benefits following upgrading would
be distributed among various users as follows: cars and jeepneys 10% each,
buses about 30%, and trucks 50%. The proportion of benefits accruing
to road users would gradually change over the project life because light
vehicle traffic is expected to grow faster than bus and truck traffic.
However, the shift would be gradual, and trucks and buses would still
account for 75% of the benefits towards the end of the assumed service
life.
(c) Construction and Improvement of Feeder Roads
4.21      The six feeder roads included in the Project will help develop rela-
tively isolated regions with dense populations (Negros and Cebu), and regions
with a potential for new rural settlements (Mindanao). The present condition
of the roads is very poor, and deterioration is accentuated by the increase in



- 37 -
traffic. Of the assessed benefits, about 65% represent savings in vehicle
operating costs due to improved conditions on the newly paved or gravelled
roads compared with the existing rough earth or gravel surfaces. About 15%
results from reduction in road maintenance costs, and about 10% each from
redaction in travel time and generation of new traffic. Average vehicle
operating costs take into account road standards, terrain condition, vehicle
speed, and passengers' time. Vehicle operating costs per km will be reduced
by 20-45%. As the roads will closely follow existing alignments, there will
be negligible benefits from distance reduction, but there will be some
savings from reduced travel time due to increased vehicle speed. The new
roads would also bring other nonquantifiable benefits, including quicker and
Improved services and reduction of the heavy dust resulting from increasing
traffic on the existing gravel surfaces. Costs and benefits are calculated
over an assumed service life of 10 years for the gravel roads and 20 years
for the double bituminous surfacing. On this basis, returns range from 16%
to 27%, with an overall ERR of 23%. Sensitivity tests showed that returns
would be reduced by about two to three percentage points when construction
costs were varied by + 15% and benefits by + 15%. Under the pessimistic
assumption of a 15% increase in contruction costs concurrent with a 25%
decrease in benefits, the overall EIRR would be 16%. The weighted average ERR
for both the national and feeder roads is 27% with time savings and 25%
without time savings.
4.22      The analysis provides only a partial picture of the benefits that
would be gained from the project roads. Improved roads would provide the
rural inhabitants with better access to health and educational facilities as
well as to off-farm employment in nearby towns during the off-season months.
Timely and low-cost delivery of agricultural inputs would provide farmers
with opportunities to increase both the quantity and quality of their yields.
(d) Road Maintenance and Restoration Works
(i) Routine Maintenance (1980-84)
4.23      The economic evaluation of the proposed maintenance program is
based on the difference in costs to the economy, assuming that only minimum
maintenance is undertaken without thle project, compared to the proposed
program being executed with the project. This analysis is based only on
routine maintenance: the costs and benefits of periodic maintenance have
been included in the economic evaluation of the project's road construction
component. The costs of routine maintenance include: (a) the purchase
of new equipment, parts, and components; (b) construction or improvement of
workshops and workshop tools and machinery; and (c) estimated incremental
labor and materials required for the maintenance work under the project.
These costs are compared with the more limited maintenance work that would be
undertaken without the project. In addition to these costs, 15% of the total
costs were assumed to be incurred annually for washout and erosion control.
4.24      The quantified benefits include vehicle operating cost savings that
would be derived by highway users through the improvement of road conditions,
but in order to assure conservative estimates, benefits do not include
passenger time savings obtainable from reduced travel time. Other benefits
which were not quantified include time savings associated with vehicle



- 38 -
operating costs (wages, interest, insurance, and administration costs) which
would be obtainable through the prevention of road closures, and protection
of road investment which would accrue through the prevention of premature
reconstruction.
Procedures for Estimating Vehicle Operating Cost Savings
4.25      About 22,300 km of national roads will be included in the (1980-84)
maintenance program. The distribution of the national road network according
to surface type and condition has been established with the assistance of
consultants on the basis of the inventoried road condition data compiled by
MPH (Table 4.5).
4.26      In order to avoid double counting, the physical targets included in
the road restoration program (para. 4.30) have been deducted from the total
road network included in the routine maintenance program.
4.27      According to the recent MPH study, which evaluated empirically the
impact of poor maintenance on pavement condition changes, various types of
roads would deteriorate from good to fair, fair to bad and bad to very bad in
2 to 15 years' time if little maintenance is carried out (Table 4.6). Using
the results of this study, an assessment was made of the impact of poor
maintenance (without the project) on the pavement condition of the recently
inventoried road network. The varying degrees of deterioration, assumed to
occur without the project, were applied to the dl value system (established
for various types of road surfaces, conditions, and vehicles) in order to
calculate the vehicle operating cost savings that would accrue from improved
maintenance with the project (Table 4.7).
4.28      Existing traffic volumes on the inventoried road network were
obtained from traffic surveys conducted in 1976 and 1977 in connection with
the National Transport System Study, and from various feasibility studies.
Traffic growth rates for passenger cars, jeepneys and buses were estimated on
the basis of expected population and real income growth and from passenger
transport demand-income elasticities derived from the household surveys of
1971 and 1976. Truck growth rates are based on the past trends as adjusted
for projected GDP rate of increase.
4.29      The internal rate of return related to the maintenance of national
roads over the next five-year period is estimated at 68%. A 10% increase in
benefits would yield an ERR of 87%, while a 10% increase in costs would
reduce the ERR to 53%. The most pessimistic assumption of a 20% reduction in
benefits together with a 20% increase in costs would still yield an ERR of
38%. This indicates that road maintenance, at a low cost per km, is a highly
rewarding investment deserving the highest priority in the road development
program. Furthermore, without a maintenance program, considerable resources
would be required in a few years to rehabilitate the road network. The
savings of these resources, not taken into account in calculating the benefits
of the proposed program, make the maintenance program even more necessary.
(ii) Road Restoration (1980-82)
4.30      The road sections included in the road restoration program (Table 3.2)
have "bad" and "very bad" road surfaces which would further deteriorate until
they become impassable and eventually require complete reconstruction. To



- r39 -
estimate the benefits of road restoration, it was assumed that the project
would improve road sections from either "bad" or "very bad" to "fair" condi-
tions. It was further assumed that the impact of road restoration would last
two years for gravel roads and three years for DBST/l or AC/2 roado if no
maintenance is carried out.  To avoid double counting benefits, rather short
project lifetimes were assumed for different types of road restoration work
(Table 4.8).
4.31      The major quantifiable benefits are savings in vehicle operating
costs due to improved road conditions. The results of ERR calculations are
shown in Table 4.9. The proposed road restoration program is well justified,
with an ERR of 43% with time savings, and 25% without time savings. Even
under the most pessimistic assumptions, the ERR would not fall under 20%.
The weighted average ERR for the road maintenance and restoration components
is 61%.
(e)       Weighbridges
4.32      The weighbridge element of the project was not quantified; however,
it will have an important impact on preserving past and future highway
investments by helping to avoid a rapid deterioration of the highway network
through use of overloaded vehicles such as mineral ores and log trucks,
thereby preserving past and future highway investments.
D. Risks
4.33      The risks, in terms of potential economic benefits, are normally in
the estimates of traffic growth rates and savings in vehicle operating costs
and have been accounted for. The main risk in the proposed project concerns
the quality of implementation performance of MPH in carrying out the mainte-
nance and road restoration programs. The project provides for organizational
changes, technical assistance, training and agreed action programs which
should help to ensure that performance continues to improve.
/1   Double bituminous surface treatment.
/2   Asphalt concrete.



- 40 -
5. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.o1      During loan negotiations, it was agreed with the Government, and
included as covenants in the Loan Agreement, that the Government will:
(a)  annually update the nationwide national road inventory which
includes detailed road condition data (para. 2.05);
(b)  continue the collection and analysis of traffic data on national
roads (para. 2.08);
(c)  review the sources of highway revenues with a view towards deter-
mining the adequacy of road user charges levied (para. 2.18);
(d)  employ qualified and experienced consultants, acceptable to the
Bank, to: (i) supervise road construction and improvements,
(para. 3.24); and (ii) design and supervise construction of
workshops (para. 3.25);
(e)  dispose of, by sale or other appropriate manner, all non-serviceable
equipment, scrap parts and components by not later than December 31,
1979 and thereafter dispose of periodically all items of equipment
as they reach the end of their economic life in accordance with an
annual program satisfactory to the Bank. As an interim measure,
thte Government will remove and suitably store such equipment and
parts away from its active workshop areas to relieve and/or prevent
congestion. This removal will be completed no later than March 31,
1979 (para. 3.37);
(f)  continue to implement its Five Year Road Maintenance Program,
including the road restoration component, in accordance with a
time-bound action program satisfactory to the Bank and continue to
furnish to the Bank by October 31 of each year beginning in 1979
and continuing until the completion of the Road Maintenance
Program, an annual program satisfactory to the Bank of physical
targets and budget requirements for implementation of the Road
Maintenance Program, including the road restoration component, for
the following year (para. 3.35);
(g)  complete the road restoration component of its Five Year Road
Maintenance Program not later than June 30, 1983 providing
adequate funds for the purpose, including that portion not financed
by the Bank (paras. 3.35, 3.41);
(h)  continue to provide the Bank with a comprehensive semi-annual
progress report on its Road Maintenance Program including the
Road Restoration component (para. 3.43);
(i)  continue to implement and expand coverage of its vehicle dimension
and axle load control program and take necessary steps to strictly
enforce the appropriate laws and regulations (para. 3.14);



- 41 -
(j) undertake detailed budgeting exercises on a three-year rolling
basis, improve budget presentation, and make specific provisions
for the implementation of all project components (para. 3.31);
(k)  arran,e for timely acquisition of land, for right-of-way for
each road section and workshop site prior to awarding contracts
or consult with the Bank in advance in cases where it is desired
to proceed before all right-of-way has been acquired (para. 3.44);
and
(1) utilize evaluation methocds, standards and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank in determining the list of contractors to be pre-
qualified to bid on project components (para. 3.34).
5.02      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on:
(a) an action program for the implementation of the road maintenance
and restoration components of the project (paras. 2.31, 3.35);
(b) road maintenance and workshop equipment, tools and machinery, parts
and components for existing equipment, (paras. 3.12, 3.13), weigh-
bridges (para. 3.14), and soils and materials testing equipment
(para. 3.15) to be procured under the project;
(c) terms of reference and scheduling for consulting services to be
provided to MPH for technical assistance in improving its operations
(para. 3.19);
(d)  terms of reference and scheduling for consulting services to be
provided to MLGCD for the study of a rural road development program
(para. 3.20, 3.39);
(e) the cost estimates for the project (paras. 3.26-3.28) and the
schedule of estimated disbursements (para. 3.45);
(f) the timing and details of implementing organizational changes in
MPH (para. 3.33);
(g) a project implementation schedule, and arrangements for reporting
progress including preparation of a completion report within six
months of the Closing Date (para. 3.29; 3.43);
(g) an annual program for removal and disposition of all nonserviceable
equipment and spare parts from depots and workshops (para. 3.37);
(h)  the location of the weighbridges to be procured under the project,
and an implementation schedule for the vehicle dimension and axle
load control program throughout the country (para. 3.14); and
(i) detailed arrangements for implementation of the overseas technical
training program, including technical disciplines selected and
regulations governing the program (para. 3.16).



- 42 -
On the basis of agreement on the foregoing matters, the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$100 million equivalent (representing about 49% of the
total cost) for a period of 20 years, including a five-year grace period.
The Borrower would be the Republic of the Philippines.



-43-
ANNEX 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
A-1 Ten-Year Infrastructure Development Programs, 1977-86, two volumes
I. Physical Targets
II. Capital Investment Requirements, March 1976, by PPDO of MPWTC.
A-2 Physical Perspective Plan for the Philippines, 1976, by PPDO of
MPWTC.
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
I. Studies
B-1 Road Feasibility Studies II, two text volumes and six appendix
volumes, June 1975, by Norconsult AS and Hoff & Overgaard
(Norway/Denmark).
B-2 Five-Year Maintenance Program, 1976-80, text volume and two
appendix volumes, April 1975, by Kampsax/Berger (Denmark/USA).
B-3 Highway Maintenance Manual, May 1975 by Kampsax/Berger (Denmark/USA).
B-4 Organization and Management Study, September 1978 by Roy Jorgensen
Associates, Inc. (USA).
II. Detailed Engineering Reports
B-5 IBRD Highway Projects Guidelines, June 1976, by Scott Wilson,
Kirkpatrick & Partners (SWKP), General Consultants (UK).
B-6 General Specifications for Roads and Bridges in the Philippines,
1976, by SWKP.
B-7 General Conditions of Contract, 1976 by SWKP.
B-8 Tender Documents, June 19715, by SWKP.
B-9 Design Drawings, Tender Documents, and Engineers Estimates for
5 base and 23 area workshops being constructed or improved
under the Third Highway Project.
B-10 Design Drawings, Tender Documents, Price Analyses and Engineers
Estimates for the Project Road Construction Contracts.
Sept./Oct. 1977 by F.F. Crluz/Sauti (Philippines/Italy), Certeza/
Kampsax (Philippines/Denmark), EDCOP/Berger (Philippines/USA),
Trans-Asia (Philippines) and MPH Regions V, VI and XI.



-44-
ANNEX 1
Page 2
III. Government Reports
B-11 Updated General Data Required for Appraisal (Philippines Highway
Projects), July 1977, by MPH.
B-12 Economic Re-evaluation of Road Component for Fourth Highway Project,
September 1977, January 1978 and January 1979 by PPDO of MPH.
C. Selected Working Papers
C-1 Draft Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services
(a) Construction supervision of project roads.
(b) Design and construction supervision of workshops.
(c) Technical Assistance advisory services to MPH.
(d) Technical Asssitance advisory services to MLGCD.
(e) Technical Assistance advisory services to MPWTC.
C-2 Estimated Cost and Benefit Streams for the Project Roads
C-3  Estimated Cost and Benefit Streams for the Five Year Maintenance Program
C-4 Detailed List of Required Soils and Materials Testing Equipment
C-5 Five Year Road Maintenance Program
(a) List of road maintenance equipment being procured under Third
Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH);
(b) List of workshops being constructed or improved under the Third
Highway Project;
(c) List of spare parts, workshop tools and machinery, hand tools,
and parts and components for existing equipment being procured
under the Third Highway Project;
C-6 Road Restoration Program
(a) List of road restoration projects completed in 1977/78 under
Third Highway Project;
(b) List of road restoration projects being undertaken in 1979
under the Third Highway Project.
January 1979



_. 45 _                                ANNEX 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Procedures for the Implementation of the Road
Maintenance and Restoration Components
1.        The tasks to be performed by the Bureau of Maintenance (BOM) at MPH
Headquarters are as follows:
(a) assign a high priority to normal maintenance works in its budgetary
allocations;
(b) issue annual guidelines on maintenance procedures, techniques,
and targets in accordance with Kampsax/Berger recommendations
as modified in consultation with the Bank;
(c) establish selection criteria and a priority rating system to
determine road restoration works by the Regions;
(d)  review and approve regional maintenance and road restoration
programs;
(e)  expedite the release of funds and equipment to Regional Offices;
(f) help strengthen manageria.l capabilities by providing staff, funds,
and training;
(g) strengthen and expand the inspectorate within MPH, by inviting
representatives of the Budget Commission, NEDA, regions and
districts to monitor implementation of the region' s maintenance and
restoration programs and to evaluate MPH performance based on road
inventory information; and
(h) provide performance incentives through the advancement of main-
tenance staff, and increase of funds for road construction in
areas where maintenance and restoration work has been performed
satisfactorily.
2.        At the local level, the Regional Offices should:
(a) obtain staff in sufficient: number and caliber;
(b)  annually update road inventories and traffic counts and use them as
a guide to performance;
(c)  prepare annual maintenance programs, including required equipment,
material, personnel and budgets.  A three-year maintenance program
to be executed during the project implementation period as agreed
with the Bank during negotiations should be adequately funded and
properly implemented.



- 46 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 2
(d) prepare detailed annual programs giving physical targets and budget
requirements for road restoration works to be implemented in
1980-82. Such programs should be submitted by October 31 of the
previous year for the Bank's review after approval by MPH headquarters,
and should include a list of road sections to be restored with
details of location, length, traffic data, standards and cost
estimates. The first report should be submitted by October 31,
1979;
(e) organize, execute and supervise the maintenance and road restoration
works; and
(f) limit the responsibility of district offices to maintenance.



FHIL1PPlNES
FOURTH HilGHdWAY PROJECT
Public Transport Investment Programs and Sources of Funds la
FY68-82
(P million)
Actual cash releases                                                                                              Planned /f
PY7 -7 8          Y5Y68-78                                                  FY79-82
Proga           Progrsm                                                   Program
Trunsoort Mode              FY68    FY69    FY70   FY71       PY72     FY73     FY74      FY75    FM76/n    FY77/f      FY78         Total     S       Tonal     z      FY79     FY80      FY81        FY02     Total       X
Highways                    235.9  183.8   414.4  231.2    354.1    530.7    609.4  1,339.5  2,879.7   1,618.5   1,946.0            1,723.7   72.2   10,343.2  73.7  2,000.0  2,050.0  2,100.0   2,250.0   8,400.0   58.4
Local /b                  193.1  180.6   346.8  215.7    303.9    473.1    546.2  1,120.5  2,470.6   1,545.0   1,281.1                                               1,312.9  1,392.4  1,621.6   1,777.4
Foreign /c /d              42.8    3.2    67.6   15.5      50.2      57.6     63.2    219.0    409.1        73.5     664.9                                             687.1    657.6    478.4       472.6
Airport 4 Navigation         11.4   33.3    48.5   33.4       72.7     56.5      87.0     57.1    307.6      211.8     473.0        1,049.5    9.7    1,392.3   9.9    468.0    491.0    500.0         500.0   1,959.0   13.6
Locul                      10.2   32.1    33.3   16.6      32.1      56.5     21.1      24.4    178.2      136.8     368.0                                             361.5    328.2    349.6       266.8
Foreign                     1.2    1.2    15.2   16.8       40.6       -      65.9      32.7    129.4       75.0     105.0                                             106.5    162.8    150.4       233.2
Port Works                   34.6   22.3    18.7   35.7       15.9     42.7     88.3    149.7    245.0       243.8     399.0        1,037.5    9.6    1,295.7   9.2    505.0    600.0    750.0         900.0   2,755.0   19.2       t
Local                      27.0   22.3    18.7   35.7       13.9     41.4     72.2    109.0    181.2       202.2     305.5                                             398.5    437.2    599.6       666.8
Foreign                     7.6     -        -      -        2.0      1.3      16.1     40.7     63.8       41.6      93.5                                             106.5    162.8    150.4       233.2
FOall=svn                      -      -       6.9      _       6.9     1.1       27.6     46.9    272.4      249.0     242.0          911.9            1,006.4   7.2    290.0    300.0    320.0        350.0   1,260.0    8.8
Local                        -      -       6.9     -         -      13.1      27.6     36.7    162.2      164.9     158.9       10,782.6    8.5                       254.0    244.0    269.2       275.8
torelgn                      -      -        -      -         -        -         -      10.2    110.2       84.1     [23.1           84.1  123.1                        36.0      56.0      50.8      74.2
Total                       281.9  239.4   488.5  300.3  1,310.1    455.8    657.5    831.6  3,704.7   2,323.1   3,100.0                              14,037.6 100.0  3,263.0  3.441.0  3,670.0   4,000.0  14,374.0  100.0
Local                     230.3  235.0   405.7  268.0  1,139.0    363.0    598.6    676.0  2,992.2   2,048.9   2,113.5                                               2,326.9  2,401.8  2,840.0   2,986.8
Foreign                    51.6    4.4    82.8   32.3    171.1       92.8     58.9    155.4    712.5       274.2     986.5                                             936.1  1,039.2    830.0   1,013.2
Ia tn 1978 pesos, cash releases represent replenishment of the  -ommne fund acco-nt or issued treusury wurrants
either as dir-ct paymeot to the creditnr nr deposit to the account of a disbursing officer of the
implementing agency.  Dishbrsement of cash expendioure represents actual payment to the creditor and
is made from either or both the common account and treasury warrants.  lash releases .ay be curried
nose fra. one fiscol year to the  en.t before disbursemeot is made and hence is not esactly the same
as actunl onFendtiure during the fiscal year.  However, because o.  some balancing effect of disburnement
made against cash releases during previous ype.s  and because year-end balances of undisbursed funds
do not vary much in siee, cash releases are approximstely equal to sctual expenditure.
/b  Repre-ents empenditures from 1-ca1 resources in pesos and foreign exchange reserves, includes commodity
assi stano
/c Represents expenditures from foreign bnrrowings, project loans, reparationa and graots.
/d  Converted at same exchange rates as are used by Infrastrncture Operations Center; FY1967-70: P4.0 = US0;
FY1971:  P6.0 = USSI; FY1972-73: P 6.7 = USSI: FY1973-74:  P6.8 = US$1; FY1975-76:  f 7.64 = US01.
From FY1977 to FY1982: f7.5 = US01.
/e  1976 figuren cover the period from July 1, 1975 to December 31, 1976.                                                                                                                                                              l
7f  From 1977 to 1982 fiscal yesrs covee the perind fron January to December each year.  The 1978 figures
are provisional.
Source:  Notional Eco.noic and Development Authority (N8DA) ano PlannIng and Project Development Office
(MPWTC); Infrastruc- tre Operation Center, "Implementation  of the Infrantructure Program,"
"Teo-Y.er Infrastructure Prograo - 1976-1985," and NEDA's 1978 Iof..stroctore Program.
January 1979



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Domestic Freight and Passenger Traffic Data
1970-85
1970              1976           1970-76           1980           1976-80           1985           1980-85
Ton-Km            Ton-Km       Average annual    Ton-Km         Average annual    Ton-Km         Average annual
(million)  (       (million) (       increase CX)  (million) (       increase (Z)  (milllon) (X)   increase (%)
Frelght
Road                 3,520      57       4,438    43.6         3.9         7,170   44.0         8.3      11,200      46.5        9.4
Inter-Island         2,510      41       5,433    53.4        13.7         8,740   53.7         8.2      11,900      49.4        6.3         1
Shlipping
Railway                 150      2         286      2.8       11.3           360    2.2         3.9         970       4.0       22.0        X
Aviation                 10      -    ,    13       0.2        4.5            23    0.1        10.0          39       0.1       11.1
Total           6,190    100      10170   100.0          8.4        16,293  100.0         8.2      24,109    100.0         8.2
Pass-Km           Pasa-Km      Average annual    Pass-Km        Average annual    Pass-Km        Average annual
Passenger         (million)  (%)    (million) (Z)   increase (X)  (million) (x)   increaee (%)  (million) (              I) lncrease (Z)
Road                15,650      82       20,562   79.4         4.7        31,440   78.2         7.3     46,000       77.7        7.9
Inter-Island         1,570       8        2,462    9.5         7.8         3,740    9.3         7.2       5,080       8.6        6.3
Shipping
Railway               1,210      6        1,261    4.9         0.7         1,710    4.3         5.2       3,050       5.1       12.3
Aviation                780      4        1,610    6.2        12.8         3,290    8.2        12.7       5,085       8.6        9.1
Total          19,210    100       25 895  100.0         6.5        40,180  100.0         7.6      5          100.0        8.1
Source: 1970 and 1976 - Government and Consultants Estimates.
1980 and 1985 - National Economic Development Authority.
October 1978



- 49 -                              Table 2.1
PHILLIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Public Highway Network 1978
(km)
Total            Paved
Category and type   length  Concrete  Bituminous  %    Gravel  %             Earth  %
National Roads
Expressway             121       121          -   100          -   -          -   -
Other               22,184    3,880       5,138    40   12,584  57         582   3
Subtotal      22,305    4,001       5,138    41   12,584  56          582   3
Secondary Roads
Provincial          28,224       425      3,347    13   18,285  65    6,167  22
City                 3,004       306      1,526    61        968  32       204   7
Municipal            9,526    1,210       1,275    26    4,998  52    2,043  22
Subtotal      40,753    1,940       6,148    20   24,251  60    8,414  20
Barangay Roads/a
Municipal           51,362       474        363      2   24,149  47   26,376  51
City                 5,157        60        423      9    3,300  64    1,374  27
Subtotal      56,489       534        786      2   27,449  49   27,720  49
Total        119,578    6,475    12,071    15   64,284  54   36,716  31
Road Density in 1978
Road km/sq km                    0.4
Road km/1,000 inhabitants        2.7
/a  Some of these roads are little more than trails.
Source:  Ministry of Public Highways.
November 1978



- 50 -                              Table 2.2
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PUBLIC HIGHWAY NETWORK 1975-1978
(kmn)
National  Provincial   City    Municipal    Barangay Roads
Year     Roads       Roads       Roads     Roads       City   Municipal    Total
1978/a   22,305      28,224      3,004     9,526      5,157       51,362   119,578
1977     21,852      29,189      2,826     9,128      5,075       47,811   115,881
1976     21,255      28,872      2,775    11,018    23,432        28,410   115,762
1975     21,260      28,431      2,462     8,257      4,506       27,580    92,496
1969     18,095      23,775      5,408    16,315          -            -    63,593
/a Based on 1978 Road Inventory.
Source: Ministry of Public Highways
November 1978



Table 2.3
-51 -
PHILIPP:INES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MOTOR VEHICLE STAT]:STICS, FY66-77/a
Year        Cars /b    Jeepneys /c    Buses       Trucks      EMV /d      Total
Registrations
1966       165,744       31,969       14,218      98,701      13,433    324,065
1967       209,199       35,339       12,028    105,483       21,608    383,657
1968       235,676       40,418       14,402    114,195       26,727    431,413
1969       261,968       48,874       14,215    123,994       28,072    477,123
1970       268,260       43,262       13,506    152,664       30,530    488,322
1971       276,547       43,739       13,018    140,850       32,184    506,338
1972       301,992       44,940       15,870    152,413       42,593    557,808
1973       318,022       57,729       17,532    175,582       50,328    614,292
1974       371,334       59,268       19,199    204,791       54,569    709,581
1975       388,890       56,901       18,325    207,758       58,917    7:30,791
1976       391,800       59,183       18,721    223,143       59,274    752,121
1977       433,837       69,008       19,485    246,060       66,974    835,364
Average Annual Change (%)
1966-76         9.4          6.5          3.1       10.2        17.5         9.7
1966-70        12.6          7.8            -       11.5        22.8        10.8
1970-72         6.1          2.0          8.4           -       18.1         6.9
1972-74        10.9         14.8         10.0       15.9        13.1        12.8
1974-76         2.7            -            -       19.6         4.3         3.0
1976-77        10.7         16.6          4.1       10.2        12.9        11.1
Changing Composition (%)
1966             51            10            4          31         4         100
1976             51             8            2          31         8         100
1977             52             8            2          30          8        100
Motor Vehicles Assembled in the Philippines, 1971-76
Year                 Passenger cars          Commercial vehicles             Total
1971                     9,447                      11,219                  20,666
1972                    11,994                        9,522                 21,516
1973                    16,737                      15,534                  32,271
1974                    21,844                      22,303                  44,147
1975                    27,497                      23,768                  51,625
1976                    29,434                      26,154                  55,588
1977                    30,126                      29,326                  59,452
/a  Excludes trailers with no power units.
/b  Includes Jeeps (noncommercial).
/c  Jeepneys and Jeeps converted for passenger transport.
/d  EMV - Equivalent (4 wheels) Motor Vehic:Le for Motorcycles (3 motorcycles
= 1 EMV)
Source: Land Transport Commission.
November 1978



- 52 -                            Table 2.4
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MOTOR VEHICLE FUEL CONSUMPTION, FY66-77
Year                        Gasoline               Diesel fuel
------- (Million liters) -------
1966                          1,450 
1967                          1,771                   1,402
1968                          1,877                   1,578
1969                          2,205                   1,629
1970                          2,280                   1,919
1971                          2,481                   1,721
1972                          2,710                   1,902
1973                          2,839                   2,320
1974                          2,570                   2,181
1975                          2,294                   1,994
1976                         2,335                    2,201
1977                          2,313                   2,330
Average Annual Change (%)
1966-73                        10.1                     9.8/a
1973-75                      -11.0                     -7.8'
1975-76                         1.8                     9.4
1976-77                       - 1.0                     5.8
/a FY67-73.
Source: Ministry of Public Highways; Oil Industry Commission.
November 1978



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
EXPENDITURES BY HIGHWAY WORKS AND SOURCE OF FUNDS, FY66-77
(P million)
Item                              1966    1967      1968      1969     1970    1971      1972     1973      1974       1975     1976/f     1977
Administration /a
Highway special funds           24.0    19.1    24.5    29.6    30.9    26.0    26.6            12.5     101.0      119.2         -          -
Other funds                      5.7       ).2     7.8      11.4    24.1      26.5    43.6      93.1      78.4     165.2      104.0     i5u.4
General funds                       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -          -         -    130.5       88.5
Subtotal                   29.7    25.3    32.3    41.0    55.0    52.5    70.2   105.6            179.4      284.4     234.5    238.9
Maintenance /b
Highway special funds           83.7    72.4   126.0   125.5   103.5   121.3   155.6   130.8    209.1               430.2         -          -
Other funds                      0.5      0.6       1.0      0.2      0.5      0.3        -    85.3       50.7       50.0         -          -
General funds                       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -      10.1       53.3    795.9    874.9         L
Subtotal                   84.2    73.0   127.0   125.7   104.0   121.6   155.6   216.1            269.9      533.5    795-9    R74b9
Construction /c
Highway special funds /d        32.7   103.7   104.3    88.7   148.2    89.8   116.2   114.9              66.3       94.5         -          -
General funds                   25.9      7.4    22.7       18.8   149.5   112.8   178.7   321.8    463.5  1,018.5  2,470.6  1,545.0
Bond funds                       7.7    60.8    64.6        70.2    45.8       3.0      1.1      1.2          -         -         -          -
Other funds                      0.7       1.4      1.5      2.9      3.3    10.1       7.9    35.2       16.4        7.5         -          -
Foreign sources /e                  -        -    42.8       3.2    67.6      15.5    50.2    57.6        63.2    219.0    409.1         73.5
Subtotal                   67.0   173.3   235.9   183.8   414.4   231.2   354.1   530.7            609.4  1,339.5  2,879.7  1,618.5
Total                     180.9   271.6   395.2   350.5   573.4   405.3   579.9   852.4  1,058.7  2,157.4  3,910.1  2,732.3
/a  Includes loan amortization for FY66-77.
lb  Includes routine & special maintenance and emergency repairs.
/c  Includes construction of buildings.
Id  Expenditures are for road improvement works only.
/e  Exchange rates used:  FY74:  US$1.00 = P6.80; FY75:  US$1.00 = P7.00; FY76:  US$1.00 = P7.64;
FY77: US$1.00 = P7.50.
If  Expenditures from July 1, 1975 - December 31, 1976.
Source:  Ministry of Public Highways.                                                                                                                    x
November 1978
s-nl



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
REVENUES FROM HIGHWAY USERS, FY66-77
(Pesos million)
Item                               1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975            1976      1977
Fuel oil taxes /a                 123.5   145.1   152.8   181.3   189.0   198.5   207.6   185.8   466.7   804.9   1,171.6  1,512.1
Motor vehicle fees /b              63.5    68.5    81.6    84.9    96.7   101.8   109.9    98.9   145.4   155.7            458.1    577.6
Motor vehicle registration    56.2    55.2    72.2    74.4    85.2    88.5 }                                             308.4    211.8
Licenses and plates               3.7     4.3      4.4      4.5     4.8      5.8 }    No breakdown available              21.9      14.0
Miscellaneous                     3.6     9.0      5.0      6.0     6.7      7.5 ]                                        58.0      62.9
Special revenues                                                                                                          69.8    288.9/e
Total                     187.0   213.6   234.4   266.2   285.7   300.3   317.5   284.7/c 612.1   960.6   1,629.7  2,089.7
Annual increase (%)                 9.6    14.2      9.7    13.6       7.2     5.1      5.7    10.3   114.9    56.9          69.6     28.2
4n
Earmarked for Highway
Special Fund /d                169.2   193.5   213.1   241.0   258.5   271.1   287.3   258.4   585.6   931.8                 -         -
/a  Fuel oil taxes include taxes on gasoline, diesel fuel and lubricants.
/b  Motor vehicle fees include registration fees, drivers' and conductors' licenses, fees on plates and miscel-
laneous, (e.g., fines, penalties, surcharges). Details of breakdown data not available for FY72-75.
/c  Books had been closed earlier and the remaining accruals were transferred to next fiscal year as reported
by Board of Internal Revenue.
/d  Abolished in 1975, revenues now are placed in the general fund.
/e  Emergency Ad Valorem Tax, Legal Research Fund and Special Revenue Tax.
Source: Ministry of Public Highways.
November 1978



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
EXPENDITURES ON HIGHWAYS BY ROAD SYSTEM, FY66-77/a
(P million)
System                            1966   1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973            1974      1975    1976       1977
National highways                112.2  196.2   288.4   241.6   441.5   291.0   432.0   691.9    910.8  1,868.1  3,516.8  2,324.4
Provincial/City roads             34.5   43.7    62.4    61.8    76.8    67.5    91.3    51.1            53.4    145.0    208.8        179.7                  1
Municipal roads                   16.8   20.1    29.4    29.3    34-6    31.7    42.6    28.7            16.2      66.0    184.5    228.2
Loan amortization                 17.4   11.6    15.0    17.8    20.5    15.1    14.0    80.7            78.3      78.3          -         -
Total                        180.9  271.6   395.2   350.5   573.4   405.3   579.9   852.4  1,058.7  2,157.4  3,910.1  2,732.3
/a Expenditures of National Government only.
Source: Ministry of Public Highways.
November 1978
ct



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
HIGHWAY DESIGN STANDARDS
Flat                                     Rolling (Hilly)                                 Mountainous
Terrain:                       Minor                             Express-    Minor                               Express-    Minor                             Express-
Class of road:/a               roads /b 2       3     4      5     way        roads /b   2    3    4        5      way        roads /b 2    3       4      5    way
Parameter
Design speed (km/h)              60      60    80    80   100        120        40-50    50   60   70    90         100        30      40    50    60       70    100
Pavement width (m)              6.0    6.1   6.7   7.0  2x7.3  2x7.3             6.0    6.1  6.7  7.0  2x7.3   2x7.3          5.5    5.5   6.0   6.7  2x7.0  2x7.0
Median width (m)                   -      -      -     -   4.0    12.0             -       -    -    -   4.0       12.0         -       -      -      -    2.0    4.0       L
Shoulder width (m)              1.5    1.5   2.0   2.5   3.0         3.0       1.0-1.5  1.5  2.0  2.0   3.0         3.0       1.0    1.0   1.5   1.5    3.0    3.0
Right-of-Way (m)                 30      30    60    60    60         60          30      30   60   60    60         60        30      40    40    50       60      60
Stopping sight distance (m)    70        70   110   110   180        260          60      60   70   90   150        230        50      50    60    70       90    190
Passing sight distance (m)    350    350   450   450   600/c   800/c    275-300  300  400  400   525/c   700/c                275    275   300   350    450/c  600/c
Maximum superelevation (%)         8      8      8     8      8        8           8       8    8    8      8        8           8      8      8      8       8       8
Minimum horizontal radius (m) 125    125   240   240   400           750        50-90    90  200  200   350        550          25     50    80   125    180    400
Structural Design:  "Standard Specifications for Highway Bridges" adopted by the American Association of State
Highway and Transport Officials (AASHTO).   Loading:  HS 20-44 & HS 15-44
Pavement Design: Based on an equivalent standard 8-ton single axle load.
/a Class I (not shown) is intended to cover rehabilitation of an existing road of any class, such as improvement of pavement, reshaping of shoulders,
repairs to drainage, etc.                                                                                                                                               H
/b  Standards of minor roads may be relaxed where terrain and other physical conditions necessitate lower standards.
/c  Only to be applied if constructed as an undivided highway in the initial stage.                                                                                         X
Source: Ministry of Public Highways
November 1978



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Expenditures on Highway Maintenance by Road System, FY72-82
(P million)
Actual                                              Planned /a
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976/c   1977           1978      1979       1980      1981      1982
I. Routine Maintenance lb
National roads                    94.7    72.1   150.5   263.6   354.1    356.2/d   404.5/d  425.0    447.0    472.0    497.7
Provincial roads                  39.5    34.8    42.4   100.6   182.5        143.4      201.3    211.4    222.0    233.1    255.0
Municipal & City roads            21.4    23.9      16.2    66.0                25.5       35.7      37.5      39.4      41.4      44.3
Barangay roads                       -        -        -          } 158.8     114.4      152.4    160.0    168.0    176.4         186.0
Subtotal                  155.6   130.8   209.1   430.2   695.4    639.5           793.9    863.9    876.4    922.9    983.0
II. Periodic Maintenance
National roads /e                    -        -      7.0    37.3    74.7       40.0       109.7    150.0    200.0    260.0    332.0
Provincial roads                     -        -  I
Municipal & City roads               -        -  }  3.1    16.0    25.8         29.4       27.7      29.1      30.5      32.0      35.0
Barangay roads                       -        -  I
Subtotal                      -        -    10.1    53.3   100.5         69.4      137.4     179.1     230.5    292.0    367.0
Subtotal (I and II)       155.6   130.8   219.2   483.5   795.9    708.9           931.3  1,043.0  1,106.9  1,214.9  1,350.0
III. Emergency Repairs
Calamity fund                        -    85.3    50.7    50.0           -    166.0       153.0    161.8      170.6    179.4      195.0
Total /f                  155.6   216.1   269.9   533.5   795.9    874.9   1,084.3  1,204.8  1,277.5  1,394.3  1,545.0
/a  1979-82 estimates assume that routine maintenance requirements will increase at a growLh rate of 4% to 5% p.a.,
the same as the network.
/b  Financed from the Highway Special Fund until 1975 when the Fund was abolished.
/c  Includes expenditures from July 1, 1975 to December 31, 1976 due to a change in the Fiscal Year.
/d  Amount budgeted.  Actually only P 339.9 million was released in 1977 and P 389.9 million in 1978.
/e  From 1977 to 1982, represents the road restoration program being undertaken (Table 3.2).
/f  Costs shown are actual for 1972 to 1978 and are estimated at 1979 prices for 1979 to 1982.
Source: Ministry of Public Highways.
January 1979



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROGRAM: PHYSICAL TARGETS AND ESTIMATED COSTS
FOR THE NATIONAL ROAD NETWORK, 1977-82
Normal Road Maintenance
Total                                Basic cost
Year   Unpaved roads /a       Bituminous roads       Concrete roads    Length   Estimated costs /b    Total EMK /d   per EMK
-- ((km)              ------------------ - -- ----  (km)  (P million)            (km)          (Pesos)
1977       13,020                 4,950                  4,183          22,153         339.9/c           32,252          11,033
1978       13,221                 4,968                  4,642          22,831         389.9/c          35,668           11,342
1979       13,016                 5,491                  5,236          23,743         425.n             36,630          11,600
1980       12,169                 6,010                  5,981          24,160         447.0             37,410          11,950
1981       11,570                 6,450                  6,680          24,700         472.0             38,190          12,360
1982       10,963                 6,910                  7,480          25,353         497.7             39,126          12,720
/a  Gravel surface.
/b  Costs are actual for 1977-78 and are estimated at 1979 prices for 1979-82.
/c  Actual amount released.  P 356.2 million had been budgeted for 1977 but only P 339.9 million
was actually released. For 1978, P 404.5 million had been budgeted but only P389.9 million
was actually released. Shortfall was therefore only 4 to 5% for these years, not a very significant
amount.
/d Equivalent maintenance kilometer.
Source: Ministry of Public Highways.
January 1979



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Program: Physical Targets and Estimated Costs
for the National Road Network, 1977-82
Road Restoration Program
Drainage and shoulder
Unpaved roads /a                 Unpaved roads /a                          Bituminous roads                     rehabilitation only
(By force account)                 (By contract)                              (By contract)                      (By force account)              Total
Year     Length    Cost /b    Length  Source of financing    Cost           Length  Source of financing        Cost         Length       Cost /b    Length        Cost /c
By Bank    Entirely                         By Bank    Entirely
& Govt.    by Govt.                         & Govt.    by Govt.
(km)   (P million)   (km)   -- (P million) --- (P million)   (km)   --  (P million) ---  (P million)               (km)   (P million)       (km)   (P million)
1977/78   639         35.7        329       41.7        -       41.7/d       293        49.6         -       49.6/d        1,967        22.7        3,228       149.7
1979      167         15.0        662       45.0     45.0       9o.07Wd      170        30.0       5.0       35.0/d          595        10.0        1,594       150.0
1980      222         20.0        884       45.0     75.0      120.0o7       223        30.0      16.0       46.07Te         849        14.0        2,178       200.0
1981      289         26.0      1,156       45.0    112.0      157.0/       291        30.0     30.0        60.0/e        1,020        17.0        2,756       260.0
1982      367         35.0      1,455      45.0    153.0       198.0/e       377        30.0     47.0        77.0/e       1,318         22.0       3,517        332.0
Totals  1,684        131.7      4,486      221.7 /f 385.0      606.7       1,354       169.6 /f  98.0       267.6         5,749         85.7       13,273    1,091.7
Summary
Length                Estimated cost                          Estimated cost
Portion of program partly financed by Bank                (km)         Local  Foreign exchange  Total          Local  Foreign exchange       Total
cost                      cost         cost                            cost
(P million)                    ------ (US$ million)
Under Third Highway Project (1977/78 to 1979)              1,100        107.1        59.2         166.3         14.5          8.0            22.5
Under Fourth Highway Project (1980 to 1982)                1,430        155.4        66.6         222.0         21.0          9.0            30.0
Total                                               2,530        262.5       125.8         388.3         35.5         17.0             52.5
/a  Gravel surface.
/b  To be financed by the Government using its own resources.
/c  Costs shown are actual for 1977/78 and are estimated at 1979 prices for 1979 to 1982.
/d  Partly financed by the Bank under the Third Highway Project.
/e  To be partly financed by the Bank under this project.
If  Total cost of portion of program for which the Bank is providing financial assistance.
Source: Ministry of Public Highways.
January 1979



- 60 -                                Table 3.3
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Program: Workshop Construction and Improvement
Location                               Total cost /a
Region   Shop       Island         City           Status      P (million)       US$
(million)
Headquarters-Central Equipment Depot, Manila   New                 8.25        1.11
IVB   Area 20  Mindoro   Calapan                 New            6.46         0.87
Area 21  M4indoro   Mamburao               New            6.46        0.87
Area 22  Palawan   Puerto Princesa        New             6.88        0.93
V   Area 23  Luzon       Virac                 New            6.74        0.91
Area 24  vuzon      Masbate               New             6.33        0.85
VI   Base      Panay      Iloilo                New            17.60        2.38
Area 29  Panay      San Jose              New             6.19        0.84
Area 30  Panay      Roxas City            New             6.19        0.84
Area 31  Panay      Pototan               New             6.46        0.87
Area 32  Negros    Bacolod                New             6.19        0.84
VII   Base      Cebu       Cebu City             Existing       8.94         1.20
Area 33  Cebu       Lahug                 New             5.78        0.78
Area 34  Cebu       Talisay               New             5.78        0.78
Area 35  Bohol      Tagbilaran            New             6.33        0.85
Area 36  Negros    Dumaguete              New             6.19        0.84
VIII   Base      Leyte      Tacloban              Existing       10.45        1.41
Area 37  Samar      Catarman              New             6.05        0.82
Area 38  Samar      Catbalogan            New             6.05        0.82
Area 39  Samar      Borongan              New             6.33        0.85
Area 40  Leyte      Maasin                New             6.33        0.85
Area 41  Leyte       Ormoc                 New            6.33        0.85
IX   Base      Mindanao  Zamboanga              New           17.88        2.41
Area 42  Mindanao  Zamboanga              New             6.74        0.91
Area 43  Mindanao  Dipolog                New             7.15        0.97
Area 44  Mindanao  Pagadian               New             7.29        0.98
Area 45  Sulu       Jolo                  New             8.25        1.11
X   Base      Mindanao  Cagayan de Oro         Existing      10.45        1.41
Area 46  Mindanao  Oroquieta              New             6.05        0.82
Area 47  Mindanao  Malaybalay             New             6.05        0.82
Area 48  Mindanao  Butuan                 New             6.05        0.82
Area 49  Miridanao  Surigao               New             6.60        0.89
XI   Base      Mindanao  Davao                  Existing       9.49        1.28
Area 50  Mindanao  Mati                   New             6.88        0.93
Area 51  Mindanao  Tagum                  New             6.33        0.85
Area 52  Mindanao  Digos                  New             6.88        0.93
Area 53  Mindanao  Koronadal              New             6.88        0.93
XII   Base      Mindanao  Cotabato               New           18.70        2.53
Area 54  Mindanao  Iligan                 New             6.88        0.93
Area 55  Mindanao  Cotabato City          New             6.33        0.85
Estimated Total Cost                                       309.19       41.73
/a Includes the Cost of land acquisition and installation of machinery and
equipment. Cost of procurement of machinery and equipment is not included
(see Table 3.4). Total cost of land acquisition is estimated as P 17.5 million.
Source: Ministry of Public Highways.
January 1979



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Program:  Procurement of Road Maintenance Equipment. Including Spare Parts
Quantity for                   Quantity for
Description                                 Total        Unit cost   procurement  Total cost /a procurement   Unit cost    Total cost   Quantity for  Total cost
quantity  (CIF, Manila) under Fourth (CIF,Manila)  with local  (CIF,Manila)  (CIF,Manila)  procurement  (CIF,Manila)
required         (US$)       Highway         (US$)          funds               p              p          after 1981/b   (US$)
Project                     (1979-81)
1.  Air compressor, 250 CFM                        20         12,000             0                             20             90,000       1,800,000          0
2.  Air compressor, 125 CFM                        40           6,500            0                             40             50,000       2,000,000          0
3.  Asphalt distributor, 6,000 liters              20         92,000            15         1,380,000            0                                             5             460,000
4.  Asphalt kettle, 800 liters                     30           4,500            0                             30             35,000       1,050,000          0
5.  Front end loader                               20         34,500            20            690,000           0                                             0
6.  Road grader, 120 HP                           100         52,325           100         5,232,500            0                                             0
7.  Water pump, 3" x 3"                           100             600            0                            100              5,000         500,000          0
8.  Paint spray outfit                             30           1,500            0                             30             12,000         360,000          0
9.  Sand blasting machine                          30           1,500            0                             30             12,000         360,000          0
10.  Water tank, trailer, 2,500 liters             100           3,000            0                            100             24,000       2,400,000          0
11.  Road roller, tandem, 8-10 tons                 10         36,800            10            368,000           0                                             0
12.  Pneumatic roller, 6-8 tons                    130         34,500            50         1,725,000            0                                            80           2,760,000
13.  Vibratory plate compactor                      50             800            0                             50              6,000         300,000          0
14.  Pavement breaker and maintenance tools  150                 1,500            0                            150             12,000       1,800,000          0
15.  Chip spreader                                  15           5,000            0                             15             37,000         555,000          0                           1
16.  Lane marker                                    50           4,000            0                             50             30,000       1,500,000          0                          ol
17.  Vibratory roller, hand guided                  60           3,450           60            207,000           0                                             0
18.  Pick-up truck                                 270          11,200            0                            270             84,000      22,680,000          0
19.  Stake truck                                    40          25,760           40         1,030,400            0                                              0
20.  D--p truck (6.5 cu. yd.)                      300          39,790          100         3,979,000            0                                           200           7,958,000
21.  Fuel truck, 6,000 liters                       70          37,375           50         1,868,750            0                                            20              747,500
22.  Water truck, 6,000 liters                      80          37,950           50         1,897,500            0                                             30          1,138,500
23.  Rotary broom                                   10         55,000             0                              0                                             10             550,000
24.  Crane, truck mounted                            5         140,000            0                              0                                              5             700,000
25.  Bulldozer, 140 HP                              15         229,000            0                              0                                             15          3,435,000
26.  Asphalt plant                                   5        290,000             0                              0                                              5           1,450,000
27.  Washing & screening plant                      15         162,800            0                              0                                             15          2,442,000
Subtotal                                                                       18.378,150                                     35.305.000                      21,641,000
Plus 20% spare parts for new equipment                                                 3,723,350                                      7,061,000                       4,328,000
Total                                                                          22.101,500                                      42.366,000                     25,969,000
(US$5.7 million)
Estimated total cost for procurement of new maintenance equipment to be financed under
Fourth Highway Project:                                                                                                  US$22, 101,500
Hand tools:                                                                                                                       287,500
Workshop tools, machinery and equipment (6 base and 23 area shops) /c:                                                          4,887,500
Parts and components for existing maintenance equipment fleet:                                                                  4,530,000
Total /d                             US$31,806,500
/a Does not include costs of transport and delivery of equipment within the Philippines.
/b Not included in this project.
/k Procurement of workshop tools, machinery and equipment f or 2 additional base and 9 other area shops is to be Japanese-financed. Installation of this
machinery and equipment is included in the project (see Table 3.3).
/d All costs are estimated at 1979 prices.
Source:  Ministry of Public Highways.
January 1979



-  62  -                                                                 Table 3.5
PHILIPPINES
FOL'RTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Composition and Cost Estimates
Land
Pesos (million)               US$ (million)          2       Construo-  acqoi-
Local  Forsign   Total      Loosi  Poreig.   Total  Pocrisn   tion cost  nition            Width (ml
Item       Description                    Length  cast   exchangs  cost         cost etchamoS  cost   emchangs    per km    cost   And type of surface
(km)                                                                      (US0 ?I)  (P I)
A.  CONSTRUCTION & IMPROVDliNT OP ROADS
Notioo.l Roads
1. Tabaco-Tiwi (Lteon)                    15.1    5.35      5.33   10.68      0.72       0.72    1.44      50       0.095    0.04   6.1 AC
2. Tabaco-Ligeo (Loeon)                    26.5    7.32      7.33   14.65      0.99      0.99    1.98      50        0.075    0.06   6.1 AC
3. Jaro-Celin.g (Pansy)                    54.7   26.53    32.41   58.94       3.58      4.38    7.96      55        0.146    1.50   7.0 CC - 6.1 AC/6.1 DBST
4.  Sigma-Ronas City (Panay)               27.3   10.06    12.28   22.34       1.36      1.66    3.02      55        0.111    0.01   6.1 AC
5.  Silay-fPbtica (Negroe)                62.7   33.33    40.63   73.96       4.50       5.49    9.99      55        0.159    0.35   7.0 CC - 6.1 AC
6.  Fabrioa-isralaooe (Nenros)             16.0    7.85      9.62   17.47      1.06      1.30    2.36      55        0.148    0.88   6.1 AC
7.  C.amnn--Sn Ramaglo (Cobh)              59.3   24.59    29.97   54.56       3.32      4.05    7.37      55        0.124    0.57   6.1 D0ST
8. Digos-Ge.er-l Sonton (Mindanoe)         83.3   33.08    40.48   73.56       4.47      5.47    9.94      55        0.119    0.50   6.1 AC/6.1 D85T
Subtota1                      344.9  148.11   178.05  326.16    20.00       24.06   44.06      55        0.128    3.91
Fyeder Reads
9.  Old Samgy Road (#2033) (Negroo)         5.6    1.33      1.63    2.96      0.18      0.22    0.40      55        0.071    0.03   6.1 DBST
10. Netional Road Jct.-Bolaoo.
(f2034) (Ngros)                      4.8    0.58      0.74    1.32      0.08       0.10    0.18      55       0.038    0.02   6.0 GR
11. E-alaotn-D.n.o Port (#2038)
(N.gros)                             9.0    1.62      1.92    3.54      0.22       0.26    0.48      55       0.053    0.05   6.1 DBST
12.  Anononi-Lenbantoyae (Cobh)             23.6    4.41      5.48    9.89     0.60       0.74    1.34      55        0.057    0.63   6.0 GR
13. San Viconte-Malalag (#9012)
(Mindanso)                           7.1    1.69      2.15    3.84      0.23       0.29    0.52      55       0.073    0.04   6.1 DBST
14.  San Miguol-MiLoegoo (99014)
(Riodanao)                          12.7    1.79      2.15    3.94      0.24       0.29    0.53      55       0.042    0.07   5.0 GR
Subtotl                       62.8   11.42    14.07   25.49       1.55       1.90    3.435     5        0.055    0.84
S.btioa1 (A)                  407.7   159.5    192.1   351.6       21.5      26.0    47.5      55        0.116     4.8
B. ROAD MIAINTENiANCE & REST0ATION PROGRAIM
Conotroction of vonkahope
(8 bone and 32 area shops) (Tablo 3.3)         225.0      66.6   291.6     30.4        9.0    39.4       22                 17.5
Procorer ent of road oaitenanoo
oqoipoeni inclodlog opare par o
hondtool, uorkohop tool. &
-orkchoyp  acbhiory (Tabls 3.4)                 17.7    184.3   202.0        2.4      24.9    27.3       91
yartr & ro"ponocto for eait-
ing oqoipenot fleet including
equipno.t caintrto-ce tools &
facilitie-                                       3.0     30.3    33.3       0.4        4.1      4.5      91
Road reotoroti.o  or-ks                          155.4      66.6   222.0      21.0       9.0    30.0       30
SObtotal (B)                         401.1    347.8   748.9       54.2       47.0   101.2       46                 17.5
C. noTle QOUIPOEOT
7 PErcaee.t eighbridgno (inclodino
.ivil tooko), 32 portable loadmetero.
spare parts and testing eqoipne.t                1.5       4.4     5.9      0.2        0.6      0.8      75                  0.2
Seils A otorialo testing eqoipment                 0.1       2.9     3.0        -        0.4      0.4      98
Subtotal (C)                            1.6      7.3     8.9       0.2        1.0     1.2       83                  0.2
D. TRAINING
Adv-nosd techniool troiti=g ovrcanas
for MPH and IILGCD permanent staff
(10 mao-yearn)                                   0.7       1.7     2.4       0.1       0.2      0.3      67
Subtotal (D)                           0.7       1.7     2.4       0.1        0.2     0.3       67
E.  CDNSULTING SERVICES
Construction oapervioioo of
roads in "A" above                               8.9      13.3    22.2       1.2        1.8     3.0      60
Derign & oonstooctionnnUpnrvioion
of woriksopt                                    11.1       7.4    18.5       1.5       1.0      2.5      40
T.chnIcal .s.istance to MpH for
operation    improvet nots (420 c/n)             5.2      20.7    25.9       0.7       2.8      3.5      80
Sthhnlcal assiote.c. for proniocia2
roads program (96 c/n)                           1.5       4.4     5.9       0.2       0.6      0.8      80
technIcal edSit-oce to IPWTC for coo-
tioa tio  of  treosport planning
advisory ssrvi... (60 c/c)                       0.7       3.0     3.7       0.1       0.4      0.5      80
Subtotal (E)                          27.4      48.8    76.2       3.7        6.6    10.3       64
Subtotal (A to E)                    590.3    597.7 1,188.0       79.7      80.8   160.5        50                 22.5
F. CONTINGENCIES
Phyoi-al (10%)                                    59.0      59.8   118.8       8.0       8.1    16.1        50
Price
Eqoipoent (8%)                                   1.4      17.8    19.2       0.2       2.4      2.6      92
Civil serks (19?)                              102.6      62.2   164.8      13.9       8.4    22.3       38
Co.noltiog services and training (5%)            1.5       2.2     3.7       0.2       0.3      0.5      60
Sobtote1 (P)                          164.5    142.0   306.5      22.3       19.2    41.5       46
Total (A te F)                        754.8    739.7 1,494.5    102.0       100.0   202.0       50                 22.5
C.  LASS ACOUISITION                                     22.5       -      22.5      3.0         -       3.0       -
Total Project Coot                   777.3    739.7 1,517.0    105.0       100.0   205.0       49
Not:  Price -ootigency repre-eetg empected price i-creases and in booed on syringe                        Legend:    CC - cenent Concrete Pyvecent
iflatloe rots  per anon  for both foreign and i-oal costs of 73 for civil  ormk                              AC - Asphalt Cncrtt  Paeent
and 6% for nqoipmee..  For F .ns.lta.cy ye-vi-e  and tr,sinig, a total of 5% bos 0a0oBS    Double  ittinoo Sufaer    T-t..et
been o_lcod no scoonot for  pnpented prone i- ereanen.  Overall, co-tingeny                                   GR - Crushed Gravl Strfacing
allotmoces. including 100  for physical coetionecies, r-prese-t about 20% of
total project cost.
Jenuary 1979



- 63 -
Table 3.6
PHILIP?PINES
FOURTH HIGHWAIY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Bank fiscal                                                 Cumulative
year and                                                  disbursements
quarter                                                  (US$ million)
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                               -
December 31, 1979                                             0.1
March 31, 1980                                                0.5
June 30, 1980                                                 3.0
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                            7.0
December 31, 1980                                            12.0
March 31, 1981                                               18.5
June 30, 1981                                                28.0
1981/82
September 30, 1981                                           38.0
December 31, 1981                                            49.0
March 31, 1982                                               59.5
June 30, 1982                                                68.0
1982/83
September 30, 1982                                           78.0
December 31, 1982                                            85.0
March 31, 1983                                               91.0
June 30, 1983                                                95.5
1983/84
September 30, 1983                                           98.5
December 31, 1983/a                                         100.0
/a Loan closing date.
Source: Government/mission's estimates.
January 1979



- 64 -
Table 3.7
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Axle Load Control Progra-
Suspect
SAA.T        Heavy        commdity orTotal cost
Sto. Rugto       Location              (1978)    vehicles            activity          Status               P            U8$
1.  Finaced aeder Second Highway Project
Permanent Weigh Stations
1.  III  Pun PhilippiC   Hwy           4,000          20        Logging              Approaches         471,000          63,650
hntupen Cbhasru.                                                           s ..ot yet paved.
City h Sta. Rosa                                                           Scheduled for
3/1/79
2.  III  Manila North Road             9,400          42        Logging, mining,   Operational          437,000          59,050
(n.ath-hoa..  traffic)                               soara-.-  con-    sinc
near Tabang                                           structitn mate-    12/16/78
tials, cement
3.  IVA  Manila North Road             6,800          42        Logging              Operational        285,500          38,580
(sooth-hound traffic)                                                     since
ne  arRlintawak                                                            12/6/78
4.  IVA  Manila Soth Enp- traf,9)                     35        Logging, mining,   Construction         277,000          37,430
(o...th-hbo...d traffic)                              nuacn . co-    coplete hut
at Nitchls Itterchange                                stroction mate-    nor tet opera-
rtials, cement       tional.   Shed-
uSed for 3/1/79
5.  IVA  Sta. Tou-Rot-ngan Rd,    7,900               47        Logging, nining,   Opertional           692,260          93,550
tear Clamh.a                                         sugarcane, ton-slats
structito  mate-    1/15/79
rials, cement
6.  XII  Cotahata-Digan ad,               830         25        Logging              oiperational       235,000          31,760
nertobtuht  City                                                        niece
1/3/79
7.   Xl  Cotabato-Digno  Rd,               980         60        Logging             Approaches         250,000          33,780
na  Signs                                                                  not yet paved.
Scheduled for
3/1/79
8.    X        hutuan-fl.D   Rd,          550         55        Logging              Operational        286,000          38,650
nou  Bt... City                                                         since
11/3/7B
9.    I  Nhagila  id, n                 1,970         55        M1ining              Operational        243,500          32,900
Rogoio city                                                                since
12/1/78
Porahble Loudo-eterr
50 units  Various locations             FPr surveys and                               Surveys and        379,570          51,290
(02 assigned to              spot chocks                                   spat check
regional offics,                                                           .o -going
8 to Hqs)
Sobtotal                                                                              3,556,830         480,640
II. To be Financed inder Fourth Highway Project
Per anent Weigh Stations
Ii.  IVA  Manila Etut Rd (M-aikini  -      Road ns der           Logging              Scheduled for    900,000          121,620
Infatia  Rd) near MaKikina    cons trution                                 1980/81
(wet-houd traffic)
11.   VS  Ililo Eaut Coast Rd          9,000          24        Construction         Scheduled foe    700,000           94,600
Ks 6.5                                               maeia1 980/81
brown sugar,
miolasses
12.   VI  Racolod North Rd              5,800          27        Songrcune,           Scheduld f        650,000          87,840
Ke 11                                                 contruction          1980/81
aterials
13.   VS  Rotn.od Sooth Rd.             4,800          27        Sug-rcane.           Scheduled for    650,000           87,840
Kts 12.5                                              co-t-ucino           1980/81
materials
14.  VII  Cbh  Soth Rd                  7,800          33        Const-rtion          Scheduled far    750,000          101,350
Tu1isay                                               matrils              1980/81
15.    X  Cagayanb-Btoan Rd,            4,800          26        Lggineg,             ScheduLed for    900,000          121,620
nea  Puerto                                           pineapples           1980/81
16.    V  Manila iSuth Scd              2,700          35        Construction ma-   Scheduled for    950,000            128,380
near Ligao                                            terial, refined    i980/81
sugar, soft drinks
Portablh Loudmeters
32 units  Various locations              ari spot checks ad                           ScheduLed for    400,000           54,050
verification                                 1980/81
Subtota1                                                                              5,900,000        797_300
Total Program                                                                         9,457,000      1,278,000
SVmmry
Financed onder Second High-ay Project (5)                                    US$480,640
To be financed under Fo-rth Righway Project (II)                             USS797,300                     nay US$0.8 million
Source   Ministry of Phblic Highways.
January 1979



- 65 -                             Table 3.8
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Advisor                                                         Man-months
A. Ministry of Public Highways
1. Office of the Minister
Organization and Management Expert (Team Leader)                      24
2. Bureau of Construction
Highway Design and Construction Expert                               24
Bridge Construction and Rehabilitation Expert                         24
3. Bureau of Maintenance
Highway Maintenance Expert                                            24
Road Restoration Expert                                               24
4. Bureau of Equipment
Workshop Construction and OperatiLons Expert                          24
Maintenance Equipment Expert                                          24
5. Soils and Materials Quality Control Service
Soils and Materials Testing Expert                                   24
Geologist/Geotechnical Expert                                         12
6. Regional Offices
Highway Design and Construction Experts (4 @ 24)                     96
Highway Maintenance Experts (4 @ 24)                                 96
7. Planning and Project Development Office
Transport Economist/Highway Planning Expert                          24
Subtotal                                           420
B.  Ministry of Local Government and Community Development
1.  Transport Economist/Planning Expert (Team Leader)                    24
2.  Highway Engineer (rural roads)                                        24
3.  Agricultural Economist                                                12
4.  Financial Analyst/Organization and Management Expert                  12
5.  Highway Maintenance Expert                                           24
Subtotal                                            96
C.  Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications
1.  Transport Systems Analyst                                            24
2.  Transport Pricing Expert                                             24
3.  Transport Regulation and Organization Expert                         12
Subtotal                                            60
Total Technical Assistance                         576
Total Cost:
US$1.0 million equivalent local costs + US$3.8 million foreign exchange
= US$4.8 million equivalent
Source: MPH and Mission Estimates, January 1979.



- 66 -
Table 3.9
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Soils and Materials Testing Equipment Including Spare Parts
Total cost CIF Manila
Item/description                                          (US$)
Testing Apparatus and Spare Parts
Central Laboratory                                62,510
Regional laboratories (5 regions)                107,300
Field test apparatus                              38,040
Field exploration equipment                      183,000
Subtotal                             390,850
Quality Control Training Equipment
Audio visual equipment                            16,000
Books and publications                             6,000
Subtotal                              22,000
Total Cost                           412,850
Source: Ministry of Public Highways, November 1978.



- 67 -
Table 4.1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH FIIGHWAY PROJECT
TRAFFIC VOLUMES AND GROWTH RATES ON PROJECT ROADS
(1977 and Projections for 1981-2000)
Average Annual Daily Traffic            Average Estimated
1977    Weighted         Forecast          Traffic Growth in %
Range    Average   1981   1990    2000   1977-81   1981-2000
A.  Major Roads
Luzon
1.  Tabacco-Tiwi       785-995        890    1,130   1,780   3,000    4.9            5.3
2.  Tabaco-Ligao        450-580       470       570     820   1,210    3.9           4.0
Panay
3.  Jaro-Cal.inog      430-4,520  1,210        1,610   2,790   5,440   5.9           6.6
4.  Sigma-Rcxas         810-1,920  1,160       1,540   2,670   5,160   5.8           6.6
Negros
5.  Silay-Fz.brica   1,410-2,610  1,920        2,620   4,720   9,430   6.4           7.0
6. Fabrica-'
Escala,nte       910-1,240  1,200       1,510   2,560   4,580   6.0           6.0
Cebu
7. Carmen-San
Remigio                470    470         590      930   1,540   4.9          5.2
Mindanao
8. Digos-Gen.
Santos            540-1,300    700         970   1,750   3,410   6.7           6.8
B.  Minor Roads
Negros
1.  Old Sagay Road            280                360     590   1,010   5.2           5.6
2. National Road-
Bolanon                  125               160      230      340   5.1         4.1
3.  Escalante-Danao           500                610     860   1,290   4.1           4.2
Cebu
4. Anonang-
Doanbantayan    100-  225    150          190      290      460   4.8         4.8
Mindanao
5. San Vicente-
Malalag                  405                560   1,040   2,090   6.7           7.2
6. National Road-
Malungon                 180                230     350      580    -           5.0
Source: MPH and consultants' estimates.
October 1978



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs and Savings on Project Roads, 1981
(Pesos per km, excluding taxes)
C a r s                        Jeepneys                        B u s e s                          Trucks
Impr.       Exist.  Impr.  Saving           Exist.  Impr.  Saving            Exist.  Impr.  Saving            Exist.  Impr.  Saving
level       road    road   per km   X    road    road   per km   %    road    road   per km   X    road    road   per km   X
Excluding Passengers' Time Savings
A.  Major Roads
Luzoi
1.  Tabaco-Tiwi                6.1 AC         0.40   0.29    0.11   28         0.42   0.28    0.14   33         1.03   0.65    0.38   37         1.24   0.79    0.45   36
2.  Tabaco-Ligao               6.1 DBST        0.54   0.37    0.17   31        0.55   0.35    0.20   36         1.63   0.99    0.64   39         1.96   1.28    0.68   35
Panay
3.  Jaro-Calinog               7.0 CC/
6.1 AC/DBST   0.47   0.33    0.14   30          0.48   0.32    0.16   33         1.27   0.83    0.44   35         1.53   1.01    0.52   34
4.  Sigma-Roxas City           6.1 AC          0.43   0.33    0.10   23        0.46   0.32    0.14   30         1.17   0.86    0.31   26         1.42   1.05    0.37   26
Negros
5.  Silay-Fabrica              6.1 CC/
6.1 AC         0.41   0.35    0.06   15         0.40   0.31    0.09   23         1.03   0.78    0.25   24         1.26   0.95    0.31   25
6.  Fabrica-Escalante          6.1 AC/DBST   0.46   0.32    0.14   30          0.45   0.30    0.15   33         1.18   0.78    0.40   34         1.45   0.93    0.52   36          1
a,
Cebu                                                                                                                                                                               o0
7.  Camen-San Remigio          6.1 DBST       0.51   0.31    0.20   39         0.51   0.31    0.20   39         1.37   0.79    0.58   42         1.68   0.97      0.71   42
Mindanao
8.  Digos-General Santos    6.1 AC/DBST   0.49   0.35    0.14   29             0.48   0.34    0.14   29         1.33   0.84    0.49   37         1.62   1.07    0.55   34
B.  Feeder Roads
Negros
1.  Old Sagay Road             6.1 DBST       0.52   0.29    0.23   44         0.58   0.29    0.29   50         1.48   0.67    0.81   55         1.74   0.81    0.93   53
2.  National Road-Bolanon   5.0 Gravel    0.48   0.33    0.15   31             0.50   0.33    0.17   34         1.27   0.78    0.49   38         1.55   0.97    0.58   38
3.  Escalante-Danao            6.1 DBST       0.42   0.29    0.13   30         0.42   0.29    0.13   31         1.04   0.67    0.37   36         1.27   0.81      0.46   57
Cebu
4.  Anonang-Daarbantayan       6.1 DBST/G    0.50   0.34    0.16   32          0.51   0.33    0.18   36         1.31   0.85    0.46   35         1.60   1.00    0.60   38
Mindanao
5.  San Vicente-Malalag        6.1 DBST       0.47   0.29    0.18   38         0.46   0.29    0.17   37         1.18   0.67    0.51   43         1.46   0.81      0.65   44
6.  National Road-Malungon  5.0 Gravel    0.60   0.34    0.26   43             0.65   0.34    0.31   48         1.67   0.83    0.84   50         1.99   1.00    0.99   50
February 1979



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs and Savings on Project Roads, 1981
(Pesos per km, excluding taxes)
C a r s                        Jeepneys                       B u s e s                          Trucks
Impr.       Exist.  Impr.  Saving           Exist.  impr.  Saving           Exist.  Impr.  Saving            Exist.  Impr.  Saving
level       road    road   per km   %    road    road   per km   %    road    road   per km   %    road    road   per k'm   %
Including Passengers' Time Savings
A. Major Roads
Luzon
1.  Tabaco-Tiwi               6.1 AC          0.59   0.40    0.19   32        0.53   0.34    0.19   36         1.40   0.86     0.54   39       1.24   0.79    0.45   36
2.  Tabaco-Ligao              6.1 DBST        0.79   0.49    0.30   35        0.69   0.42    0.27   39         2.19   1.35    0.84   38        1.96    1.28    0.68   35
Panay
3.  Jaro-Calinog              7.0 CC/
6.1 AC/DBST   0.68   0.45    0.23   34         0.60   0.38    0.22   37         1.68   1.08    0.60   36         1.53    1.01     0.52   34
4.  Sigmna-Roxas City         6.1 KC          0.61   0.45    0.16   26        0.54   0.39    0.15   28         1.56   1.12    0.44   28         1.42   1.05    0.37   26
Negros                                                                                                                                                                          a
5.  Silay-Fabrica             6.1 CC/
6.1 AC         0.56   0.44    0.12   21        0.48   0.37    0.11   23         1.23   1.03    0.20   16         1.26   0.95    0.31   25
6.  Fabrica-Escalante         6.1 AC/DBST   0.64   0.43    0.21   33          0.55   0.36    0.19   35         1.55   1.01      0.54   35       1.45   0.93    0.52   36
Cebu
7.  Carmen-San Remigio        6.1 DBST        0.71   0.42    0.29   41        0.62   0.37    0.25   40         1.77    1.03    0.74   42        1.68   0.97    0.71   42
Mindanao
8.  Digos-General Santos    6.1 AC/DBST   0.68   0.46    0.22   32            0.58   0.40    0.18   31         1.74   1.12    0.62   36         1.62    1.07    0.55   34
B.  Feeder Roads
Negros
1.  Old Sagay Road            6.1 DBST        0.87   0.41    0.46   53        0.78   0.36    0.42   54         2.15   0.89      1.26   59       1.74   0.81     0.93   53
2.  National Road-Bolanon   5.0 Gravel    0.71   0.45    0.26   37            0.63   0.39    0.24   38         1.72   1.00    0.72   42         1.55   0.97    0.58   38
3.  Escalante-Danao           6.1 DBST
Mindanao
3.  San Vicente-MalaLag       6.1 DBST        0.64   0.41    0.23   36        0.56   0.36    0.20   36         1.51   0.89    0.67   41         1.46   0.81      0.65   44
4.  National Road-Malungon  5.0 Gravel    0.95   0.48    0.47   49            0.85   0.42      0.43   51       2.34   1.10      1.24   53       1.99   1.00    0.99   50
February 1979



- 70 -                              Table 4.4
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Returns and Sensitivity Analyses
Economic returns and
sensitiviy analyses (x)        Passenger time
Best    High /a    Low /b    savings excluded
estimate  estimate  estimate    from benefits
A. Major Roads
Luzon
1.  Tabacco-Tiwi                  26         32         21               22
2.  Tabaco-Ligao                  26         33         20               22
Panay
3.  Jaro-Calinog                  24         30         20               21
4.  Sigma-Roxas                   23         29         18               20
Negros
5.  Silay-Fabrica                 32         31         17               22
6.  Fabrica-Escalante             25         31         20               22
Cebu
7.  Carmen-San Remigio            22         28         17               19
Mindanao
8.  Digos-Gen. Santos             25         31         20               23
B. Minor Roads
Negros
1.  Old Sagay Road                19         24         16               15
2.  NR-Bolanon                    16         22         13               15
3.  Escalante-Danao               20         25         15               17
Cebu
4.  Anonang-Doanbantayan          17         23         13               16
Mindanao
5.  San Vicente-Malalag           27         37         20               26
6.  NRoad-Malungon                21         28         15               20
/a  Assumes 15% lower cost and 15% higher benefits than in the best estimate.
/b Assumes 15% higher cost and 15% lower benefits than in the best estimate.
February 1979



- 71 -
Tab> 4.5
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
National Roads by Surface Type and Condition (1977)
Su r f a c e C o n d i t i o n
Bad &
Good            Fair          very bad/b            Total
(km)   (%)      (km)   (%)       (km)   (%)       (km)          )
Surface type
Gravel                  826   3.7    5,472  24.5    6,968  31.2    13,266           59.4
DBST/BST                558   2.5        759   3.4        290   1.3      1,607       7.2
Asphalt concrete        625   2.8    1,094   4.9          692   3.1      2,411      10.8
Cement concrete       4,131  18.5        581   2.6       334   1.5       5,046      22.6
Total               6,140  27.5    7,906  35.4    8,284  37.1    22,330/a  100.0
/a  National roads which are included in the annual maintenance program.
/b  Estimates made on the basis of road inventory data collected for the Third
and Fourth Highway Projects showed that 25% of these roads were bad and 75%,
very bad.
February 1979



- 72 -
Table 4.6
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Pavement Condition Changes without Proper Maintenance
Type                 Good --> Fair          Fair --> Bad          Bad --> Very bad
Gravel                      2                    3                        2
Paved
DBST                      4                    3                        3
AC                        7                    .5                       3
CC                       15                    6                        3



- 73 -
Table 4.7
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIlGHWAY PROJECT
Composite dl-Values per km for Surface and Condition
Surface       Condition    Light vehicles   Heavy vehicles   Composite vehicles
Paved         Good               0.00               0.00                0.00
Fair               0.20               0.30               0.24
Bad                0.40               0.60               0.47
Very bad           0.60               0.90                0.71
Gravel        Good               0.15               0.20                0.17
Fair               0.30               0.50               0.37
Bad                0.60               0.90               0.71
Very bad           0.90               1.30                1.04
February 1979



- 74 -
Table 4.8
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Surface Condition and Life Times of Restoration Works
R e s t o r a t i o n W o r k s
Unpaved &
Ditches and shoulders               bituminous roads
Without           With            Without          With
project          project          project         project
Opening year                Bad             Fair           Very bad          Fair
Year 2                                    Fair            "    "
Year 3                                    Bad                              if " 
Year 4                                                                     Bad
Year 5                                                    "    "         Very bad
The Composite Savings Per Vehicle
(in dl values)
Very bad to fair    Very bad to bad    Bad to Fair
- (dl savings) -----------
Shoulders & ditches                   -                     -             0.34
Gravel                             0.67                  0.33
Bituminous                         0.47                 0.24
February 1979



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Annual and Discounted Benefits and Restoration Costs
(July 1979 Pesos)
B E N E F I T S
I n c 1 u d i n g   t i m e   s a v i n g s                         E x c I u d i n g   t i m e   s a v i n g s
Ditches &             Unpaved           Bituminous                  Ditches &             Unpaved           Bituminous                Economic
shoulders              roads               roads                    shoulders              roads               roads                 restoration
Year   1980  1981  1982  1980  1981  1982  1980  1981  1982  Total  1980  1981  1982  1980  1981  1982  1980  1981  1982  Total                    costs
1980                                                                                                                                                194
1981    26                  76                   19                  121    20                   58                  14                   92        252
1982    27    31            80    100           20    25             283    21    24            61    76             15    19            216        319                1
1983           32    39    86    105   126   21    26    32    467                 25    30    66    80        95   16    19    25    356
1984                  41    45    112   133   11    27    33    402                       33    35    86    101   9        20    26    310
1985                                58   142           15    35    250                                 45    107            12    27    191
1986                                       74                 20      94                                       57                 15      72
Present values               15%                                   1,092                                                                 835         701
at January 1981              25%                                     876                                                                 670         668
50%                                     558                                                                 427         609
IRR                                                                  43%                                                                 25%
B/C Ratio at 15% p.a.                                               1.56                                                                1.19
February 1979
H0



PHILIPPINES: FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HIGHWAYS
ORGANIZATION CHART
Prior f December 31. 1978
Deputy tt,rttr
,  ^" eI^nl*er  ,  r                     l                                               .                                  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h :
stDtselopment    l  0    MitnGement    l  1   1 { 3   -|    Monitoring and 1  -|    Pro ramming loprrrnt Ast tartt
DiO,i-                                                                                       w~~~~        ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ici-iO  Orher Forern
Training Coum_ l              Aa ounftng                        l       |                                                   Pertorrhsttca          | Trabffi Stuctet           | Ptclipp,na-Jucan
|PtOducrio.t Dinelton          O 1  DivisBton eto          Dhirt               1          D                                   Division K40               & E-eu-archf              Highvy PrOjcts
D' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OotOtOffice
DMi-~nin Cpu    l  |  Bustt  H                                                         j   Ocoratiom Mgt   l       ]       PtOpainMif   aniD8
|  Dhdvion  ]  0  D - ton  Division  Project Office
_|   ote Equipm  nt              StudiCs                  ISR 4   8 Project Offin|
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bra ofea                                                                                                                   Buea ot^s 
L S 2                                                        | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Coost. BMcmi.t|                                                Baranoci Rif|
Seenin                           &tooo          C-otostnn Riuhsi
Rqional~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ooso   Ojoisirigon- 
Equipemen, Service                                 Regional Officto. |
It2 B  ShmP BW                                       (d31  
SSA. Shopt w_ 
Socce Mln-;I,t of Poblit Hiotpve,
N.vr,ber 1978
W.lad Ba-  - 19n7
rt



PHILIPPINES: FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HIGHWAYS
ORGANIZATION CHART
(As of January 1979)
A- .1 ki--  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~etootne r-b Su'e
\  penonatlK1im*-mint \ \ IFlnlal\1a &leme   |  l   nrtionl   |  }             -        CnrIPn                                  Maintnan)                 a
_-    .a                      _ .       P_- .                            ,ff p   __-__c
4   Dlvision c sio  -| r  osonne"   D so                                                                                                               Atnijertu Grwrttig noe. 5e.o            i\-D bnet| anancean   lC 
AOritq ou ntrtatc_  Acawnnar &  OprtnJ        Sor at P l     ang |atou                             J & |I E aluat n  AD      BAD      Duliy   onro ,cSitudPanigitvronn
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iie Tininfe ontt IO   ritt sora Mqtac                                                              Prjc Plto nmnys
Dinwn  t Diori  _    pe  Ptloyt" Loca Oltea
Regional~~~~~~~~~~~~ toglnnoriog  Reioa O| loanit
_   1  5 rvi Diwis Csoerau|so    Eninantiog on
|  Bureau of  |                                   |~~~~~~~~Mon    out,ainof  Sylas  Ad no e utson f|                  ueiuo
SOita Ministry of Public flialtshoys~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~,Z ofi
T,w-V~~~ ~ ~                    Equimtn                                               P.f1---               Trfi SIdi-ruto           |Mit/-nt||Braq  d
< X 1 < <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Poame II aesgIfR1 '~
P'~~~|RgontEgnem  ;; fi1I. I.  r                    .    l
JanuaeMsry0fulc)r  f 191                                                                                                                       lttWtt eng-1tBt &   *    tes, 1F-
J nuare 1979                      |      t149l    |                                      -l |   Dgn   { |  MOni  | | Adrnini stt vn |             t B nk-It - 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WendBan - 972
Vrt.
r-T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
FmilbilitV ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     l



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1978                        1979                         1980                         1981                         1982
WORK ITEM                           EE                                                       I     A  i ffi    SO   I0   H            J J  AJ |F|M[  J   F M A A|M| J |J|A| S  ND
SIGNING OF LOAN AGREEMENT
LOAN EFFECTIVITY
CONSTRUCTION AND
IMPROVEMENT OF ROADS!]
Prequalfication & Bidding
Contract Awards (including Presidential Approval)
Construction (incl. Mobilization) (36 mos.)                                                                  _            _  _     _                     _
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROGRAM (1979 - 1982)
Construction of Workshops 127 mos.) iincluding
Pretualification and Bidding)                                                                                           -    -         -
Procurement of Tools and Workshop
Equipment (20 mos.)                                                                                       m  _                                m_
Procurement of Road Maintenance
Equipment. Spares and Hand
Tools (24 mos.)
Procurement of Weigh Bridges and
Materials Testing Equipment (12 mos.)                                                      m              m t               I_
Procurement of Parts and Compon-
ents for E.isting Plant (24 mos.)                                                                 m i  |-
ROAD RESTORATION PROGRAMVI                                                                                      m              m       m     m     l
CONSULTING SERVICES
Construction Supervision (36 mos.)                                                                           m     I  I
Technical Assistance to MPH (24 mos.)                                                                        m                     m           a  m .
Workshop Design and Contruct,on
Supervision (30 mos I                                 I                           I                                                    mama
Technical Assistance for Provincial
Roads Program (24 mos I                                                                    ..
J 8 National Roads and 6 Minor Roads are involved. Actual dates for bidding, contract awards and
construction are not the same for all roads.
2J Road restoration component covers the final three years of the Five Year Program initiated under
the Third Highway Project
January 1979
World Bank -18557



IBRD 12320 R3
- 22                                                  1240                                                    I26                  FFBRUARY 1979
L  ON                             SJ S                                                     PHILIPPINES
Pili <   <                                            FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION
<7   <      )      t          ;                                              PRs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"MARY ROADS
Ligo0                                                EXISTIND SECONDARY ROADS
0                                                                                           *0-en RAILWAYS
" NATOBNALF tOADS CONSTRUCTION AND
MINOR ROADS   IMPROVEMENT
B    20  450 SD!
m,                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KI LOME TERS
W 5 + 9 /S A M A R  u           0 10 2D  3D 4S0O
M     A S  TE                    C I                                         MILES                     12
ISO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
SEE ~       VISA YA NV   SEA              0        CoDI1
PANA                           Ncia       Sdn RNi;l 0  bl        l
10        FIb     11       g        rrm    &3  2034
Canleon6   ;  cdrlosJlc CEB U  dO           jf L E Y T E
?oorevn4                To         m Madu   3lo 
-o/   j/<St6n>27S N                        Ilecon                   PfH t/I LIPPINIE   SEA
M~~~Cv  ~~ I    a tA    Jdbd                                        0
NEGROS                        toRCn
eBOdrtner                            i          (\                   cx,laPdsugSi tbo
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
~~cirdJucdrt$.                             Ilidedry i         B~~~~~~~~~~ U K  DNoN   
_ -    /          /        N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D Cr.,I.VdlV          
12,2  <   5                (            , t                       JV~~~~~~ ~       ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~alnonenncia  7
Iapaz>z4:  B   / Z Z A IVA   a      w      a    ng
<,~~~~~~ ., VS-                                                                                                       LU7 x 
Illm O          t      A                              12iP                                                                                    _MDAVAO
Gb 0 0 0F
124'                                                                          AAnEAK OconMAP 






lI'.                                    lEAP                                      E2-                                      124-                                    1H5-
=-4                            Sv.,                                           PHILIPPINES
><;',t6StvmS/t^4  ]   \  r1FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Other Project Elements
-15-  doA t      ,BBAB,A,H                                                                           EGttf5                                        Othe                 Elements-
WV ABOG.EOLHAOAO                                  IV                                                          ,v                                                                                              V/VA
FIf>M~AFv*~I$EFtSvor  tl  f/,      g                PRESENT PROJECT
G'BS=OM'OE BR=lOR Bo,z.                                             '2    5N-                     *n                            REGIONAL BASE WOREBOP   F OURT HIGWAY PRJECT
I            S              -...g  SI '                  AREA WORK HR2H  IFR
NHEIAASPu.ROJBETN
E                                                  Pto=S/ k 0   i   X  _ __ __- ___- EASBIL/Y TUOIESABTOR  BIDETAIL RBB E RI- SPJLG
I (l                                                                             OBAG         _     __ FARL T tUO I5U
IY   B,,o,,X    <               II                         GOSTHWOROl560 IMPRONEENT| 5EODIHIHOT IIGOWT  RHOEBO  OA  N1
'EABIBIUTISTORAIEBAll,0SO
5nFrj t   |        L63.  '"'                       ------     RRBEETIR  5 IMRHEET BEEROIGOIIGOTPROJECT LOA~N BRAPH
-                                                                 TRIBE IBIAH,<sX  Cabz 'EA   SASWAYPAJS  LOGE 1AK36-HO
&IA             A                                    A     GRf5EG WATS RO ADS
0     RAILWAYS
Sofz  Chinao    SeaT                                                                                                    IROnff   \g  p KBBRAIRLABR(lT                                             I  t|IX   F  6E
H  IRPORTS                    H      AR      BE       GO     HO
Eo,s AT MPG VREGIONAL HEAGOARTERS                     WISER
UZON                                 Ph./ipioe   Sea
M-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b ipp i>                                                                              & at
IR                                                                                                                                                                                         IV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NCRS,,  5
MINDORO            NI StAoya    O@e             < 
;mt   Yt-                               ~ ~ ~~~~~%         SNASibI
A v o  ti                                                                                                                                       f   <       eRkG o 
-IA'                                                                                                         'V                                                  OAG          SAMAR                               la,
<f< N A S  J4E S                                                                    4           H!oro    C#/f                  /     '          D)                     A    5S~~~PAN Y/  ~ooo
<MtA  L A I S I  5   '                                        A                 R                                                         -        G   S.'O AAAB.,SG  "
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
N             0'  I.'
IA                                                                                                                                                                                        $ 0e0     C B  W7 R   I    IE,'  I 22'120  OI EO   D



