Document of              r X                 V
The World Bank              0 -                    I
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2468-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
February 22, 1979
This document hus a resicted distribution and my be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Pesos (P)
US$1.00       - P 7.40
P 1.00        - Us$0.135
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Systez
Metric                         British/US equivalent
1 meter (m)                 =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)     0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)             -  2.205 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)        -  1.1 US short tons (sh tons)
-  0.98 British long tons (lg ton)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT           Annual Average Daily Traffic
BCM            Bureau of Construction and Maintenance
BOE            Bureau of Equipment
IATCTP         Inter-Agency Technical Committee on Transport Planning
MB             Ministry of the Budget
MLGCD          Ministry of Local Government and Community Development
MPH            Ministry of Public Highways
MPWTC          Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Communications
NDP            Net Domestic Product
NEDA           National Economic and Development Authority
NTSS           National Transport System Study
PNR            Philippine National Railways
PPA            Philippine Port Authority
PPDW/MPH       Planning and Project Development Office of the MPH
PPDO/KPWTC     Planning and Project Development Office of the MPWTC
PTS            Philippine Transport Survey
SMQCS          Soils and Materials Quality and Control Service 
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
VPD            Vehicles Per Day
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  -  December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of the Philippines
Amount:          $100 million
Terms:           20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 7% per annum.
Proiect
Description:  The project is designedi to (a) improve high priority major
and connecting feeder roads; (b) upgrade maintenance and
restoration procedures and operations of the Ministry of
Public Highways (MPH); (c) train staff of the Ministries of
Public Highways and Local Government and Community Development
(MLGCD); and (d) strengthen planning, administrative, engineer-
ing and maintenance capabilities of the provincial highway
authorities. Construction and improvement of 345 km of
national roads would result in a reduction in vehicle opera-
ting costs. The six feeder roads totalling 63 km wrould help
develop relatively isolated regions with dense populations
(Negros and Cebu) and with potential for new rural settlements
(Mindanao). The five-year road maintenance program is
expected to yield considerable savings in vehicle operating
costs for the entire network. The main risk in the proposed
project concerns the quality of the implementation performance
of MPH in carrying out the road restoration and maintenance
programs. MPH's performance in this regard has improved
significantly over the last year; the project provides for
organizational changes, technical assistance and training and
agreed action programs which should help to ensure that
performance continues to improve.
Estimated Cost:                          Local         Foreign          Total
------------ $ million ----------
Construction and Improvement
of Roads
National roads                          20.0            24.1           44.1
Feeder roads                             1.6             1.9            3.5
Road Maintenance and Restora-
tion Program
Construction of workshops               30.4             9.0           39.4
Procurement of equipment                 2.4            24.9           27.3
Procurement of parts and components   0.4                4.1            4.5
Road restoration works                  21.0   -         9.0           30.0
Weighbridges                             0.2             0.6            0.8
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Local         Foreign         Total
------------ $ million
Soils and materials testing
equipment                             0.0             0.4             0.4
Training                              0.1             0.2             0.3
Consultancy services                    3.7              6.6           10.3
Total Base Costs                  79.7            80.8          160.5
Physical contingencies                  8.0             8.1           16.1
Price con:ingencies                    14.3            11.1           25.4
Land acquisition                        3.0             0.0            3.,0
Total Project Costs              105.0          100.0          205.0
Financing Plan:                        Bank         Government        Total
---------- $ million…
100.0          105.0          205.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY       1980      1981      1982    1983    1984
Annual         3.0      25.0      40.0    27.5      4.5
Cumulative    3.0       28.0      68.0    95.5   100.0
Rate of Return:   The weighted average economic rate of return for
construction and improvement of all project roads, which
account for 23% of the total project cost, is 25%. The
weighted average economic rate of return for the road
maintenance and road restoration components, which account
for 49% of the total project cost, is 61%. The overall
rate of return for the project is 50%.
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 2258-PH, dated February 20, 1979.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $100 million
to help finance a fourth highway project. The loan would be for a period of
20 years,, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/AuguLst 1977
and its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH
of October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors tnder
SecM-PHL77-2 dated October 27, 1977. A basic economic report, ent:itled The
Philippines: Priorities and Prospects for Development (SecM-76/366), was
previous:Ly distributed to the Executive Directors on May 18, 1976..
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at
an annual rate of about 5-1/2%. However, with more effective economic
management the rate of growth could have been higher. The benefits of growth
were also distributed relatively unevenly, both with respect to regions and
income classes. While overall agricultural growth was reasonably satisfactory,
repeated food deficits were experienced. The growth of productive employment
opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion of the labor force. Low
levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public expenditure for necessary
infrastructure and social services. Poor export performance combined with
heavy import dependence of domestic industry led to chronic weakness in the
balance of payments.
4.        The growth of the Philippine economy accelerated to an average
annual rate of 6.5% in the 1970s. Fluctuations, however, have been signifi-
cant. In the period 1970-72, when the effects of a balance of payments
stabilization program initiated in 1970 were being felt, the economy grew
less rapidly. Economic growth was unusually good in 1973 as sharply higher
prices for traditional export commodities stimulated demand. The export-led
/1 This section of the report is substantially the same as that contained
in the President's Report for the Second Urban Development Project
(SecM/R78-271) which was approved by the Executive Directors on
December 21, 1978.



income boom of 1973 was followed by an investment boom, which, together with
favorable sugar prices, temporarily sheltered the economy from the world
recession, and real GNP growth was maintained at 6% in 1974-75. The first
half of the 1970s also saw favorable structural changes in the economy, the
most important of which were an increase in the level of public investment,
financed in large part by a greater tax effort, an acceleration of export
growth, the achievement of self-sufficiency in foodgrains, a shift of the
domestic terms of trade in favor of agriculture, and the slowing of the
population growth rate.
5.        The collapse of sugar prices in late 1975, following earlier declines
in the prices of other major export commodities, altered the external situation
dramatically. The terms of trade dropped by 23% in 1975 and, as a result,
the current account deficit rose to 6% of GNP. To maintain the momentum of
growth and investment, the Government adopted a policy of increasing capital
inflows in the near term to finance the expanded current account deficits
while accelerating export growth in the longer term. In 1976-78, the economy -
led by non-traditional exports, agriculture and construction - has continued
to grow at 6% per year. Unfortunately, much of the stimulus from an expansion
in export volume was offset by further deterioration in the terms of trade.
Total fixed capital formation increased only marginally due to sluggish
private investment activity and the conservative monetary-fiscal policy
adopted by the Government.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call for
acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The development
strategy focuses on an expansion of more productive employment opportunities
at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities, greater self-
sufficiency in food and energy, a strengthening of the balance of payments,
and increased development in rural areas. In addition, the Plan includes
strategies for development in each of the country's thirteen regions. In
general, the Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by
the Government in recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the
Bank's basic economic report, although investment, manufacturing output and
exports are projected to grow more rapidly than visualized therein. It
should be feasible to accelerate the overall growth rate to 7% as the terms
of trade stabilize, but more rapid expansion of manufacturing is necessary to
do so, and efforts need to focus on improving the efficiency of investment.
Agriculture
7.        During the early 1970s agricultural production grew at an average
rate of 4-1/2% per year. In the grains subsector, the Government's policy
has been to end rice imports through irrigation development and the improvement
of supporting services. During the past three years, the Philippines has been
self-sufficient in foodgrains and actually has exported over 100,000 tons of
rice. The overall performance of the agricultural sector was exceptionally
strong in 1976 as production increased by 8%. In 1977 and 1978, rice and
corn production continued to grow at a satisfactory rate; however, the major
traditional export crops, particularly sugar, experienced a slowing down of
production because of low world prices. Overall, the output of the sector
increased at a rate of 5% in 1977-78.



- 3 -
8.        Despite the recent successes in foodgrain production, which are
partly attributable to good weather, rice and corn yields remain well below
the potentials of modern farming technologies. This is largely due to land
tenure patterns, weak extension services and a still inadequate irrigation
system. The Government, however, gives high priority to agriculture and
rural development. It has undertaken a number of steps to increase the
availability of irrigation and supporting services, and has also expanded
programs to improve living conditions in rural areas, including rural elec-
trification, health and family planning, and rural roads.
9.        For historical reasons, land ownership in the PhilippineIs is
inequitably distributed. The implementation of the land transfer program,
which started in October 1972, was expected to be completed within five years.
But, after an initial rapid start, progress slowed down considerabily due to:
poor land surveys and records causing long delays in title documentation;
prolonged disputes over land valuatioa; inadequate resources within the
Ministry of Agrarian Reform; and opposition by the landlords. Progress has
improved, however, since mid-1977. As of March 1978, while only about 10% of
the tenants under the program had completed all land transfer formialities,
over 60% of them had received Certificates of Land Transfer, signifying the
first step in the transfer process and establishing their claim to the land.
Industry
10.       During the 1960s, Philippine industrialization was promoted by high
tariff protection and subsidized finance, and consequently industrial growth
was primarily in the area of import-substitution with a high capital intensity.
Performance was disappointing with respect to employment, exports, and the
overall rate of growth of output. In the early 1970s the Government floated
the exchange rate, which then depreciated significantly, and started correcting
tariff distortions by simultaneously reducing the number of items subject to
the highest protective rates and also limiting the granting of tariff exemptions.
Further efforts to reduce remaining biases in favor of import-substitution
and capital intensity will still be needed, however, to accelerate the rate
of industrial growth as projected in the Five-Year Development Plan.
11.       The manufacturing industry has grown at a relatively slow average
rate of about 6% in the 1970s. Moreover, due to the slow increase in national
income and demand resulting from the decline in the terms of trade in the
last three years, manufacturing growth has also slowed, and investment has
stagnated. On the other hand, industries producing nontraditional exports
have expanded rapidly from a very low base, as their exports increased more
than fivefold in the five-year period 1973-77, in response to exchange rate
adjustment and special measures designed to alleviate existing restrictions
on imports and thus reduce the bias towards production for the domestic
market. As noted above, further efforts in this direction will be needed if
industrial exports are to continue to grow at a rapid rate. The construction
industry, which expanded rapidly between 1972-1976 as a result of relatively
construction-intensive public investment and large tourism investments in the
Manila area, grew at a rate of only 6% during 1977-78 due to the slower pace
of private and public investment activity.



- 4 -
12.       Recent trends in income distribution are mixed but, on balance,
positive. Due to the improvement in agriculture's terms of trade, the growth
of agricultural production, the decline in urban real wages following the
devaluation in 1970, and the stagnation of industrial employment until 1975,
the ratio of the average rural income to the average urban income rose from
0.48 in 1971 to 0.57 in 1975. Real per capita consumption increased by about
2% annually in 1971-75. Hence, real incomes in rural areas, where most of
the poor live, have probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes
have not improved substantially.  Household budget data, which are probably not
entirely accurate, indicate that the share of family incomes received by the
poorest 40% of families, who are primarily rural, increased from 12% in 1971
to 15% in 1975.  The income share of the top 20% have remained about the
same, while that of the middle income families declined correspondingly.
Although the magnitude of these trend; may be overstated by these data, the
general direction of the trends is conisistent with other information.
13.       The population is estimated at 45.5 million in 1978.  The population
growth rate fell from 3.0% in the intercensal period 1960-70 to 2.8% in the
intercensal period 1970-75. The Philippines has an active family planning
program registering approximately 650,000 new acceptors per year. Although
the number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program faces the
increasingly difficult problem of reaching rural areas, the estimated propor-
tion of married women of reproductive age practicing family planning increased
from 20% in 1974 to 27% in 1977. However, by East Asian standards, this
index should still be considered as relatively low.
Investment and Savings
14.       Due largely to the buoyant export performance in 1973 and the
subsequent increase in incomes, investment boomed in 1974-75. Private
investment rose from 14% of GNP in the early 1970s to 20% in 1975. Public
investment was raised from 2% to 4% of GNP with the growth in revenue from
international trade taxes, improvements in tax administration, and improved
project implementation capacity. Subsequently, public investment has been
raised further to an estimated level of 6.3% of GNP in 1978. The private
investment rate, on the other hand, has fallen somewhat to an estimated 18%
of GNP, and its revival has been an important short-term problem. Furthermore,
the high incremental capital-output ratio, the relatively modest growth of
manufacturing output and employment, and the structural underutilization of
capacity in some industries suggest that the efficiency of investment also
needs to be improved.
15.      Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. In 1977-78, gross domestic savings reached a level of 26%
of GNP and financed about 85% of total investment, with the balance coming
from foreign savings. In order to increase the efficiency of financial
markets in intermediating between savers and investors, the Government has
made significant improvements in financial policy. Organized banking institu-
tions have been strengthened. Interest rates were realigned in 1976 and,
again, in 1977 to encourage a greater flow of financial savings into time and
savings deposits relative to short-term deposit substitutes, and to reduce



- 5 -
the spread between borrowing and lending rates. Further reforms are required
to increase the availability of long-term domestic currency resources and to
alleviate the bias of the present interest rate structure towards investments
with a relatively high capital intensity and a low capital efficiency.
Special credit programs have been adopted to expand lending to the credit-short
agricultural sector and rural areas and to serve the needs of medium- and
small-scale industries. A deterioration of loan recovery rates has been
experienced by all government financial institutions and credit programs. The
Government has already taken a number of steps to improve collections; further
efforts in this direction are necessary to improve financial discipline and
ensure an adequate flow of credit to the productive sectors without burdening
the public finances.
Governmer.t Expenditures and Revenues
16.       Public expenditures and revmnues have historically claiired a much
smaller share of national resources in the Philippines than in many other
developir,g countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure
averaged only 12% of GNP, public investment was strikingly low at about 2%
of GNP, and tax revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were
dominatect by general administration and social services, particularly
education. This situation had resulted from a variety of factors including
difficulties in raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the
public sector. Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to
correct the situation and has raised ,oth the overall level of expenditures
and the shares going to economic services and public investment. By 1978
government expenditures had reached an estimated 16% of GNP, and public
investment, which has risen rapidly in the last three years, equaled about
6% of GNP. This expansion in the public investment program has brought about
badly needed improvement in basic infrastructure particularly in transportation,
power and irrigation, as well as the development of more effective programs
in the fields of urban development, health and family planning and education.
17.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a comprehensive program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues
equitably and efficiently. In the short term, needed revenues have been raised
through revisions in indirect taxes. In the long term, structural changes are
to be made to raise the built-in elasticity of the tax system, to reduce distor-
tions in economic incentives and dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade, and to improve equity by increasing the proportion of
revenues coming from direct taxes. The Government has increased the ratio of
domestic taxes to GNP through new tax measures and vigorous efforts to
improve taxpayer compliance and collection performance, but much of the
success in mobilizing revenue from domestic sources has been offset by a
sharp decline in the yield of export taxes and import duties due to cyclical
fluctuations. Total tax revenues, which had been raised to 13.6% by 1975,
fell to 12.8% in 1977 and increased only slightly, to an estimated 13%, in
1978. Greater resource mobilization by government financial institutions and
government corporations, whose investment programs have grown rapidly, is
also needed.



-6-
External Trade and Capital Flows
18.       To meet the acute balance of payments problem in 1975, which
largely resulted from the decline in terms of trade, the Government drew down
its international reserves, obtained loans under various IMF facilities, and
expanded its borrowing program to finance necessary imports. For the longer
term, the Government adopted a strategy of accelerating export growth both to
hold the current account deficit about constant in absolute terms, while
letting it decline gradually relative to GNP, and to meet the debt service
payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
19.       In spite of a further deterioration in the terms of trade, the
current account deficit has behaved as anticipated over the last three years
- averaging $1.0 billion per year but declining from 6% of GNP in 1976 to an
estimated 4% in 1978. Export volume, although constrained in 1978 by the
depresse,i sugar market, increased substantially over the three-year period
as a whole. Import payments, after growing slowly in 1976 and 1977,
accelerated with the recovery of private investments in 1978. To finance the
current account deficits, net capital inflows were nearly doubled from the
1975 level of $580 million to an average of $1.1 billion per year in 1976-78.
Most of the inflow came from medium- and long-term loans. About two thirds
of this was from public loans, a reflection in part of increased disbursements
from official sources. As a result of increased borrowing, the debt service
ratio has risen from 16% in 1975 to 18% in 1977.
20.       To achieve a 7% growth rate in real GNP, as projected for the
initial years of the Plan period (1978-82), import volume will have to grow
at a similar rate, and a net capital inflow of at least $1 billioa per year
will be required. Assuming continued efforts to promote exports and sound
debt management, the overall level of external debt of the Philippines is
expected to remain within reasonable limits. The ratio of debt service
payments to exports of goods and noniactor services is expected to average
around 20%, of which half would be public debt service, during the Plan
period and to decline thereafter.
21.       In order to ensure that the long-term capital transfer is commensu-
rate with the level of development expenditures required during 1978-82 and
that debt service obligations remain within reasonable limits, the Government
sought commitments of official assistance of $850-900 million in 1979 at the
last meeting of the Consultative Group for the Philippines, held in Paris in
November/December of 1978. This amount is likely to be made available.
However, since many of the projects planned for financing from external
sources have a low foreign exchange component, some local cost financing is
necessary, in appropriate cases, to meet the Philippines' external financing
requirements.



PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
22.       As of December 31, 1978, the Philippines had received 57 Bank loans /2
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $1,829.9 million and
four IDA credits amounting to $60.2 million. At that date, IFC investments
totalled $88.4 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed
and outstanding is about 11% and its share in total debt service is about 5%.
These ratios are expected to be about 12% and 5%, respectively, by the end of
the present decade. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans
and IFC investments as of December 31, 1978, as well as notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
23.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy with particular emphasis oa agriculture and basic infra.structure
which have each accounted for about one third of total Bank Group 'ending.
In agricu:Lture, emphasis has been given to expanding the irrigation system to
increase i-ood production and to credit programs to support food grain produc-
tion and processing and livestock, fisheries and tree farming production.
Support has also been provided for integrated rural development projects in
low income areas. The Bank Group has also provided large amounts of assistance
in developing power and transportation to provide the basis for future growth
of the productive sectors. Substantial improvement in basic infrastructure
has been needed to compensate for many years of past neglect due to low
levels of public expenditure. In the industrial sector, the Bank's; main
thrust has been on strengthening the capacity of public and private development
finance institutions with increasing attention given to meeting the needs of
small and medium industries. In the social sectors, the Bank Group has
provided support for education programs designed to improve the quality of
primary and secondary education and to meet trained manpower requirements in
agriculture and industry. In urban areas, assistance has been provided for
water supply projects and for programs to upgrade slum living conditions and
to develop low-cost sites and services. Support has also been provided to
the Philippines population program through assistance for the construction of
multipurpose rural health units and for training of family planning staff.
24.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the supervision and project comple-
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the President's
Report for the Second Urban Development Project (Sec M/R78-271) which was
approved by the Executive Directors on December 21, 1978.
/2 Does not include the following three loans which were signed on
January 26, 1979 and which are not yet effective:
Loan 1639-PH Magat II Irrigation $21 million
Loan 1646-PH  Land Bank             $16.5 million
Loan 1647-PH  Urban II              $32 million



- 8 -
tion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most projects are likely
to be in line with appraisal estimates. However, the overall rate of disburse-
ment is marginally below what would be expected given the generally good
project implementation, and the Government is currently reviewing disbursement
performance on an agency-by-agency basis to identify possible reasons for
disbursement lags and to find appropriate solutions.
25.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of
production and employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income
disparities, greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, and increased
development in rural areas. The Bank's future lending program has been
designed to assist the Government in achieving these objectives. Agricul-
tural and rural development will account for the largest part of future
lending with continued emphasis on food production and programs to increase
the productivity and incomes of small farmers. However, the program pro-
vides for several needed new initiatives, including support for strength-
ening the national agricultural extension service through the recently
approved loan and a first loan for developing multiple cropping systems in
rainfed areas, where there is substantial rural poverty. Increased assistance
will also be provided for integrated rural development projects which will
support the Government's objectives of redressing regional imbalances in
income. Substantial assistance will also continue to be given to industry
with considerable attention given to expanding the development of labor-inten-
sive, small and medium industries outside of the Metropolitan Manila area.
The share of lending for social sector projects is expected to continue to
increase primarily as a result of greater emphasis on construction of urban
water supply and sewerage systems and further assistance for slum upgrading
and low-cost sites and services projects. The Bank Group will continue to
provide support for improving the quality of education and for expanding the
Government's population program in rural areas. While the Bank Group will
continue to provide support for transportation and power infrastructure
needed to support the Philippine deveLopment effort, the share of Bank
lending for these sectors will decline somewhat in the years ahead primarily
because alternative sources of financing are available to finance a large part
of the power generation program.
26.       As noted in Part I, the Philippines has experienced a serious
deterioration in its international terms of trade in the last several years
which has necessitated substantial foreign borrowing. While the overall
level of debt remains manageable, the Philippines will need to obtain some
foreign assistance on concessional terms in the near term to support its
expanding development program. In view of this consideration, the per
capita income of the country and the generally good management of the economy,
a limited amount of IDA financing has been included in the Bank Group's
overall lending to the Philippines.
27.       This is the sixth loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year. Loans for small-scale industry, population and provincial
cities water supply projects are expected to be ready for presentation in the
next several months.



- 9 -
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
28.       In the last decade, the Philippines made significant advances
in the transport field, far exceeding progress in any previous decade both
in terms of funds expended and results achieved. Annual public transport
expenditures, representing about one third of total public investment outlays,
increased rapidly from P 282 million in 1968 to P 3,100 in 1978, with
highways absorbing about 74% of the transport total. Of the remainder,
airports received about 10%, ports 9%, and railways 7%. These transport
expenditures were necessary to expand and improve the hitherto neglected
transport system to meet the increased demand for movement of goods and
passengers, resulting from higher income, population and industrial and
agricultural production. As a result of the increased investment in highways,
the road network expanded from 63,000 km in 1969 to 119,600 km in 1978, and,
for the first time, provided access to the important population centers in
the interior of the two largest islands, Luzon and Mindanao, which together
comprise about 70% of the country's land area and three-quarters of the
total 45 million population.
29.       The 1978-85 projections for commodity flows and passenger traffic
indicate a larger increase in inter-island movements of freight and passengers
between the food deficit areas of Luzon and the agricultural surplus areas of
Mindanao than for road transport within the major islands. Accordingly, the
Government plans to allocate an increased share of total public transport
expenditures to the expansion of ports and airports in the 1979-82 investment
program: 19% for ports, 14% for airports, 9% for railways, and 58% for highways.
No significant public funds are allocated for shipping investment since it is
largely financed by the private sector. During 1979-82, transport's share
of public investment is expected to decrease from the previous level of 30%
to about 20% of the total public infrastructure program.
30.       Road transport is the dominant mode within the two major islands of
Luzon and Mindanao, accounting for nearly 80% of passenger traffic; but its
share of total freight traffic has decreased from 57% in 1970 to 44% in 1976.
Privately operated inter-island shipping, serving a population scattered over
hundreds of islands, is expected to be the largest transport mode in 1980
accounting for about 54% of freight traffic, and nearly 10% of all passenger
travel. Relatively short inland distances and low traffic volumes have
limited railways to a small fraction of total traffic.
31.       The Bank Group has made two loans for ports:  the First Port Loan
(290-PH) of $8.5 million (1961) financed procurement of dredging equipment,
and the Second Port Loan (939-PH) of $6.1 million (1973) was provided to
assist the expansion of two important ports on Mindanao: Cagayan de Oro in
the north and General Santos in the south. The extension of General Santos is
satisfactorily completed and in operation and the expansion at Cagayan de Oro
is 75% complete. In addition, the Bank's First Shipping Loan (No. 1048-PH)
was provided in 1974 to help modernize the old inter-island fleet, finance
technical assistance to strengthen planning and administrative capabilities
in the maritime industry sector and formulate a ten-year investment program
for inter-island shipping. Until recently, implementation of this project



- 10 -
has been delayed by institutional problems, most of which are now gradually
being resolved.
32.       The highway subsector has received the bulk of the Bank's lending
for transport in the Philippines:  threL        _'- ,Lalling $171 million have
been made for the improvement of important sections of national highways and
connecting feeder roads, and for a country-wide maintenance organization,
including improvement of workshops and procurement of maintenance equipment,
parts and workshop machinery. The three highway projects have also helped to
develop the Philippine contracting industry by providing experience in
fulfilling a steadily increasing stream of contracts. Philippine consulting
firms have also gained valuable experience through their association with
foreign consultants on the design of the project roads. The First Highway
Project is complete and the Second, 98% complete. There have, however,
been some problems in implementation of the Third Highway Project which are
described in paras. 43-45 of this report. The Bank's future lending program
for transport includes a rural road project, a second shipping project, and a
third port project.
Transport Planning and Coordination
33.       In addition to increased transport expenditures and system expansion
in the 1970's, the Government has taken important steps to improve the
organizational structure of the planning and administrative units responsible
for transport. These units have been substantially restructured since the
major Government reorganization initiated in 1972. The resulting reorganization
and creation of various transport agencies have led to a strengthening of their
planning, implementation and operational capabilities, and to better coordination
of planning responsibilities.
34.       Transport planning is now the joint responsibility of the National
Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) and the Ministry of Public Works
Transportation and Communications (MPWTC). As a central planning agency,
NEDA has overall responsibility for public capital investments through its
Infrastructure Program and Project Office, which reviews and approves
investments proposed by each transport operating agency. NEDA is assisted
in this task by the Inter-Agency Technical Committee on Transport Planning
(IATCTP), staffed by representatives from each transport agency, including
the Ministry of Public Highways.
35.       To further strengthen intermodal coordination of transport sector
investments, the Bank provided technical assistance to the Government under
Loan 1282-PH (Manila Urban Development Project) for a National Transport
Systems Study (NTSS) in preparation for a ten-year transport investment
program. Work on this study is still under way.
Highways Subsector
36.       The public highway network (as of 1978) consists of about 119,600
km of roads: 22,300 km of national, 28,200 km of provincial, 12,500 of city
and municipal and 56,600 km of barangay (farm to market) roads. National



- 11 -
roads include about 121 km of toll expressways with grade separated inter-
sections north and south of Manila. Up to 1969, little had been done to
improve the roads, and only about 15% of the national roads were paved. Even
now only 41% of the national highway and 13% of the provincial road systems
are paved (compared with about 95% and 20% respectively in Thailand); the
rest are either gravel or unsurfaced. Moreover, despite a substantial
highway program, many paved and unpaved roads are in poor condition because
of inappropriate initial design and construction, and inadequate maintenance.
Existing roads are also frequently damaged by severe flooding in the rainy
season, and overloading of trucks, particularly in logging and mining areas.
Since 1970, the Government has made a substantial effort to improve and
develop the road system both through an expanded allocation of domestic
budgetary resources and foreign assistance, mainly from Japan, the United
States, IBRD and the Asian Development Bank. During the last six years, more
than 13,000 km of roads have been constructed or improved to meet the rapidly
growing demand for road transport. However, much work needs to be done to
ensure that adequate maintenance is provided for the rapidly growing highway
network.
37.       Between 1966 and 1977, the motor vehicle fleet grew from about
325,000 to about 835,000 vehicles, an increase of about 10% per annum. There
are about 200,000 motorcycles and three-wheeled vehicles. Composition of the
fleet in 1977 was 52% passenger cars and jeeps, 30% trucks, 8% jeepneys, 2%
buses and 8% other vehicles. About 50% of the total vehicle fleet is regis-
tered in Central and Southern Luzon, and for the entire country, there is
about one vehicle per 54 inhabitants. Comparable figures in Korea and
Thailand are 70 and 136.
38.       Until recently, data on highway traffic growth were not collected
and analyzed on a regular basis. However, judging from increases in the
motor vehicle fleet and the volume of gasoline consumed by road transport,
traffic growth between 1966 and 1977 was substantial. Fuel consumption
during this period is estimated to have increased by 10% per annum. During
1973-75, traffic growth was slowed by an increase in oil prices. Beginning in
1976, however, traffic has begun to increase more rapidly. During negotiations,
it was agreed that the Government would continue to conduct the recently
implemented traffic counting and data analysis program on an annual basis
(Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
39.       Under the FY79-82 investment program, the Government plans to spend
a total of about P 8,400 million ($1,135 million) for highways. This repre-
sents an increase of about 8% over the previous four-year period (FY75-78).
During the period, 1966-77, construction averaged 60-65% of total highway
expenditures, maintenance about 25%, with the remainder being administrative
expenditures. Almost 80% of highway revenues are obtained from fuel oil
taxes, with the remainder coming from motor vehicle fees, licenses and other
items, including tolls levied on the two expressways north and south of
Manila. During 1966-77, total revenues covered only about half of highway
expenditures. This is primarily due to the fact that road user charges,
despite recent increases, are still comparatively low. These should be
revised periodically to cover a larger proportion of highway expenditures.
During negotiations, it was agreed that the Government would review the



- 12 -
sources of highway revenues by January 31, 1980 with a view towards determin-
ing the appropriate levels of charges, and inform the Bank of its findings
and recommendations (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
40.       The objectives of the project are to improve high priority major
and connecting feeder roads through reconstruction, restoration, and improved
maintenance; to upgrade procedures and operations of the Ministry of Public
Highways (MPH) with particular emphasis on road maintenance operations; and
to strengthen planning, administrative, engineering and maintenance capabili-
ties of provincial highway authorities. The road construction, maintenance
and restoration components were prepared by the MPH with the help of consul-
tants, financed under the Second Highway Project. The project was appraised
in October/ November 1977 based on substantially completed detailed engineering
and economic analysis. However, in view of the very slow progress on the
implementation of the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH), further processing
of this project was held in abeyance in order to give MPH more time to improve
progress in maintenance and restoration work under the Third Highway Project.
41.       Over the past year, the Bank's supervision of road maintenance and
restoration work of MPH under the Third Highway Project has been intensified.
MPH has been assisted in its efforts to more clearly define the scope of work
and spell out improved methods of operation. Moreover, a mutually agreed
action program to implement the maintenance and restoration work was estab-
lished setting out detailed physical targets and scheduled dates for comple-
tion. Simultaneously, MPH has made considerable progress toward carrying out
the maintenance program under the Third Highway Project. In view of this
progress, post appraisal of the proposed project was completed in October/
November 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington in January 1979 with a
government team led by His Excellency Eduardo Z. Romualdez, Philippine
Ambassador to the United States. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2258-PH),
dated February 20, 1979, is being circulated separately. Supplementary
project data are contained in Annex III of this report.
Description of the Project
42.       The project would provide for:
(a)  the construction and improvement of 8 national road sections
totalling 345 km and 6 feeder road sections totalling 63 km on
the islands of Luzon, Panay, Negros, Cebu and Mindanao;
(b)  implementation of the second phase (1980-1982) of a Five-Year Road
Restoration Program comprising restoration of about 13,200 km of
deteriorated sections of the national road network to a maintainable
condition. The first phase (1978-79) of the program was included
in the Third Highway Project and covered about 4,800 km of this total;



- 13 -
(c) implementation of the second phase (1980-1982) of a Five-Year Main-
tenance Program which includes: (i) the construction or enlargement
of 13 base and 55 area workshops in various parts of the country;
(ii) procurement of road maintenance equipment including spare
parts, hand tools, workshop tools and machinery; and (iii) procure-
ment of parts and components for existing equipment. The first
phase (1978-79) of the program was included in the Third Highway
Project, and covered 5 base and 23 area workshops on Luzon Island.
The second phase will include the Visayan islands and Mindanao as
well and will provide the balance of 8 base and 32 area workshops;
(d) continuation of the axle load control program begun under the
Second Highway Project (Loan 950-PH) with the procurement of addi-
tional weighbridges;
(e) procurement of soils and materials testing equipment;
(f) technical assistance to: (i) MPH to help improve its organization,
administration and operations and to help implement an expanded
road restoration program; (ii) Ministry of Local Goverment and
Community Development (MLGCD) to initiate a program for improved
administration, planning, design, construction supervision and
maintenance of provincial roads; and (iii) Ministry of Public
Works, Transportation and Communications (MPWTC) for the extension
of present transport planning advisory services;
(g) consulting services for construction supervision of project roads,
and for detailed engineering and construction supervision of
workshops; and
(h) advanced technical training for MPH and MLGCD staff.
Institutional Objectives
(a) Technical Assistance to MPH.
43.       The greatest weakness in the Philippines highway sector has been
inadequate road maintenance. Since its involvement in the highway sector in
1970, the Bank has observed a serious lack of attention to road mainte-
nance in the field. The reasons were many: there was no proper organiza-
tional set-up or staff capable of carrying out the required tasks; funds
allocated for maintenance were either inadequate or diverted to road
construction or other activities; and maintenance operations and procedures
were ill-defined.  Essential items of equipment were unavailable when and
where needed, hand tools were in short supply, workshop facilities to
service and repair equipment were grossly inadequate, and many depots were
cluttered with broken-down equipment in scrap condition. Moreover, years of
neglected road maintenance have resulted in the deterioration of a large part
of the network to a point where it could not be maintained by normal methods;
restoration works were needed to put the roads in a maintainable condition.



- 14 -
44.       In an attempt to redress this situation, a maintenance study was
initiated in 1972 under the First Highway Project and completed in 1975
under the Second Highway Project by the consultants, Kampsax/Berger
(Denmark/USA). The study recommended a reorganization of the then Bureau of
Public Highways and a Five-Year Maintenance Program, which included: target
annual budgetary requirements for routine and periodic maintenance; substan-
tial road restoration; procurement and management of maintenance equipment
together with required parts to replace or restore MPH equipment; and a high-
way maintenance manual describing operations and procedures. In accordance
with the study recommendations, the MPH was upgraded to departmental status
from a bureau in the MPWTC, and set up a satisfactory organization with
field offices for maintaining national roads. Moreover, the MPH has taken
steps to improve its budgetary procedures for routine maintenance by adopting
a formula which expresses in Equivalent Maintenance Kilometers (EMK), the
actual road lengths as adjusted for surface type, width, traffic levels and
length and type of bridges. These new procedures helped to identify annual
funding requirements for routine and periodic maintenance on a systematic
basis.
45.       In order to reinforce the positive steps taken by MPH and to help
it implement the first phase of the Five-Year Maintenance Program, which
includes a road restoration program, the Third Highway Project provided five
experts for two years and four short-term experts to advise: the Bureau of
Construction and Maintenance (BCM) of MPH on the managerial aspects of
maintenance; the Regional offices on the organization of maintenance crews in
the field; Regional offices and BCM for programming and execution of road
restoration work; and the Bureau of Equipment (BOE) of the MPH on workshop
management, equipment procurement and spare parts control. The technical
assistance program under the Third Highway Project was well conceived,
necessary and useful despite the moderate success it has achieved thus far.
A major factor in the slow progress has been the less-than-satisfactory
performance of MPH consultants and the Government has decided that it will
not renew the contract of these consultants which expires later this year.
The proposed project would provide funds for 96 man-months of advisory
services to continue the technical assistance work being undertaken under the
Third Highway Project for road construction, maintenance and restoration. In
addition, two experts would be provided for a period of two years each (48
man-months) to continue to advise the Director of the Bureau of Equipment in
organizing a network of workshops and in improving equipment procedures, and
the services of the soils expert would be extended for an additional two
years to assist the Soils and Materials Quality and Control Service (SMQCS).
The project would also include 12 man-months of advisory services by a
geotechnical and geologic expert to assist SMQCS in estabWishing a material
sources inventory and 60 man-months of advisory services to assist MPWTC in
completing the ongoing national transport system study.  The Government
has agreed to implement its Five-Year Road Maintenance and Restoration
Programs in accordance with an action plan which provides for physical
targets, implementation schedule and procedures acceptable to the Bank
(Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
46.       The objectives of the proposed project are to continue to increase
efficiency in MPH's maintenance management and operations at the center and
in the field and upgrade technical and managerial capabilities of the MPH's
central and field offices. The proposed project would give particular
attention to assisting the MPH in implementing its decentralization policy by
placing added responsibility for design and construction supervision on the
Regional offices, instead of the central offices carrying out most of these
functions, as is the present practice. In order to implement this policy,
MPH has agreed to institute some organizational changes in accordance with
the recommendations contained in the MPH organization and management study,
completed by consultants in September 1978. The project includes the services
of an organizational and management expert for a period of two years to
assist in this effort. Some of the important improvements will include:
delegation of responsibilities by the Minister to Deputy and Assistant
Ministers; division of BCM into the Bureau of Construction and Bureau of
Maintenance to give due attention to maintenance work with appropriate
personnel changes to strengthen these two important bureaus; and transfer of
the design and construction supervisory functions of the central offices to
the Regional offices. During negotiations, the timing of the implementation
of the MPH reorganization and decentralized operations was agreed with
Government representatives.  In order to assist the MPH in implementing this
policy, the project also includes 192 man-months of technical assistance to
the four regions in which road improvements are planned under this project,
two experts each for a period of two years. In this way, the road improve-
ments included in this project can be used as a basis to upgrade the capa-
bility of the Regional offices in contract administration, construction
supervision, monitoring of consultants' services and road maintenance.
Another 24 man-months of technical assistance has also been included in the
project in order to continue the assistance presently being provided to the
Planning and Project Development Office (PPDO) of MPH, under the Third
Highway Project, in carrying out road feasibility studies, axle load control,
and the preparation of a highway investment program.
(b) Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Local Government and
Community Development (MLGCD).
47.       The project will also include 96 man-months of consulting services
to provide technical assistance to MLGCD and selected provincial highway
authorities in preparation for a future rural road project. In cooperation
with USAID, which has initiated the Provincial Development Assistance Program
(PDAP), experts will assist in preparing a provincial and rural road develop-
ment program and an action program for improved planning procedures and adequate
maintenance of rural roads by the provincial governments. The study would lead
to proposals for the improvement of the institutions dealing with the provincial
and other local roads, including barangay roads, in planning, executing and
maintaining provincial and rural roads; a phased ten-year program for improving
rural roads with particular emphasis on labor based methods of construction;
a rural road maintenance program which would identify personnel, equipment,
and other resources required, with cost estimates, and recommendations on
appropriate maintenance methods; and methods of financing both construction
and maintenance programs for rural roads.



- 16 -
48.       The proposed study to be undertaken at the provincial level will
support the Government's decentralization policy of strengthening local
capabilities to plan, select, design, and implement projects on the basis of
local leaders' and technicians' intimate knowledge of their region's economy
and needs. Expanded local government responsibility for the construction and
maintenance of rural roads is a positive step towards increasing local partici-
pation in rural development programs. The long-term objective of the Government
is to consolidate the various local road improvement programs operated by the
national government agencies and incorporate them into local programs adminis-
tered by the provincial governments. In order to achieve this objective, it
will be necessary for the central government to make an increased annual allo-
cation of resources to the provincial governments to provide them with a regular
flow of funds for improving and maintaining low-cost, low-standard roads.
(c) Training
49.       While the level of technical competence of MPH and MLGCD personnel
is satisfactory for ordinary operations, it is also necessary that the central
organizations responsible for a large highway network have staff competent
to handle the especially difficult or complex problems that occur. To help
provide this competence, the project includes advanced technical training
overseas for selected permanent staff of the central headquarters. During
negotiations, detailed arrangements for implementation of this program,
including technical disciplines selected and required regulations, were
agreed with the Government. A total of eight staff, six from MPH and two
fro,i MLGCD, would be trained for one year each. In addition, eight other
staff would be sent on overseas study tours (six from MPH and two from MLGCD)
lasting about three months each.
Project Cost and Financing
50.       The estimated total cost of the project, including contingencies,
is about $205 million equivalent. This includes physical contingencies of
10% on all items. Price contingencies are based on price escalation for
civil works of 7% per annum; 6% per annum for equipment and machinery; and
for consulting services and training a total of 5% has been allowed to ac-
count for expected price increases. Overall, physical and price contingen-
cies combined represent 20% of the total project cost. The proposed Bank
loan of $100 million would finance the estimated foreign exchange component
of the project.
Project Execution
51.       The MPH would be responsible for carrying out the project,
except for the study of rural roads and transport planning for which the
MLGCD and MPWTC would be responsible, respectively. The MPH will be assisted
by consultants in supervising the construction and improvement work. The MLGCD
will also be assisted by consultants in carrying out the study of rural road
development and maintenance and in preparation of a future rural road project.
The estimated cost per man-month of expatriate consultants' services (excluding



- 17 -
travel and local subsistence allowance) is about $6,500. Including all expenses,
the estimated total cost per man-month is $8,300 for internationally recruited
consultants.
52.       Design and construction supervision of workshops would be undertaken
by local consultants, as was done under the Third Highway Project. Design
work will consist of reviewing MPH plans, revising as necessary, and prepar-
ing detailed drawings and bid documents. The consultants would also review
prequalification applications and evaluate tenders received, subject to final
examination and approval by MPH. The consultants would provide an adequate,
full-time supervision staff for each workshop site and a coordinating and
control group at their main office. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Government that the qualifications and terms of reference
of the consultants and technical assistance experts would be satisfactory to
the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
53.       Civil works contracts for construction and improvement of national
roads, amounting to about $44 million equivalent, would be awarded to prequa-
lified bidders on the basis of international competitive bidding, in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines. Contracts for the construction and improvement
of feeder roads amounting to $3.5 million equivalent; contracts for the road
restoration works totalling about $30 million equivalent; and contracts for
construction and installation of equipment for maintenance depots and workshops,
totalling about $40 million equivalent, would be awarded to prequalified
contractors following bids advertised locally in accordance with the Borrower's
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. These procedures are justified
because of the small and scattered nature of these works. Foreign contractors
operating in the country would be permitted to participate in all local
bidding. Weighbridges, workshop equipment, soils and materials testing
equipment, tools, road maintenance equipment, parts and components, totalling
about $33 million equivalent, would be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A preference
limited to 15% of c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the customs duty,
whichever is the lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the
evaluation of bids. Procurement of off-the-shelf items each costing less
than $15,000 equivalent and procurement of hand tools for road maintenance
would be in accordance with normal Government procurement procedures and
conditions which are acceptable to the Bank; the total amount of such pur-
chases would not exceed $500,000 equivalent.
54.       Project execution would take place over a 3-1/2 year period.
During negotiations, the Government representatives confirmed the proposed
implementation schedule and agreed: (a) to submit regular quarterly progress
reports to the Bank; (b) monitor overall implementation of the project; and
(c) prepare a completion report witin six months of the Closing Date (Sec-
tions 3.01 and 3.04(b) and (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
Disbursement
55.       The loan would be disbursed over 4-1/2 years on the basis of:
(a) 55% of the total cost of construction and improvement; (b) 30% of the
total cost of road restoration works carried out through contracts; (c) 22%
of the total cost of construction of and installation of equipment at the
central equipment depot, regional base workshops and area workshops;
(d) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of directly imported road maintenance equipment;
or 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured equipment, or 65% of
the total cost of locally purchased equipment; and (e) 100% of the cost of
consulting services.
Benefits and Economic Return
56.       The major benefits of the project will result from the provision
of more economical transportation in areas where an existing or potential
transport demand has been identified. Project roads will serve areas which
are predominantly agricultural, thus providing the local population with
opportunities to market their products, to improve the quality and quantity
of their yields through prompt, low-cost delivery of agricultural inputs, and
intensify land use. The areas served by project roads generally have per
capita incomes below the absolute poverty threshold for the Philippines.
57.       The national road network in the project areas, although generally
adequate in coverage, is badly deteriorated. By addressing the need for
maintenance and improvement of these roads, the proposed project supports the
Government strategy of reconstructing deteriorated roads, as opposed to
building new, high-standard highways.
58.       The eight national road sections proposed for improvement are scat-
tered among the southern islands of the archipelago: two (42 km) are located
in Southern Luzon, two (82 km) on Panay, two (79 km) on Negros, one on Cebu
(59 km) and one (83 km) on Mindanao.  Three feeder roads (19 km) are located on
Negros, one (24) in Cebu and another two (20 km) on Mindanao. The project
roads in Luzon would improve general transport and communications in a
heavily populated, rice growing area and provide economical transport to and
from a major market town and a large geothermal plant which is under construc-
tion. The area is also well known for its Mayon Volcano and hot springs
which have been attracting foreign and local tourists. The roads on Panay
and Negros would reduce the transport cost of sugarcane, corn and rice, and
improve access and transport facilities in these predominantly rural areas.
The roads in Mindanao will serve a rapidly growing population in a well-
endowed agricultural area.
59.       In mid-1977, the annual average daily traffic (AADT) on the major
roads was: 1,200-1,900 in Negros, 1,160-1,200 in Panay, 470-890 in Luzon and
700 in Mindanao. Traffic on the minor roads ranged from 150 AADT in Negros
to 400 AADT in Mindanao. Annual growth rates anticipated between 1981 and



- 19 -
2,000 vary among roads: from about 7% in Panay, Negros, and Mindanao to
about 5% in Luzon. Similarly, high growth rates are anticipated on the
minor roads in Negros and Mindanao.
60.       The economic rates of return (ERR) for the national project roads,
calculated over an assumed 20 year service life, range from 24% to 32%.
The weighted average ERR for all national project roads is 25%. These rates
of return exclude investment in road maintenance equipment, workshops and
related equipment and machinery, and technical assistance. Sensitivity
analysis indicates that even under pessimistic assumptions the weighted
economic rate of return for national roads would not be less than 17%. For
feeder roads, costs and benefits were calculated over an assumed service life
of 10 years for the gravel roads and 20 years for the double bituminous
surfacing. On this basis, returns range from 16-27%, with a weighted average
of 23%.
61.       Savings resulting from the maintenance and restoration parts
of the project were estimated for categories of roads at certain levels of
traffic. Based on most probable estimates of maintenance costs, including a
sizeable increase in recurrent costs and benefits from vehicle operating cost
savings on gravel and paved roads, the maintenance program, which includes
the road restoration program, would yield an ERR of 61%. Sensitivity tests
under the most pessimistic assumptions would reduce the ERR to 38%. The
overall rate of return for the project is 50%.
62.       The high rate of return of the maintenance program indicates that
road maintenance, at a low cost per km, is a highly rewarding investment
deserving the highest priority in the road development program. Furthermore,
without a maintenance program, considerable resources would be required in a
few years to rehabilitate the network. The saving of these resources was not
taken into account in calculating the benefits of the proposed program, but
makes the maintenance program even more attractive.
63.       The risks, in terms of potential economic benefits, are normally in
the estimates of traffic growth rates and savings in vehicle operating costs
and they have been accounted for. The main risk in the proposed project
concerns the quality of implementation performance of MPH in carrying out the
maintenance and road restoration programs. The project provides for organi-
zational changes, technical assistance and agreed action programs which
should help to ensure that performance continues to improve.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the loan are
referred to in Section III of Annex III.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
February 22, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 21-                                                 ANNEX I
Patr Mof 3 pages
TABLE 3I
PHILIPPINIES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHGGT
EFrEIIICE CROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
PHILIPPINES                                          is
LAND AEA (TNOUS D SQ. e.)                                                  MOST RECENT ESTIMAIJ)
TOTAL           300.0                                                SAtE        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
ACRICULTURAL     B5.6                               MOST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME      INCOME
1960 lb   1970 Lb ESTIMATE lb      REGION /c  CROUY jd   GROUP 1L
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                140.0      230.0    430.0           616.0      432.3       867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTICN PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    147.0      301.0    326.0           522.0      251.7       578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATICN, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                      27.4        36.9     44.5
URBAN POPULATIGH (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 25.3      27.6      29.8           30.1       24.2        46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
?ER SQ. EM.                     91.0       123.0    148.0            156.8      42.7        50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    360.0     *72.0    520.0           794.8       95.0        93.3
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCGNT)
0-14 YRS.                       45.7        45.6      42.9           40.8       44.9        42.9
15-64 YRS.                       51.6        51.6      54.2           55.4       52.8        53.5
65 ns. AND AROVE                  2.7         2.8       2.9            3.2        3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWtH RATE (PtRCENT)
TOTAL                             3.0        3.0       2.8            2.3        2.7         2.5
URUIAN                           4.0         4.0       3.9            5.1        8.8         4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    45.1       44.2      43.8           34.6       42.2        37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    17.9       13.2      10.5            8.7       12.4        10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.5 f      3.3       3.1            2.6        3.2         2.5
FAMlLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..      191.7    750.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..        2.0      25.0            22.1      14.2        20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)           99.1       100.0    110.8            106.8     104.3       i07.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIReMENTS)                  83.0       86.0      87.0           108.7      99.5       105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        44.0        45.0      50.0           57.7       56.8        63.0
OF WHICR ANIMAL AND PULSE      19.0 j,    22.0      19.2            17.0      17.5        21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    9.0         6.6       7.5            4.0        7.5         8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TeARS)   49.4       55.6      58.5           59.0       53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (FER
THOUSAND)                         84.6        81.0      72.0           44.0       82.5        53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        36.0      50.0            21.9      31.1        56.8
URBAN                             ..        67.0      82.0           53.3       68.5        79.0
RURAL                             ..        20.0      31.0            9.8       18.2        31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       57.0      56.0            28.6      37.5        30.9
URBAN                             ..        90.0      76.0            66.6      69.5        45.4
RURAL                             ..        40.0      44.0            14.8      25.4        16.1
POPULATION PER ?HYSICIAN            ..          ..   3130.0          4103.1    9359.2       2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       ..      364O0.   2180.0           1520.2    2762.5      1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1180.0      850.0    640.0           657.1      786.5       493.9
UR8AN                              ..         ..        ..           14S.5     278.4       229.6
RUJRAL                            ..          ..        ..          1011.6    1358.4      2947.9
ADKISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..        ..            19.0      19.2        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.8        5.9        ..             5.2        ..         5.2
URBAN                              ..        6.2        ..             5.2        ..         5.0
RURAL                             ..         5.8        ..             5.4                   5.4
AVERAGE NUMEE OF PERSONS PER ROOK
TOTAL                              ..        1.3        ..              ..        ..         2.0
URBAN                              ..        2.1        ..              ..       2.3         1.5
RURAL                             ..         2.4        ..              ..        ..         2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTIICITY (PERCENT
OP DWEI.LINCS)
TOTAL                            17.0       23.0      31.0            39.1      28.3        64.1
URBAN                              ..       *0.4        ..              ..        ..        67.8
RURAL                              ..        7.0      10.0                      t103        34.1



- 22 -
ANNEX I
TARLe' 3A
P%iLIPrNEi, - SOCIAL IIDICATOiRS DATA SHEET
xznmtCZ GCROUPS (ADJTLITItD AVERACES
M- NOST ItECET ESTT9AIFAIF
SAIU        SA1ME    dIiT  rCGHER
itS7T RECENT    CE0GRAPdIC    INIOHE       IMCOo.
1fO A      1910 Lb PSIKATE J1       RilOIa /c   GROUiP /d    cVftuP /
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLKFNT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                93.0        114.0     105.0            95.6        75.8        99.8
FEMALE               93.0        113.0     103.0            93.7        67.9        93.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 26.0         50.0      56.0            43.3        17.7        33.8
FEMALE               25.0        50.0       57.0            38.6        12.9        29.8
VOCATIONAL (PFRcEFT OF SECONDARY) 14.0           ..        ..             11.3        7.4         12.8
PLPIL-TFACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           36.0         2r.0      29.0             30.0       34.3        34.9
SECONhDARY                        27.0         3:i.0     31.0             25.4       23.5        22.2
ADULT LITERACT  EUN (PERtCUIT)       71.9        8!.6      87.0             84.0       63.7         71.8
CONS3UNPTION
PASSENIER CARS PER T)USDMD
POPULATIoN                         3.0          8.0       8.0              9.3        7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TNOUSAII
POPUILATIO                        22.0        72.0        ..             97.6       71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER ThOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4        10.0      I .0             21.8       14.1         28.1
NIISPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  17.0        l.0       18.0             25.9       16.3         45.2
CIMA AlNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6             ..       7.6              4.6        1.6          4.6
DIPLOhKENT
205AL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAHDS)    10100.0      12400.0   15400.0
FiM/.LL (PRCEIIT)                 34.4         3i.1      32.7             33.7       28.0        25.7
AGkI`7LTURE (PERCENT)             61.0         55.0      52.C             48.4       54.1         46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                15.2         15.8        ..
AURTICIPATION RATE (PERCElNT)
TOTAL                                39.8        36.6      35.3             38.9       37.8         33.8
KALE                                 52.1        411.6     47.1             48.6       50.3         48.1
FEMALE                               27.4        24.4      23.3             28.4       20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPMNDENCY RATIO               1.3         t.5        1.3             1.2        1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   28.8           ..        ..             17.3       19.5         23-6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF NONSEHOLDS  56.2         54.0      53.3             45.6       48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HO- SEHOLDS    4.2         3.6       5.5              6.5        5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.9         11.7      14.7             17.3       15.7         13.1
POVEPTY TAUGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE 'VVERTY 11C(R4
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URJAN                                *-          *-    250.0             140.8      155.9        191.9
RURAL                                *-          ..    190.0             112.8       97.9        193.1
EST?IKATED RELA IE POVERTY INhtM
LEVEL (US$ PER C APITA)
URBAN                                *            -     132.0               ..      143.7        319.8
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..             76.8       87.3        197.7
EST IPAIED POPULA. ION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (I PECFNT)
URBAN                               ..           ..      39.0             27.?       22.9         s9.8 P
RUR6:                               ..           ..      44               40.4       36.7         35.1
..Nut svalrla),le
Noct applicob!..
NOTES
/a    TFIe adjusted gi-o:p average. for each indicatcr are populstion-wel1hted geometric r"ans. exrl d-g the extreme
values of the ir-;icator and the rost populated country In each group.  Coverage ot countrier a.-ong the
indicators depc ds on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless oti,erwise  noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 anid 1961; for 1970, between  1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent E,tioate, between 1973 and 1977.
cL   East Asia & Iscific;   /d  Lower Middle Income ($28I-550 p.r capita. 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle Ineonoe
($551-1135 per capits. 1976);   /f  1950-55;   "  Av. 1960-62.
September 1978



- 23 -
ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS 01' SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                     -iO      OT   5  pages
HQ":  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not unifnrn.  Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excrete disposal, housing, incmee distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand  q. ke)                                                            Population per hospital bhd - total.  urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface ares comprisiog land area and inland waters,                      urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily               available in public and private general and specialized hospital and ro-
or permaaently for coops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                  habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                           at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, howevee, include health and nedi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita astimates at current market prices,               cal centers out permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical *a-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bauk Atlas (1975-77 basis);             siscant, n        midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                            provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Adeissions per hospital bed - Total number of adaissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                   from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum , natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                  HOUSING
Averase  isie of household (parsons per household) - total, urban, sod rural-
POPULATION AND VITAI STATISTICS                                                          A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, lid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                 and their main meals.   A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two e,d-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                         the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population ( ercent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                   hold vary.
tion; different cefinitions of urb-n areas may affect comparability                 Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average non-
aS data among cotntries.                                                              bar of persons per room in .11, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                      dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. be. - Mi-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                  unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                      Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total  urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above fnr agricultural land                 Conventienaj dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                 of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population *s atruc-ute (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-            EDUCATION
year population.                                                                   Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                 Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of a11 ages
growth rat.s of total and urban  id-year populations for 1950-60,                     at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                 populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (,ier thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                   different lengths of primary education: for countries with universal edu-
mid-year pepulation; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                  cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since soae pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                   above the official school ago.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                  Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                 tion requires at least four years of approved primary inatruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                        video general vocational, or teacher training ifstructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rare - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                 usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence cou000s are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                     excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                Vocational enrollment (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                       clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
FPeily planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                      or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family               Pupil-teacher ratio - primary. and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                     primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married woomen) - Percentage of                     spending levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control             Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to a11 married womos in same age group,                                       a percentage of total adult population aged 15 ye-ra and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                   CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                 Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passeng.r cars conprise motor cars
capita annual production of a11 food commodities,                                   seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply if calories (percent of requirements) - Cumputed from               vehicles
energy equivalent: of net food supplies available in country par capita            Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per dy.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imperts 1ees              broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and chan ges in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,           receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used  :n food procensing, and losses in distribution.  Re-               effect; data for recent years nay not be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiologioal needs for nor-              abolished licensing.
Mal activity and health consideriog esvironmeotal temperature, body                TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivr,rs for broadcast to general
weights, age and sex dietributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                public per thousand population; excludes unlicei,sod TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste a: household level,                                                    tries and in years when registration of TV sets woS in effect.
Per capita supply if protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                Newspaper  circulatio  (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net euppl' of food per day.  Not supply of food is defined as                  ton of "daily general interest newspaper", def ned as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                cation devoted primuarily to recording general ova.   It is conaidered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                 be "daily" if it appears at loser four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.           Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                 sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinmees and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as on average for the world, proposed by                   units.
PAO in the Third World Foed Survey.
Per capita protein aupplv from animal and pulse - Protein supply of foed            EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                  Total labor force (thousands) - Econoxically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-               forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                            tions in various countries ore not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                      as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,               Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, constructios, manufacturing and
and 1975                                                                              electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                Participation rate (percent) - total male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                             female labor force as prccertages of their respective populatios.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                 These are no's adjusted porticipation rates reflecting age-sex
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                   structure of the populatius, and long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
mocontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                   the labor force in age group of 15-64 years
and sanitary well") as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters free a house nay be considered as being within rea-                Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                 percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewifa or nembers of the household do not have to                   of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Accesa to excreta disposal (percent of population) - total  urban  and               Estimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excrete                     Absolute poverty income leve1 is th-t income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excrete                     nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
ditpo,.l m -y include the colloti-o and disposal, with or without                    *ffordble.
"teatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-borne sytems                  Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ Per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                   Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population par physician - Population divided by number of practicing                    per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at univar-ity level.                    Estimated Population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by nsmber of                          Percent of population (urbax and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate curses  practical nurses, and                      "relative poor" whichever is greater.
ass is tant nurses.
Ecenoxic sod nocial Data Division,
EConom.ic Analysis and Projections Department



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                               ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices)
US$ million       %           1966-71            1971-76              1977
GNP at Market Prices             20,602        100.0           5.1                6.6                  6.3
Gross Domestic Investment         6,197         30.1           5.9               11.3                  1.5
Gross National Saving             5,370         26.1           2.4                 7.5                 9.7
Current Account Balance            -827         -4.0
Exports of Goods, NFS /a          3,929         19.1          -0.5                5.7                 25.4
Imports of Goods, NFS /a          4,820         23.4           4.1                5.6                  5.8
OUTPUT, LABOR EORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY Ill 1977
Value Added                   Labor Force                   V. A. per worker
US$ million            %        MLllion          %              US$                %
Agriculture           5,789              28.1          7.7         47.5               752            59.1
Industry              7,149              34.7         2.2          13.6             3,250          255.5
Services              7,664              37.2         5.4          33.3             1,419          111.6
Unemployed              .                 .           0.9           5.6               .            _
Total/Average    20,602               100.0        16.2         100.0            1,272           100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                        Central Government
(P billion)           % of GDP             (P billion)             % of GDP
1977          1977           1971          1977           1977          1971
Current Receipts           22.8          14.8           11.3          20.0           13.0            9.2
Current Expenditure       20.1           13.0           10.1          17.7           11.5           7.6
Current Surplus             2.7           1.8            1.2           2.3            1.5            1.6
Capital Expenditures        5.5           3.6            1.6           5.1            3.3            1.3
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1972       1973       1974       1975       1976         1977
(P billion outstanding end period)
Money Supply                            6.5        7.3        9.0        10.3       12.1        14.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector            3.9        2.4        2.0        5.8         8.9        11.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector          12.6       16.2       24.2       28.5        33.6        38.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money as % of GDP                      11.5       10.1        9.0         8.9        9.2         9.7
General Price Index (1972 - 100)  100.0          116.5      156.3       166.9      182.3       200.4
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                     8.3       16.5       34.2         6.8        9.2         9.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector           -2.1      -38.5      -16.7      190.0        53.4        23.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector          21.7       28.6       49.4       17.8        17.9        13.1
/a National accounts data.
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
not applicable



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
1975    1976    1977                                    US$ million    %
(US$ million)
Coconut Products                    597       22.5
Exports of Goods, NFS          3,076   3,330   4,021   Sugar Products                         536      20.2
Imports of Goods, NFS          4,116   4,383   4,788   Forest Products                        288      10.8
Resource Gap (deficit = -)  -1,040  -1,053    -767   Mineral Products                         438       16.5
Fruits & Other Agric. Products    198          7.5
Interest Payments (net)          -53    -185    -320   Other Manufactures                    598       22.5
Other Factor Payments (net)   -149    -138                 Total                           2,655      100.0
Net Transfers                    318      269     260
Balance on Current Account    -924  -1,107    -827   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1977 /c
US$ million
Direct Foreign Investment        125      144      216
Net MLT Borrowing                                        Public Debt, including Guaranteed         3,656
Disbursements                  677   1,407   1,229   Nonguaranteed Private Debt                  2,907
Amortization                   318      368     544   Total Outstanding and Disbursed            6,563
Subtotal                     359   1,039      685
Other Capital (net) /a           -80    -236       90   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1977 /d
Increase in Reserves (+)        -521    -160      164
Public Debt, including Guaranteed           7.8
Gross Reserves                                           Nonguaranteed Private Debt                  9.8
(end year) /b               2,080   2,206   2,263   Total Outstanding and Disbursed               17.6
Net Reserves
(end year) /b                  265     105      269
Petroleum Imports                710      801     859
IBRD/IDA LENDING, December 31, 1978 (US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                 IBRD    IDA
Annual Averages       End Period   Outstanding and Disbursed              615.4   29.7
1976     1977    1978    Dec. 1978    Undisbursed                           1,087.3   30.5
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed   1,702.7   60.2
US$1.00 -  P   7.446    7.407    7.375    7.380
P 1.00  - US$ 0.134    0.135    0.136    0.135
/a  Includes SDRs, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities, use of IMF credit, and errors
and omissions.
/b  Reserves of the Central Bank and commercial banking system.
/c  Excludes short-term debt and IMF standby credLt and is on a disbursement basis.
/d  Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
iioge 1 of 14 pages
TPE STAI.TS OP BASH GROUP OPRRATIOWS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATBHENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of December 31, 1978
Loan or
Credit                                                           A0ounts (4 nillion)
Number      Year       Borrower          Purpose             Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Sixteen loans and two credits folly disbursed               252.4    19.5
720-PH     1971                         Rice Processing
and Storage       14.3                2.3
809-PF     1972    National Power
Corporation      Power                22.0                4.0
349-PH     1973    Republic of tbh
Philippines      Education II                  12.7       2.5
891-PH     1973                         Fisheries           11.6                0.1
939-PH     1973                         Potts               61                 O.8
950-PH     1973                         Second Highways   68.0                  6.1
984-PH     1974                         Aorora-Psoaranda
Irrigation        9.5                 4.2
998-PH     1974                         DFC-DBP I           50.0                4.4
1034-PH     1974    Natiunal Power
Corporation      Power                61.0                7.5
1035-PB     1974    Ropublic of the
Philippines      Populatioo           25.0               15.6
1048-PH     1974            "            Shipping            20.0               13.0
1052-PH     1974    Philippine
National Basnk   DFC                  30.0               15.3
1080-PH     1975    Republic of the   Tarlac
Philippines         IrrigatLn-        17.0                9.0
1102-PH     1975                         Rural
Developreot       25.0               19.2
1120-PH     1975                         Snall and Medium
Industries       30.0                 6.7
1154-PH     1976                         Nagot
Irrigation       42.0               26.8
1190-PH     1976                         DFC-DBP II          75.0               38.5
1224-T-PF  1976                          Education III       25.0                19.1
1225-PH     1976                         Livestock II        20.5               10.2
1227-PB     1976                         Chico Irrigation  50.0                 45.9
1272-T-PH  1976                          Manila Urban        10.0                 7.8
1282-PH     1976                         Manila Urban        22.0               17.2
1269-PH     1976                         Second Grate
Processing        11.5               11.4
1270-PH     1976                         Second Pisheries  12.0                  7.9
1353-Pd    1977                          Third Highueyo      95.0                87.9
1367-PH     1977                         JaLaur Irrigation 15.0                 11.7
1374-PH     1977                        PFurth Education  25.0                   22.0
1399-PE     1977    Central.  Hnk of  PFurth Rul-.
the Philippines   Credit              36.5               27.2
1414-PH     1977    Republic of the   National IrriBa-
Philippinon         ti-n Sys te.s
Toprosasnot       50.0               42.8
1415-PH     1977                         Proviscial Cities
Wter Supply    23.0                  20.9
1421-PH     1977                         Second Rural
-evolopse.t-
L1od Settlement 15.0                 14.7
1460-PH     1977    National Power
Corpoatiou       S-evebth Power       58.0               57.5
1506-PH     1978    Republic of the   Snollholder Tree
Philippi.es         Farning            8.0                8.0
1514-PF     1978    Philippine
National Bank   DFC (PDCP)            30.0               30.0
1526-PH     1978    Republic of the   Second National
Philippines         Ir-igation
Systens
Inpro--eent      65.0                65.0
790-PH     1978    Republic of the   Rural Irfra-
PhIlippines         structure                  28.0      28.0
S.8-PH     1978    Republic of the
Philippines     Education             2.0                2.0
1547-PH    1979    Repoblic of the   Rorl Elertri-
PhiLippi.es         fication          60.0               60.0
1555-PH     1978    Philippine
National Bank   DFC-PISO              15.0               15.0
1567-PH     1978    Repoblic of the
Philippines      MAGAT II            150.0              132.5
1572-PH     1978    Repoblic of the   IndustriaL
Philippines         Investment III  80.0                 75.0
1615-PH     1978    Republic of the   Manila Water
Philippines         Water Supply-II 88.0                 88.0
1525-PH*   1979    Republic of the   Nationai
Philippines R.esoaon                  35.0               35.0
Total /a                                         1,829.9    60.2  1,117.8
of uwhich has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                         127.2        -
Total mu outstanding                             1,702.7    60.2
Anount mId                          22.3
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                  13.1              9.2         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior tc exchange rate
adjet .ents)                                  1,693.5    60.2
Total ondisbursed                                1,087.3    30.5  1,117.8
*   Not yet affective.
/s Does not include the following 3 loans, which were signed on January 26,
1979, and are mt yet effective:
1639-PH  Magat II - Irrigation   21.0
1646-PH  Land Book                   16.5
1647-PH  Urban II                    32.0



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of December 31, 1978
Fiscal                                                      Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                          Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                                15.0      4.4     19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                        8.0        -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                   -      4.0      4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                           4.5        -      4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                   0.8      0.4       1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corporation of the
Philippines                                   -      2.2      2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation               6.2      2.1      8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                                15.0        -      15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9      0.3       2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5        -       1.5
1974         Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.  1.5          0.5       2.0
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation               1.2        -       1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                 7.0        -      7.0
1976         Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6      0.2      2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3      1.2       3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                    3.5       -        3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.  2.1          -        2.1
Total gross commitments                      73.1    15.3       88.4
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                        28.7    12.0      40.7
Total commitments now held by IFC            44.4      3.3      47.7
Undisbursed                                   5.1        -       5.1



- 28 -
ANNEX II
P'age 3 of 14 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness:  May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to: (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now generally progressing satis-
factorily, although mounting arrears are a source of concern and DBP is now
stepping up its supervision and collection efforts to deal with this. Bank
loans for subloans have been fully committed; however, because of the long
construction period of the large subprojects, full disbursement will be
delayed until mid-1979 and the Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1979.
Credit No. 472  Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project is financing the diversion of water from the Aurora
basin into the Pantabangan reservoir to provide year-round irrigation for
30,000 ha of rice land in Central Luzon. Although the need for foundation and
abutment area grouting on the two diversion dams was more extensive than
originally expected, progress on the transbasin diversion has been excellent.
Diversion of 75% of Aurora water, on closure of the first dam in July 1975,
was an early benefit for the Central Luzon rice growing area. The second dam
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14 pages
was closed on April 1, 1976, about one year ahead of schedule. In the service
area, lack of competition and high bids delayed awarding of contracts, but
five small local construction firms are now at work. Urgent work is being
done by government forces. Project costs have increased about 54% over
appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid inflation. Although there
are added benefits from early diversion resulting in additional water for
irrigation sooner than planned, and nearly 5,000 ha have been added to the
project, the rate of return is expected to fall from 17% at appraisal to
around 14%. The Credit has been fully disbursed and disbursement on the Loan
has begun. Because of delays in completion of civil works in the Penaranda
service area, full disbursement is not likely to be completed until mid-1979
and the Closing Date has been postponed to June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 891    Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is providing long-term credit to the private sector
through the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for marine and inland
fisheries development. The Loan became effective on December 5, 1973. It is
fully committed, and is expected to be fully disbursed before the Closing Date
(June 30, 1979). DBP has had difficulty in setting up a benefit monitoring/
evaluation system on its own, but it is now seeking local consultancy assistance.
Although not entirely satisfactory, loan collections have been considerably
better than for most of DBP's agricultural operations.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and to extend irrigation
to 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Upgrading of project roads
and construction of new roads also are included. In addition, the project
provides for a groundwater irrigation pilot project, a National Irrigation
Systems Improvement Study (NISIS), and a water management training program.
All major civil works contracts are in progress and the remaining work is
under way. General progress, although slower than originally estimated, is
improving. Progress on the groundwater, water management training and NISIS
components of the project is satisfactory. Due to the necessity of adding
drainage systems not included originally, completion of the project is now
expected to be delayed until the end of 1980.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out rural develop-
ment on the island of Mindoro. Progress in the implementation of irrigation



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14 pages
systems and on the improvement of the port of Calapan is now accelerating.
Progress has also been made on the Mangyan (Minority) Assistance Program,
reforestation of watersheds and drainage of schistosomiasis affected areas.
The rate of progress for road construction has now improved considerably
after delays caused by the unsatisfactory performance of a number of contractors.
Disbursements, which currently stand at 39% of projections, are lagging
behind physical accomplishment due to difficulties encountered in prompt
processing of force account work and in coordinating disbursement requests
between agencies.  Steps are now being taken to streamline disbursement
procedures.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on engineering and economic evaluation studies of the
proposed Magat dam and reservoir has been completed. Civil works by local
contract and force account for rehabilitation and new construction of canals,
drains and access roads is progressing well. The water management training is
continuing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1225   Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness:  September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to increase domestic production of livestock
products. Despite a relative slowdown in lending over the past year, the
project remains several months ahead of schedule and would be full-y disbursed
well before the Closing Date of June 30, 1982. The demand for piggery and
poultry subloans has exceeded appraisal estimates, but lending for beef cattle
development lags behind due to problems of land tenure, financial incentives,
technical knowledge and pasture development. The Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP), the project executing agency, has strengthened its technical
supervision of subloans, but further improvements are required in its management
information system and loan collection performance.
Loan No. 1227   Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:  July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Erosion Control Study and input-output monitoring program
are progressing satisfactorily. Although construction is nearly a year
behind schedule, sufficient equipment has been delivered so that force
account work can now proceed rapidly. Also bids have been opened for the
first major construction contract, and this construction has been started.
Road construction is now proceeding satisfactorily, although it began sub-
stantially behind schedule.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1269   Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Subloan commitments are expected to begin shortly, now that Loan No. 720 is
fully committed.
Loan No. 1270   Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines (DBP) to assist in increasing fish production for
domestic consumption. Fishing vessels, iceplants with cold storage, a slipway,
and new and rehabilitated milkfish ponds are being financed under the project.
The loan became effective on November 12, 1976. Subloan approvals by DBP were
ahead of schedule in the first half of 1977, but have slowed down considerably,
due to problems in procurement procedures for fishing vessels, and DBP's
increased emphasis on loan collection. The procurement issue has been resolved
and the project is expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1367   Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Detailed design for a major part of the works has been completed.
Contracts have been awarded for the procurement of equipment and vehicles.
Contracts for the improvement and enlargement of existing main canals of the
four systems are being awarded and construction has begun. The overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1399   Fourth Rural Credit Proiect; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The slow commitment rate continued to improve to 50% of appraisal
estimates, but recovery of the shortfall to date is no longer considered
possible within the original three-year implementation period. The shortfall
is due in large part to the sharp decline of demand for four-wheel tractors
and the absence of compensating growth in demand in other subloan categories.
Heavy damages afflicted by recent typhoons may further delay commitment. The
Central Bank is now conducting a reassessment of the lending program, and is
expected to submit to the Bank a proposal recommending necessary changes in
project design which would expedite the commitment but, at the same time,
would ensure the effective use of project funds.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1414   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project; $50 Million
Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
Topographic surveys and mapping have been completed ahead of schedule.
Project works are slightly behind schedule- however, with strengthening of
design teams in the regional offices, a major part of the design was completed
before the end of 1978. Construction activities during 1977/78 dry season were
limited to the improvement of secondary laterals and the construction of service
roads along these laterals in the Ilocos subproject.
Loan No. 1421   Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date:  December 31,_1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve its National
Resettlement Program through technical assistance, organizational changes and
pilot programs to provide infrastructure and agricultural support services in
three settlement areas. The loan became effective on October 27, 1977. Proce-
dural problems concerning budget releases and staff appointments have adversely
affected progress in project implementation and have resulted in the execution
of most scheduled events being about a year behind schedule. However, these
problems are now being resolved.
Loan No. 1506  Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million Loan
of January 23, 1978: Date of Effectiveness: May 11, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is a continuation of the US$2 million Bank-financed Tree-
farming Pilot Project (Loan 998-PH), with additional project components in
large-scale plantations, forestry research and planning. Operations have begun
for most project components. Although the large-scale plantation component is
below target because of insufficient seed supply and managerial constraints,
no delaying effect on project completion is anticipated. Initial budgetary
deficiencies are expected to be overcome at the latest by the second year.
Due to the early stage of the project, disbursements have not yet begun.
Loan No. 1526 Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement-Project: $65 Million
Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 20, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1984
The project is assisting the Government to improve and develop irri-
gation systems on 80,900 ha, control schistosomiasis and strengthen the National
Irrigation Administration regional offices. The Loan Agreement was signed on
March 15, 1978 and became effective on June 12, 1978. The project is in its
initial stages of mobilization and preconstruction activities. Topographic
surveys and mapping are ahead of schedule. Improvement of main and secondary
canals started in November 1978.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14 pages
Credit No. 790      Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The credit is financing the construction and improvement of basic
infrastructure in six provinces chosen on the basis of low level of per capita
income and inadequate infrastructure. The infrastructure funded includes
communal irrigation systems, improvement of ports, health stations, rural
water supply and village roads. The credit was signed on April 21, 1978.
The Project is in its initial stages of mobilization and preconstruction
activities. Construction work on communal irrigation systems and village
roads has started.
Loan No. 1567-PH   The Magat River Multipurpose Project-Stage II; $150 Million
Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 24, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project will assist the Government through completion of Stage II
of this project, to provide water to irrigation systems and improve systems
operation on 102,000 ha. Preconstruction works have been completed and works
on dam foundation grouting, drainage gallery tunneling and river diversion
tunnels are underway and expected to be completed this year. The civil works
contract for the main dam has been awarded and the contractor is in the
advanced stage process of mobilizing staff and equipment.
Loan No. 1626-PH   National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Expected Date of Effectiveness:
March 27, 1979; Closing Date: Decembe4 31, 1982
This loan was signed on December 21, 1978, and is expected to be
declared effective on March 27, 1979.
Loan No. 1639-PH   Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979; Expected Date
of Effectiveness: April 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
This loan was signed on January 26, 1979, and is expected to be
declared effective on April 26, 1979.
Loan No. 1646-PH   Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Expected Date of Effectiveness: April 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This loan was signed on January 26, 1979 and is expected to be
declared effective on April 26, 1979.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14 pages
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939    Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: July 15, 1979
Work at General Santos was completed in December 1978. Seventy
five percent of work at Cagayan de Oro is completed and the present projec-
tion is that the entire work will be completed by the end of May 1979.
Loan No. 950    Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
While over 98% of the construction program has been successfully
completed, one of nine national roads is far behind schedule due to difficulties
experienced by the contractors in prosecuting the work. For this reason,
project completion is expected to be delayed 24 months beyond the appraisal
schedule. UNDP-financed road feasibility studies were completed in June 1975,
detailed engineering for the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) in August
1976, and detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project in
October 1977. Weighbridges for axle load control have been procured, civil
works for permanent weigh stations are virtually completed, and the axle load
control program is being implemented. The total cost of the project has
increased substantially (about 32% above the appraisal estimate) due to the
oil price increases in late 1973, delays in project execution, and continuing
inflation. Disbursements have reached 90% of the loan amount but the present
Closing Date of June 30, 1979 will require extension to allow time for final
disbursements after project completion, expected in mid-1979.
Loan No. 1048   Inter-island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
The Government is relending the proceeds of the Loan to the Develop-
ment Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries for the
acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and conversions.
Commitments were initially slow because of lack of demand from the private
sector due to the lengthy period required for the processing of loans, restric-
tive collateral requirements by DBP, and unfavorable lending terms offered by
DBP in comparison with those extended by other lending institutions in the
Philippines. These problems are gradually being resolved.
Loan No. 1353   Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Contracts have been awarded for all national roads and work has
begun. Consultants for supervision of construction have been appointed and
have established themselves in the field. The technical assistance advisors
for maintenance improvement and road restoration have been appointed and took



- 35 -
ANNEX II
- Page 10 of 14 pages
up their duties beginning in September 1977. The training advisors were
appointed and began work in July 1977. The consultants for the road and
ferry feasibility studies began work in November 1977 and completed the
studies in December 1978. Consultants for workshop design and construc-
tion supervision began work in May 1977. Designs are completed and bids
*         for all contracts have been received and are being evaluated with contracts
for 8 out of 28 workshops awarded. After a delay of about 12 months, the
road maintenance and road restoration program is now beginning to be imple-
*         mented with planning and execution of road restoration projects under way,
procurement contracts for maintenance equipment, parts, tools and machinery
being awarded and normal maintenance activities being organized. Overall,
project costs are expected to remain close to appraisal estimates but indi-
cations are that project execution will be delayed by about 18 months due to
late start of some critical activities.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1.224   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government's
eight-year textbook program and providas for the development, produiction
and distribution of 27 million textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. Implementation is
proceeding on schedule, and project costs are well within appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374   Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project is assisting the Government in developing agricultural
education and training. It includes assistance for: specialized facilities
for forestry, animal science, and veterinary medicine; a regional agricultural
college in the Visayas; and training for extension workers and farmer leaders.
Implementation of the project is generally on schedule, with the exception of
civil works contract awards which have been delayed by about four months because
of delayed government clearances.  Project costs are within the appraisal
estimates.
Loan No. S-8-PH  Educational Radio Technical Assistance; $2 million loan of
April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The proposed project is assisting the Government to develop and evalu-
ate the cost effectiveness of educational radio in inservice teacher training
and primary classroom teaching. The loan became effective on August 22, 1978.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T  Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282   $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan is financing:  (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat-Dagatan areas, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area. Construction
on 1,500 of 2,000 serviced lots at Dagat-Dagatan is nearing completion. The
high school and health clinic in Tondo have been constructed and the subdivision
of lots in the Tondo priority area is also nearing completion. The progress of
the project is generally satisfactory. A paper on the status of this project
was submitted to the Executive Directors in December 1977.
Loan No. 1415   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Work on well construction has started in two cities, and bid
documents for pipe supply and installation are 95% complete. Civil works
contractors are currently being prequalified and major construction should
start within the next few months. Overall project implementation is several
months behind schedule because of administrative delays and difficulties in
land acquisition for well sites following hydrogeological studies by consult-
ants. The preparation of feasibility studies for water supplied to 11 cities
is on schedule as is also the Manila Sewerage Design Study. The Government
is about to start training of staff in the design of community water supplies.
Loan No. 1615   Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of July 26,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
This loan is assisting the Government to provide safe water for an
additional four million people in Metropolitan Manila, as well as improve the
service to some 3 million who are inadequately served at present. The prepara-
tion of design drawings, bid documents and appointment of consultants is well
in hand.
Loan 1647-PH    Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
January 26, 1979; Expected Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This loan was signed on January 26, 1979, and is expected to be
declared effective on April 26, 1979.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14 pages
Power Sector
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296  of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:  July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is helping the National Power Corporation to finance
the second unit of 150 MW at the Bataan thermal power plant, expansion
of the transmission system in Luzon and consultants' services. The project
was completed in mid-1977, two years behind schedule. Due to cost overruns,
a part of the transmission project was transferred to the Sixth Power Project.
The actual project cost as finally constructed is about US$59.3 million - an
increase of about US$11.0 million over the original estimates. The closing
date of the loan has been postponed from December 31, 1978 to December 31,
1979 to allow full disbursement of committed funds. Credit 296-PH was fully
disbursed in April 1975.
Loan No. 1034    Sixth Power;  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of a 100 MW hydropower plant at Pantabangan,
Luzon, transmission lines for the expansion of the Luzon grid and consultants'
services. The generating plant was commissioned in April 1977. The trans-
mission facilities will now be completed late in 1980, more than two years
behind schedule. The revised cost of the project is estimated at US$113.8
million, an increase of about 24% over the original estimate (US$92.0 million).
The cost overrun for the foreign exchange component is US$4.3 million (7%).
The closing date of the loan has been postponed from December 31, 1978 to
June 30, 1981 to allow additional time for completion of the transmission
systems and payment of the retention money.
Loan No. 1460   Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will include the expansion of the transmission
system in Luzon, a load dispatching center, consultants' services for manage-
ment improvement and a tariff study. The loan became effective on January 6,
1978. Progress on works is generally satisfactory, but, because of each
action by Government and the National Power Corporation (NPC) with regard to
tariff increases, the rate of return covenant has not been met. NPC has been
given another year to earn a rate of return of at least 8%.
Loan No. 1547   Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project will help finance the 1979/80 rural electrification
program of the National Electrification Administration. The loan became
effective on August 17, 1978. Procurement action is under way.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14 pages
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998    Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness:  September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the loan were relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
has been used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao.
Loan No. 1052   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The proceeds of the loan are on-lent by PDCP to financially and
economically viable industrial subprojects. As of November 2, 1978,
total commitments reached US$25.28 million.  Commitments and disbursements
have been slower than originally expected because of the poor investment
climate which prevailed until 1977 in the Philippines. Business activities
have picked up in 1978 and the loan is expected to be fully committed by
early 1979. Overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120   Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion of the funds has been fully disbursed. After a
slow start, commitment and disbursement of funds under the Industrial Guarantee
Loan Fund are now proceeding well. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative
Program ($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electritica-
tion Administration is, because of its experimental nature, facing management
and staffing problems. Disbursements on this component have therefore been
slow. Overall progress of the project is, however, satisfactory.
Loan No. 1190   Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness:  April 6, 1976;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the loan are relent by the Development Bank of the
Philippines for subloans to finance the foreign exchange component of mediumn
and relatively large industrial projects.  Commitments of funds, which were
initially much slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the
industrial sector as a whole, have recently improved. The Executive Directors
approved a proposal to reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and
medium industries on February 25, 1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement
to this effect was signed on March 16, 1977. As of October 13, 1978, the



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14 pages
allocation of $50 million for medium- and large-scale industry had been fully
committed. In addition, $13.9 million had been disbursed against the allocation
for small- and medium-scale industries.
Loan No. 1514   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines; $30 Million
Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:  June 23. 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan was signed on February 9, 1978, and became effective June 23,
1978.
Loan No. 1555   Philippine Investments Systems Organization (PISO); $15 Million
Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 12. 1978
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Proceeds of the loan are relent by PISO for financing the foreign
exchange component of imported capital goods and services for eligible
productive enterprises in the Philippine private sector. As of October 31,
1978, commitments for subloans totalling US$8.05 million had been made.
Since the pace of commitment is much faster than anticipated during loan
appraisal, the loan is expected to be fully committed by early 1979. Overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1572   Third Industrial Investment Credit Prolect through the
Development Bank of the Philippines; $80 Million Loan of
June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This loan was signed on June 6, 1978, and became effective
September 15, 1978.
Population
Loan No. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Implementation of the project continues satisfactorily. As of
October, 1978, 150 of the 219 project facilities had been completed, 29 were
under construction and 20 were to be started between November 1978 and
February 1979. Contractors had completed 80% of all construction work.
Management problems within the Commission on Population (POPCOM) still
persist, and will need to be resolved within the next six to eight months to
enable implementation of a second population project scheduled for Board
presentation in FY79.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplemental Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:              24 months
(b)  The project was prepared by the Government with the assistance of
consultants.
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:                 February 1976
First Bank mission to consider the project:  June 1977
(d)  Departure of the Appraisal Mission:             October 1977
(e)  Post-appraisal mission:                         October/November 1978
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                     January 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                  June 1979
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank and the Philippine Government have agreed on an implemen-
tation timetable to ensure effective project implementation.
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations the Borrower agreed that it would:
(a) continue the collection and analysis of traffic data on national
roads (para. 38);
(b) review sources of highway revenues to determine the adequacy
of road user charges (para. 39);
(c) implement an action program for road maintenance and restoration
acceptable to the Bank (para. 45);
(d) select consultants, technical assistance experts, and MPH and
MLGCD staffs whose qualifications and terms of reference would be
acceptable to the Bank (paras. 51 and 52).



IBRD 12320 R
220 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4OO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~FESURYJBS 197
LON                    S S j 0                                 PHHLIPPINES
WOO \              FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
AZ BA Y   +.{dE                   .       CONSTRUCTION
-X   PARIPY rCADS
no n R   a      -                SECOhOARY ROAOS
*-,- A-   Y -- RILW iAYS
DBOO                              ROWATINLS RDA0
NAIOALRAD I OSTRACTION AND
(  NtOR ROAD  IMPROvSmEIST
t M B LO N                                 A      a r a 
SA  AR '              SB SD 2940S 
y~~~~~~~~~~~A -E                              C  tIo            .L   .
VISAYA N  SEA
PAN AY              0
SFr~~~~~~~~~~~C    Tog  Mancu  1    ;00 ,
B0~~~~~~~
f   *Sr>'   g          (                  A     :   :,S~~~~~~~PHIZIPPINE  SEA.
XNE G RO  TX    a           ~        X 
LO H O~~~~L
.   - o w "  .-kh  a       X                                             7 B
}ke        i              : \>            i \   <v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ros; eridad
sn"wnW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d Z\Oro                AOolenCOnyu'ro <t
UYAN Sl~~~~~A ~MINDANAO
IL Z A IVA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ VAAC COl
t9 A  Ys  _O                  K   ,d~<   M  I  N  D  A  N  A  O   0 2   "N
K   DDETP   tz                                                      DA iI AYA pAC 1 
X   +;v1gn <XeS-Ror/E;X~~~~~~~UZ 
t   f   1'  - -: 'av~~~~,gl






$S Ck vL .                              PHILIPPINES
WF)l6Yb t$r    A    S       FOURTH HIGHWAY  PROJECT
/9;9M*¢-fl°^*t@le@ffiitti*  89   2 v     Other Project Elements
b 7T,  rT-PRiTioizt EOnFe R*i                                                       *                   ,    REftOIOALtA2EAOSOOOOPS    COO}TS TI--WAYf PROJECT
.... ... ....   OO. N T ERU OTION  AND  -EMEEf
i-iT"    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HIOHGWA  p~LO  S,
>eX7    ib>e  4   g      ___ _ FeYOTTROCIOSfL  SU UO RMIRfOROEMOTA t N         FIRST HfGH fRAY PROJECT LEAfR 7tR-FO
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ JEfA/ISFgRUCIGAO¢fY$COSIESATtsONDG H F YRJCf T LIR  -
'    :        RbstbX giagelo    ff"zzLnu   7       A~~~-        A    AREA %OEEfCiTi          kTERRCROJ-EfCORIS3i
mnwe __ COSCTT     MAJO RAS
v   South   CShina    Sea                         l                   ;                  >-E                 n_ -R             E    
:   :                      >1   ft o   AT   \ }          f~~~~~~~~~~~                             ~      ~    ~~~~~ *   AIRPORCff  A,   CA    SO , T  60R.b
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATiE  MPOGOA AOAOOOAOCTSRO 'le                                                        55 - RE  tOO
6<                     RThIJhPRQC      Sea             20   .0 eto
0~~~                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~   -- T,,t                            ,,i-A                             0,,{t   *
0              S                                    <:; X Wtx~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"h"'UA Sea                                                  if
14-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                            -                                                                   11'i' T
<va  Soi,/uz  Sea -D-m2                                          '.4f     A?inooooo      So    MA
AREA ORf2
ITTINii   C 0NDAN0 i-p  $
Ti-II~TI5 Tot  Si-ITTls>                                                                                                                       X3
Si-Ti    Sii-R'                                                                                                                                   /         G/
<  '                                       <>                         L 5~~~~~~~C/aCTi  Sec                                                         sicg, 
1-7-~~~~~~~*
5.5,/05               Lt- c2                                                                                                                                                          Cf O'J
,_  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _     |  5                                   I           2RE"  -   1       ,-     iSO'                      i-"         12C'         - 



