Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2797-BAR
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECI
February 29, 1980
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BARBADOS
STAFF APRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Since July 1975)
Currency Unit    =      Barbados Dollar (BDS$)
US$1    =      BDS$2
BDS$1    =      US$0.50
BDS$1 million = US$500,000
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BDB      -   Barbados Development Bank
BIDC     -   Barbados Industrial Development Corporation
BIMAP    -   Barbados Institute for Management and Productivity
BMFC     -   Barbados Mortgage Finance Company
BNB      -   Barbados National Bank
CARICOM  -   Caribbean Common Market
CDB      -   Caribbean Development Bank
CET      -   Common External Tariff
EIB      -   European Investment Bank
EPA      -   Export Promotion Agency
EPC      -   Export Promotion Corporation
IDB      -   Inter-American Development Bank
NTB      -   National Training Board



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Table of Contents                          Page
I. THE ECONOMIC SETTING.                                                  1
Introduction .
Major Economic Activities .
Population and Employment.                                         2
II.  THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR.                                              3
Structure and Growth.                                              3
Manufactured Exports.                                              4
Industrial Incentive Policies.                                     5
Tariff Policy.                                                     7
Industrial Estates.                                                7
Industrial Sector Outlook.                                         8
III. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR.                                                 8
introduction.                                                      8
Main Financial Institutions.                                       9
Monetary and Financial Policy .10
Trends and Prospects in Industrial Lending .12
IV.   THE PROJECT ..............................................        12
A.  Project Objectives and Content .......................    12
B. The Industrial Estates and Investment Promotion
Program   ............................................      14
Objectives   ............................................     14
Institutional Background .............................    14
Future Operations ....................................        16
Construction Program .................................        17
Execution Schedule and Procurement Norms ....      .........    18
Technical Assistance and Training ....        ................    20
Capital Costs and Financial Arrangements ....      .........    20
C.  The Industrial Lending Program .......................    23
Objectives   ...........................................      23
The Barbados Development Bank (BDB) ....       ..............    23
Past  Operations   ......................................     25
Future Operations and Prospects ......................    26
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Barbados in
September 1979. The mission comprised Messrs. Penalver and Goderez, and
Ms. El Baroudy (all of the Bank), Mr. Bolte (UNIDO/IBRD) and Mr. Mitchell
(Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TAble of Contents (Continued)
Page
D.   The Export Promotion Program  .........................                      28
Objectives  ...........................................                      28
Institutional Background .i...........................                       28
The Export Promotion Corporation (EPC)  ....                 ...........     29
Technical Assistance to the EPC  ......................                      30
E.   The Vocational and Management Training Programs                   ......     31
Vocational Training  ..................................                      31
Management Training  ..................................                      33
F.   Overall Project Costs and Financing Plan  ....                 .........     34
V.    THE BANK LOAN  ............................................                       36
Borrower and Terms  ........................................                      36
Channeling of Bank Funds  .................................                       36
Loan Components and Terms to Final Users  ....                   .............    36
Free Limits  ..............................................                       37
Procurement, Disbursement  and Auditing  ...................                      38
Repayment Terms of Bank Loan ...;                   .........................     39
Project Benefits and Risks  ...............................                       39
VI.    AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  ............................                        40
Agreements  ...............................................                       40
Recommendation  ...........................................                       42
ANNEXES
1.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the Proposed Loan *--.                           43
2.    Supporting Tables and Charts   .........s......................                          44
3.    Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File .........                          73
MAP



I. THE ECONOMIC SETTING
Introduction
1.01      Barbados, a small island in the Southeastern Caribbean Sea, has an
area of 431 km2 and a population of 250,000. GDP per capita is relatively
high at close to US$2,000 (1978: US1,940) and incomes are fairly evenly
distributed. Since independence (in 1966), the main economic base of the
country has shifted from sugar cane agriculture to tourism and industry. Raw
sugar production peaked in 1967 at over 200,000 tons, declining to an average
of little over 100,000 tons per year during 1974-1978. In spite of recent
small gains in non-sugar crops, the share of agriculture and fishing in GDP
declined from 16% in 1970 to about 11% in 1978 (Annex 2, T-1).
Major Economic Activities
1.02      Locally produced oil and natural gas have in recent years provided
an increasing share of primary energy supply while the importance of bagasse
as domestic energy source has declined due to the reduction in sugar pro-
duction. Domestic crude oil production rose from 13,000 barrels in 1973 to
over 240,000 in 1978 and currently satisfies over one fifth of domestic
consumption of petroleum products. Nevertheless, foreign exchange expendi-
tures for imports of domestically consumed oil and petroleum products have
more than tripled since 1973 to BDS$38 million in 1978 (7% of total imports).
The search for additional off-shore oil is continuing and prospects are
considered good for a substantial increase of domestic production in the
medium term. Eventually; about one third of consumption is expected to be
satisfied from domestic sources, 1/ but foreign exchange expenditures for
petroleum imports will continue to rise rapidly.
1.03      Tourism is an important dynamic factor in the Barbadian economy.
While tourism in other Caribbean countries has suffered from economic reces-
sion and political and social unrest, it has prospered in Barbados, providing
rapidly increasing shares of domestic product, employment and foreign exchange
earnings. Tourist arrivals were 317,000 in 1978, twice above the number
of 1970 and the share of tourism in GDP reached 11.6% compared to 8.7% in
1970. Direct employment in tourism is estimated at about 6,700 with an
additional 6,000-7,000 service jobs catering mainly to tourism. Thus, the
total employment in tourism represents about 15% of the labor force. 2/ Gross
foreign exchange earnings from tourism also rose rapidly, reaching BDS$257.0
million in 1978. Tourism has important linkages to other sectors of the
1/   Winston Cox:  Alternative Sources of Energy Available to Barbados, Central
Bank of Barbados, 1979.
2/   A review of the tourism sector is provided in the Economic Memorandum on
Barbados, Annex III (Report No. 2506-BAR).



- 2 -
economy, particularly construction activities that benefit from building of
hotels and tourism related infrastructure, and provides a potentially important
market for domestic food production and other consumer goods as well as
handicrafts.
1.04      The manufacturing sector has demonstrated a simileé' dynamic growth
and has accelerated after 1977 mainly through the establishmeat of foreign-
owned enterprises producing garments and assembling electronic components for
export. Nevertheless, in 1978 manufacturing still provided only 11.3% of GDP
and about 16% of total employment. While local enterpreneurs have been largely
reluctant to enter into manufacturing, as import trade has remained extremely
profitable, a small group of local industrialists has emerged in recent years,
with basic training and experience frequently obtained in North America and
the UK. These entrepreneurs are operating mostly small-scale manufacturing
enterprises and need financial, technical and marketing assistance to reach
more economic plant size, improve product quality and broaden their markets.
The proposed project would help to provide needed assistance to this group of
manufacturing enterprises, and to attract increasing investment by export-
oriented foreign enterprises.
Population and Employment
1.05      Long-term population growth in Barbados has been traditionally
limited by migration to North America and the UK and by a declining birth
rate, (resulting in a net population increase of less than 1/2% per year
between 1960-1977). However, emigration has fallen continuously since 1960
and substantial numbers of well educated and trained Barbadian nationals return
from overseas to benefit from improved living conditions. This reversal of
traditional migration trends already generated in 1977 a small migration
surplus. On the other hand, the secular decline of the birth rate from 33.5
per 1,000 in 1960 to 17.0 per 1,000 in 1977 seems to be leveling off and the
growth rate of total population could rise. 1/
1.06      Migration and population trends 2/ indicate that unemployment will
continue to present a serious challenge to economic policy. The unemployment
rate which had been below 10% of the labor force during most of the 1960's in-
creased sharply to about 22% during the economic recession of 1975. Since then
it has declined to 16% in 1977 and about 15% in 1978, 3/ but further rapid
reduction of unemployment cannot be expected due to population and migration
1/   There are indications that Barbados is currently attracting immigrants from
the neighboring Caribbean, which has faced natural disaster, economic
decline and political instability. According to observations by industri-
alists an undetermined number of illegal immigrants is currently looking
for employment.
2/   The age structure of the population indicates that the number of entrants
to the labor market will rise rapidly. In 1977, 24% of the population
were in the age groups of 10-19 years compared to 20.2% in 1960 and
23.7% in 1970.
3/   Based on preliminary data for March-September 1978.



-3-
trends. The manufacturing sector's contribution to employment generation has
been above average, supplying about one-third of the 10,000 additional jobs
created between 1970 and 1979. Three quarters of all jobs created in recent
years in manufacturing were in clothing and electronic components enterprises
operating in the industrial estates established by the Barbados Industrial
Development Corporation (BIDC) (Annex 2, T-3). The proposed project would
assist BIDC in expanding its industrial estate and factory construction program
that would help generate an estimated 3,000 - 4,000 jobs during the three-year
project implementation period.
1I. THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR
Structure and Growth
2.01      Manufacturing has grown at about 6% per annum on average since 1970,
slightly below the growth rate of tourism and considerably above the average
for the whole economy. Growth of industrial production leveled off in 1977
(Annex 2, T-2), but there are indications of a strong recovery in 1978/79.
Consumer goods industries dominate the industrial sector in Barbados, with
foods, beverages, tobacco, clothing and furniture accounting for more than
half of value added, sales and employment of the enterprises surveyed (Annex 2,
T-4) 1/. Machinery and equipment manufacturing, which includes electronic
components, also provide an important share of employment and value added.
The degree of industrial processing performed in Barbados, as expressed by the
ratio of domestic valued added to sales is still low at 0.24 (0.3 when oil
refining is excluded), due to the dominating role of food, apparel and com-
ponent industries, where mainly packaging or assembly are involved. The
industrial structure has basically remained unchanged during the 1970's,
although major product categories of food, beverages, apparel and electronic
components have further expanded, while oil refining, chemicals, and non-
metallic mineral products stagnated.
2.02      The manufacturing sector is dominated by foreign-owned enterprises,
some of which operate as enclaves with limited links to the local economy
(other than employment of labor, lease of factory buildings and consumption of
water and power). One half of the 184 manufacturing enterprises surveyed in
1977 were fully foreign owned (42) or had major foreign participation (53).
About 25 of the fully foreign owned enterprises operate as enclave industries.
Foreign owned enterprises are on average larger than locally owned firms; they
provide 70% of employment in manufacturing and generate about 80% of industrial
exports. The largest manufacturing enterprises in Barbados employ about 300
workers which is small compared to enterprises in large developing countries.
Average employment in manufacturing firms (with employment above 5 workers) was
about 50 in 1977, ranging from an average of 70 in foreign-owned firms to 35 in
local firms.
1/ A survey of industrial establishments covering probably 80-90% of
manufacturing output is conducted annually by the Barbados Statistical
Services.



-4-
2.03      Enclave industries have a particularly strong representation in the
manufacturing of electronic components and garments. Moreover, since most of
the applications for establishment of enclave industries are for these two
products, further strengthening of their shares in total production and
employment can be expected. Foreign owned non-enclave industrial enterprises
are representd in a large number of product groups, particularly food,
beverages, textiles, and garments. Nationally owned manufacturing enterprises
operate in all major industrial sectors (with the exception of assembly of
electronic components) with some concentration in foods and beverages, apparel,
furniture and non-metallic mineral products,. Nevertheless, as can be expected
from a small country with a limited resource base and a long tradition of
importing all manufactures, the overall industrial base is still very thin.
However, in a number of consumer products, particularly garments and furniture,
nationally owned enterprises are establishing economically sized production
facilities for the supply of local and overseas markets.
Manufactured Exports
2.04      While export oriented sugar agriculture has been declining, manu-
factured exports gained rapidly in importance during the 1970's. Manufactured
exports rose from BDS$25.6 million in 1970 to BDS$131 million in 1978 (exclud-
ing re-exports), and their share in total domestic merchandise exports increased
from 41% to 70% during this period (Annex 2, T-5). The strong growth of manu-
facturing exports was mainly due to the two product categories of garments
and electronic components, which increased their total share in manufactured
exports from 40% in 1970 to 60% in 1978, whereas traditional manufactured
exports of processed food, rum and other beverages manufactured by local firms
stagnated in real terms. The share of exports in total industrial sales
(excluding oil refining) was a very high 46% in 1977 and probably exceeded 50%
in 1978, since manufactured exports rose by about 30% in real terms (Annex 2,
T-7). Production of textiles, apparel, machinery and electronic components
have particularly high export orientation, while foods, beverages, furniture
and non-metallic mineral products are manufactured mainly for the local
market.
2.05      The direction of manufactured exports is determined to a large
extent by the origin of the foreign industrial enterprises operating in
Barbados. Affiliations of mostly US, Canadian and British enterprises gen-
erally ship their production to their home countries,. Thus, in 1978 about one
half of manufactured exports went to these three countries 1/ (Annex 2, T-8).
The CARICOM countries represent also important markets for Barbadian manu-
facturers, particularly since growing exports to Trinidad and Tobago have
partly compensated for the trade restrictions imposed in 1976 by Jamaica and
Guyana. Nearly 40% of manufactured exports are shipped to the CARICOM market
whereas the other European and Latin American markets have so far only absorbed
marginal quantities of Barbadian manufactures. The establishment of an Export
Promotion Corporation (EPC) that would be supported by the proposed project,
would help to diversify the product composition of manufactured exports and
assist exporters, particularly local manufacturers, to establish new markets
outside the CARICOM.
1/   About BDS$10.0 million of electronic components were exported to
Singapore and Puerto Rico probably for further processing in other
foreign subsidiaries before being shipped to the U.S.



-5-
Industrial Incentive Policies
2.06      Policies for the promotion of industrial development were initiated
in Barbados in 1958 with the Pioneer Industries Act, followed in 1963 by an
Industrial Incentives Act. Both laws provide tax and import duty concessions,
and the majority of industrial enterprises in Barbados qualifying for incentives
still benefit from this legislation (currently 73 enterprises). An Industrial
Development Act was passed in 1969 granting tax exemption and duty free
import of production inputs to enterprises exporting 100% of production; 8
enclave industries currently operate under this provision. The Fiscal Incen-
tives Act of 1974 was passed to implement the agreement between the Common
Market members to harmonize national tax and duty incentives to industry. So
far 25 firms have been approved under the Fiscal Incentives Act, while enter-
prises approved before 1974 continue to benefit from the earlier incentive
legislation.  Thus, 106 industrial firms of a total of 180 benefit from varying
levels of import duty and tax concessions under one of the four Acts. 1/.
This group of enterprises includes virtually all foreign-owned and all larger
nationally owned industries, and provides about 80% of employment and value
added in manufacturing and close to 100% of industrial exports. The group of
about 74 smaller and mostly locally owned manufacturing enterprises which are
not 'approved' under incentive laws may still benefit from duty free imports of
raw materials and machinery in accordance with individual decisions by the
Trade Incentives Committee which operates under the Ministry of Finance. In
fact, the majority of the non-approved enterprises have also been granted this
concession on an individual basis. In addition, enterprises with expiring
duty free import concession from earlier incentive legislation can expect to
have part of the benefits renewed in this way by the Trade Incentives Committee.
Therefore, with the exception of a few small scale industries, industrial
enterprises in the island can import and export duty free and without restric-
tions, operating virtually under conditions equivalent to those of a free
trade zone.
2.07      The Fiscal Incentives Act of 1974 established a list of approved
products, whose manufacturing is considered to be beneficial to the economic
development of the country, taking into account existing production capacity,
employment generation and risk of failure of production. In addition, there
are 35 product categories which are being produced in the island but are not
eligible for the benefits of the Act, most of which face excess capacity
for the supply of the domestic market. These include beer, concrete
products, paper bags, rum and shirts. Enterprises which do not already
benefit from earlier incentive legislation may obtain a licence to manufacture
an approved product, provided they satisfy criteria of adequate finance,
staffing, production facilities and raw material supply. BIDC reviews the
applications for production licenses and makes recommendations to the Minister
of Trade and Industry. The criteria used to evaluate applications have been
1/   The legal provisions under the Pioneer Industries Act of 1958 have expired
and it is not clear whether or not the 13 enterprises classified under
this Act still obtain the incentives provided.



-6 -
continuously refined since 1974, but further improvement, especially coordina-
tion with other policy measures, are required. For example, as enclave
industries exporting 100% of their production are currently subject to the
same criteria used to evaluate firms supplying the domestic market, they would
not obtain approved status for the production of shirts, nails or rum as these
are non-approved products. The Government intends to eliminats this unnecessarily
restricting provision from the Act and improve procedures for &2proval under the
Fiscal Incentives Act in order to make them more transparent to the applicants
and less prone to informal pressures.
2.08      Strengthening of criteria and procedures for granting duty free
import of raw materials and machinery to enterprises that are not approved
under the Fiscal Incentives Act may also be necessary. Currently, a minimum
volume of employment of 20 workers in the garment industry and of 6 workers in
most of the industries is required to obtain the duty free import privilege,
mainly in order to.protect industries with excess capacity from additional
competitors and to limit the need for control of imports by the customs
office. Import duties on raw materials represent an important share of
production cost of small-scale industries and reduce their competitiveness
vis-a-vis larger industries benefitting from duty-free imports. The develop-
ment of competitive small-scale industry would require a reconsideration of
the procedures for granting exemption from import duties for non-approved
industrial enterprises.
2.09      The import duty privilege of enterprises whose benefits under the
incentive legislation have expired may be renewed by discretionary action of
the Trade Incentive Committee, and expiring tax exemptions are automatically,
but only partially, re-established on the basis of tax legislation. Depending
on the profit share due to exports outside CARICOM, an "export allowance" is
granted of up to 50% on income tax on these profits. 1/ Thus, an enclave
enterprise whose tax exemption expires will automatically obtain an income tax
rebate of 50%. The effectiveness of this export incentive is probably very
limited for enclave and other foreign owned firms as they tend to determine
input and output prices in a manner which minimize local profits. For locally
owned firms, profits earned in exports outside CARICOM are small and the tax
rebate is currently unimportant but may become a considerable incentive as new
markets are developed.
1/   The allowance is calculated according to the following schedules:
Export profits (as percent of         Allowance (as percent of income
total profits)                    tax on export profits)
10% - 20%                                 25%
21% - 40%                                 35%
41% - 60%                                 45%
over 60%                                 50%



-7-
Tariff Policy
2.10      Tariff protection in Barbados was traditionally low, as would be
expected from a very open economy. However, upon joining CARICOM in 1973,
tariff levels had to be increased somewhat to conform with the CARICOM Common
External Tariff (CET). Nominal protection afforded by the CET to Barbadian
industry is moderate at between 0% to 60% and total customs collection is only
about 10% of CIF import value. Effective protection to industry provided by
the CET, however, is substantially larger, due to the basically processing
character of Barbadian industry with a small share of domestic value added
in sales (25% on average) and duty free import of most production inputs.
Exemption from the CET for approved enterprises and for non-approved firms
granted the duty free import concession, as well as import licensing provide
additional policy instruments for industrial development. Approximately 130
product categories - about 30 agricultural products and 100 manufactured
products - can only be imported with prior license. Restriction of imports to
protect industries in the CARICOM countries are imposed on about 30 product
categories - mainly paper products and clothing - which are produced in other
Common Market countries and would be affected by re-exports from Barbados.
Domestic industry is protected through import licensing of a broad variety of
about 80 product categories, that are non-competitive with local and CARICOM
industries, but could unfavorably affect the balance of payments if imported
in unforeseen large quantities. Cars are the most important item in this
category. While no analysis exists of the effect of restrictive import
licensing in terms of protection of Barbadian industry from external competi-
tion, it appears that particularly the garment industry producing for the
domestic market has substantial excess capacity, low efficiency and high
product prices which may be resulting to some extent from restrictive licens-
ing of competing imports.
Industrial Estates
2.11      Construction of factory buildings in industrial parks by BIDC has
proved to be a very important incentive to industrialization in Barbados.
Over a twenty-year period, BIDC has constructed over 1 million sq. ft. of
factory space in 9 industrial parks. Currently more than 5,000 workers
are employed in enterprises operating in industrial parks, over 1/3 of manu-
facturing employment. All enclave enterprises, most of the other foreign
owned firms and a large number of small and large locally owned enterprises
are located in the industrial estates. Rents and purchase prices of factory
space in the industrial estates are below the market level and industrial
firms have been subsidized through low rents, particularly small-scale local
manufacturers. Foreign firms have also benefitted from the incentive of
subsidized rents although the rental price of buildings has been less import-
ant than the availability of suitable factory space in a small country with
limited land for factory construction. Foreign firms, particularly those
engaged in assembly operations are generally not prepared to establish manu-
facturing operations in a small developing country, like Barbados, if they
have to go through the complicated process of factory building. Therefore the
high rate of industrialization which Barbados experienced during the last 20
years could not have been achieved without BIDC's program of constructing
industrial estates. The support of BIDC's construction program by the pro-
posed project would be an effective means to help Barbados achieve the targets
of employment generation and export growth set in the Government's development
plan for 1978-1982.



-8-
Industrial Sector Outlook
2.12      Barbados' overall economic policy and industrial incentives are
generally well conceived and administered, as indicated by the considerable
industrial growth achieved in the last two decades and are suitable for the
achievemer4t of the goals set in the country's four-year development plan for
1978-1982. The plan focuses on continued rapid creation of employment and
increase of manufactured production and exports. Employment in manufacturing
is expected to increase by about 1,250 per year on average (5,000 for the
four-year planning period) reaching a total of 19,000 in 1982, about 18.6% of
total projected employment in that year. Manufactured production and exports
are planned to grow at 8% per year in real terms. These goals are compatible
with achievements during the period 1970-1978 and, with suitable policies
already under implementation, it should be possible to improve on these
targets.  The proposed project would play an important role in providing the
necessary factory space and financing for the planned increase of industrial
production and employment, as well as the necessary support and technical
assistance to the institutions responsible for export promotion, and voca-
tional and management training, thus effectively supporting the achievement of
rapid growth of manufacturing exports and the strengthening of locally owned
industry.
III. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
Introduction
3.01      Barbados had a very open financial and monetary system and no
monetary policy as such until the early 1970's. The country was a member of
the East Caribbean Authority, the currency was the East Caribbean dollar (tied
to the pound sterling), inflows and outflows of capital were free of controls
and the money supply was determined by trade developments and capital movements.
Under these circumstances, Barbados became a regional financial center during
the 1960's and received substantial inflows of private capital which helped
finance the large increases in tourism and manufacturing activity, and provided
high liquidity to the banking system until 1972.
3.02      The above situation was substantially altered after 1971 as a result
of a changed economic environment that included economic stagnation and
growing inflation. Foreign capital inflows started to decline in 1972 and the
world recession of 1973-75 aggravated the problems. The imposition of import
restrictions in 1973 and the increases of import duties to conform with the
CARICOM common external tariff contributed to generate domestic inflation
levels well above international inflation in 1974 and 1975. Interest rates
became negative in real terms, the flow of financial savings into the banking
system dropped as the public tried to protect itself against inflation by
accelerating consumption (thus creating further pressure on imports), and
exchange controls were introduced to prevent capital flight.



- 9 -
3.03      The Central Bank of Barbados was established in May 1972 and was
given responsibility for the country's monetary and financial management. The
first issue of the new domestic currency, the Barbados dollar (BDS$) took
place in November 1973, and in late 1975, the BDS$ was fixed at a parity of
BDS$1-US$0.50, ending a 350-year old link with the pound sterling. The
Central Bank started its operations in the middle of a domestic economic
crisis and shortly before the oil crisis and subsequent world recession. As a
result, its monetary policy only started to show its impact after 1976, when
inflation dropped to about 5%, real interest rates became positive again,
investment showed more signs of recovery and the Central Bank began to exercise
greater control over the expansion of consumer credit and to use selective
rediscount facilities. More frequent use of reserve requirements as an active
ingredient in the policy mix also helped to improve the Central Bank's control
over the financial sector.
Main Financial Institutions
3.04      In addition to the Central Bank, Barbados' major financial institu-
tions include eight foreign-owned private commercial banks, the government-
owned Barbados National Bank (BNB) and Barbados Development Bank (BDB), and
several mortgage banks (Trust Companies). Also, the National Insurance Board
and the insurance companies channel substantial volumes of financial resources
into the public sector (through their large holdings of Treasury Bills and
Debentures) and to the mortgage market.
3.05      Commercial Banks.  The foreign-owned private commercial banks have
traditionally been the most significant group of financial institutions in
Barbados, providing about 80% of total private sector credit and serving as
the main vehicle for the mobilization of domestic financial resources.
However, their share in the total time and savings deposits has been steadily
decreasing, from more than 98% in 1972 to about 90% in mid-1979 whereas deposits
in Trust Companies have grown at a much faster rate (Annex 2, T-9). Personal
loans and lending to the distributive trades continue to be the main components
of commercial bank lending to the private sector (Annex 2, T-10). Together,
these two sectors which accounted for 44.5% of the total in 1973, increased
to 47% in 1978 in spite of Central Bank efforts to reallocate credit. The
three subsectors receiving most of the remaining commercial bank lending are
tourism, industry and construction. The share of lending going to industry
increased from 8.5% in 1973 to more than 10% in December 1978, and to about
12.5% in June 1979, when the total amount outstanding reached BDS$52 million.
While most of commercial bank lending to industry (and to other sectors) is
for short-term, it also includes some amounts of medium-term lending, mostly
up to five years but sometimes reaching seven or even ten years.
3.06      The Barbados National Bank (BNB).  The enactment of the Barbados
National Bank Act of 1978 created the first domestic commercial bank in Barbados,
the fully government-owned BNB. The intention was not only to initiate the
process of "localization" of the commercial banking system but also to ration-
alize the structure of public sector financial institutions by creating a



- 10 -
conglomerate including the Sugar Industry Agricultural Bank, the Agricultural
Credit Bank and the agricultural portfolio of the BDB into BNB's Agricultural
Division, the Barbados Savings Bank and the local branch of the Bank of
America into its Commercial Division, and the Barbados Mortgage Finance
Company (BMFC), into a majority-owned subsidiary. The Act included also a
provision for incorporating the remaining portfolio of BDB (izdustry and tourism)
to BNB but the provision was not implemented, partly as a result of intensive
lobbying efforts by BDB's board. As of March 31,1979, BNB had a total port-
folio of about BDS$39 million, of which one-third were agricultural loans and
about one quarter personal loans (mainly for land purchase and low income
housing). Loans to manufacturing were only 10% of its total portfolio. BNB's
commercial division offers higher deposit rates than the private commercial
banks (4% for savings deposits) and the interest on deposits in BNB is tax
free. While BNB has been able to attract qualified staff by paying competi-
tive salaries, its multiple and potentlally conflicting objectives (which
include trying to reduce the oligopolistic power of private commercial banks
by offering higher deposit rates and operating efficiently with reduced
spreads, but also to finance agriculture at highly subsidized rates) may
become a burden in the future.
3.07      The Barbados Development Bank (BDB), started its operations in 1969,
and concentrated in providing medium- and long-term resources particularly to
the tourism sector, but also to industry and agriculture. During the last two
years the pattern of lending has changed substantially as lending to tourism
has remained stable, the agricultural portfolio was transferred to BNB and
lending to industry has continued to increase steadily. While tourism still
accounts for nearly two thirds of the total portfolio, lending to industry
(including small scale industry) accounted for about 50% of total lending in
1978, and BDB has become the main source of medium- and long-term resources to
small and medium scale industrial firms in Barbados. The proposed project
would assist BDB in expanding its industrial lending program and would help
strengthen its project identification and appraisal capabilities, as well as
to improve the loan administration.
Monetary and Financial Policy
3.08      In recent years, the Central Bank has expanded its role in the
management and control of the country's monetary and financial system and has
taken a number of measures to influence the volume of domestic credit. Facing
a critical situation in the country's foreign reserves by the end of 1976, it
imposed a freeze on consumer installment credit in early 1977, additional
ceilings were also established on distribution and personal lending, and the
commercial banks' reserve requirements were increased from 6 to 8%. The
limitations on distribution and personal lending were eased in mid-1978 as the
foreign exchange situation improved, and to encourage higher commercial bank
lending to the productive sectors of the economy, the Central Bank estab-
lished several rediscount lines and insurance and guarantee schemes for
exports and small business.
3.09      Rediscount lines for sugar industry, non-sugar agriculture, industry
and tourism were established in July 1977. Shortly afterwards another line
was open for small retail trade. Of these rediscount lines only the sugar



- 11 -
industry line was extensively used. As of June 1978, of an allocation of
BDS$69 million, nearly BDS$61 million had been used (BDS$37.5 for overseas
sugar marketing, BDS$14.4 million for sugar manufacturing and BDS$9 million
for sugar cane growing), whereas, during the same period, only BDS$1.4 million
was used for export industries and BDS$48,000 for small trade. The main
reasons for this limited use have been the commercial banks' high liquidity
situation and the small spreads in the rediscount lines, particularly when
compared with the much larger spreads on commercial banks' own resources
(Annex 2, T-l1).
3.10      The Central Bank also established in 1978 two parallel schemes
designed to encourage commercial bank financing of export activities. The
Export Credit Insurance Scheme provides protection to exporters against
non-payment by overseas buyers and against other losses beyond the control of
the exporter. The insurance policy may then be used by the exporters as
collateral for discounting the export documents (post-shipment financing).
The parallel Export Finance Guarantee Scheme is designed to help exporters to
obtain pre-shipment financing from commercial banks. The mechanism has not
been widely used, and as of year-end 1978, the total amount of insurance
policies and guarantees extended was only BDS$3.97 million. In September
1979, the Central Bank also established a Small Business Credit Guarantee
Scheme to guarantee 80% of loans of up to BDS$25,000 to small business (for
up to one year) or 70% of loans of up to BDS$50,000 for more than one year.
The scheme would apply to small firms in practically all sectors of the economy
and would be combined with the provision of technical assistance from the
Barbados Institute of Management and Productivity (BIMAP).
3.11      Interest Rates.  After a long period of monetary stability and world
market-related rates, lending rates in Barbados became negative in real terms
during the high inflation period of the early 1970's and became positive again
in 1976 (para. 3.3). After 1977, credit controls established by the Central
Bank generated a situation of excess liquidity in the commercial banks that kept
the prime rate constant in spite of growing inflation and generally below the
8-1/2% ceiling imposed by the Central Bank (the ceiling on the average loan
rate was set at 10%). While some banks raised their prime rate from 7.5 to 8%
and others from 8 to 8.5% in 1978, the average lending rate remained at about
10%. Average inflation in Barbados during the three-year period 1977-1979 was
10.2% p.a., about one percentage point below the corresponding average for
the GDP deflator of OECD North countries (an indicator of world inflation).
Given the smallness of the country and the openness of its economy, inflation
in Barbados is likely to follow very closely world inflation rates. However,
recent increases in the Consumer Price Index after June 1979, which resulted
in an estimated average increase of 12.9% for 1979 (based on preliminary data)
are currently causing concern. As part of the proposed project, BDB has
increased its lending rate for industry and tourism to not less than 11% p.a.,
which is above the average for the most recent three-year period, and above
the lending rates charged to these two sectors by all other financial interme-
diaries in Barbados. This rate will be periodically revised to take into
account changes in the inflation rates and in the cost of resources to BDB.
The first review will take place not later than October 31, 1980 and will also
take into account the results of a study to be conducted by the government on
the country's interest rate structure (paras 4.27 and 5.03 (ii)). Deposit



- 12 -
rates have been typically negative in real terms, with no upward pressure by
commercial banks as a result of their ample liquidity and low reserve require-
ments (Annex 2, T-12). The minimum rate on savings deposits rose only (in
mid-1978) after the Central Bank directed that commercial banks should offer
no less than 3%. Time deposit rates were unchanged during 1978 and dropped
slightly in early 1979.
Trends and Prospects in Industrial Lending
3.12      Commercial bank lending to the industrial sector has been relatively
limited in the past, accounting for 10% or less of the total lending to the
private sector.  However, with the increasing expansion of the sector as a result
of rapidly growing exports during recent years, lending to industry has also
increased. In 1978, commercial bank lending to manufacturing grew at a rate of
nearly 24% per annum, and during the first half of 1979, the annual rate was
close to 80% (Annex 2, T-13) whereas total lending to the private sector
increased by only 8% and 20% p.a. during the same period. At the same time,
BDB lending to manufacturing nearly doubled in 1978 and is expected to double
again in 1979. While nearly all industrial subsectors have received increased
volumes of lending, the increase has been largest in food, beverages and
tobacco, building materials and metal products, and furniture and wood products.
3.13      The relatively liquid situation of commercial banks, and their
increasing attention to the manufacturing sector indicate that most firms will
be able to obtain the working capital resources needed to continue the expan-
sion of industrial exports and output started in 1978. However, medium- and
long-term resources to finance the establishment of new enterprises as well as
expansions of capacity by existing firms will continue to be in short supply
as the commercial banks will continue focussing on short-term lending. The
shortage of term financing for industrial firms is likely to be more acute
among small- and medium-scale enterprises, as result of the conservative prac-
tices of commercial banks. Thus, the potential impact of a rapidly expanding
industrial lending program by BDB, the only financial institution concentrating
on term financing for small- and medium-scale enterprises, will continue to
increase. One of the components of the proposed project would support the
government of Barbados in its efforts to strengthen BDB. Part of the proceeds
of the Bank loan would be used by the Government to provide BDB with additional
financial resources and technical assistance to build up its capabilities in
project -reparation and appraisal as well as in loan administration and super-
vision.
IV.  THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives and Content
4.01      Recognizing the importance of economic diversification and indus-
trial development, and the need to create adequate employment opportunities,
to attract foreign capital inflows and to generate foreign exchange, the
government prepared the Industrial Development Plan 1978-82, setting ambitious
targets for industrial investment, exports and employment growth (para. 2.12).
The manufactured exports target was largely exceeded during the first year of
the plan and it appears to have been exceeded again in 1979.  However, the
actual increases in employment appear to be below the targets and additional
efforts will be required.



- 13 -
4.02      The proposed project, that would constitute the Bank's first in-
volvement with the industrial sector in Barbados, was designed to help carry
out the programs included in the Industrial Development Plan during the fiscal
years 1980-82 and to establish a sound basis for continuing industrial devel-
opment and reducing the country's foreign exchange constraint in the 1980s.
Therefore, the project objectives are to expand industrial output and exports,
to generate increasing levels of employment and to strengthen the main insti-
tutions responsible for promoting industrial development in Barbados. The
major programs included in the Industrial Development Plan are (i) investment
promotion program and construction of industrial estates by BIDC; (ii) indus-
trial lending for fixed assets and permanent working capital to be provided
by BDB, (iii) promotion of manufactured exports, training and marketing assis-
tance to domestic exporters to be provided by the new EPC, and (iv) increased
availability of management and vocational training for industry to be provided
by BIMAP and the National Training Board (NTB). The proposed Bank loan would
complement government and other resources and would help finance the above
programs during the project implementation period, covering fiscal years
1980/81 to 1983/84 as shown in the following table:
Table 4.1: TOTAL PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
(BDS$ million)
Project Costs            Financing Plan
Total  Local  Foreign      WB     Govt.    CDB
1. Industrial Estates and
Promotion 1/             31.40  14.70   16.70    12.00   14.70    4.70
2.  Industrial Lending 1/        8.40   2.00    6.40       6.40    2.00      -
3. Manufactured Exports
Promotion                 2.00   1.40    0.60       0.60    1.40     -
4. Vocational and
Management Training       2.00   1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00      -
TOTAL PROJECT              43.80  19.10   24.70    20.00   19.10    4.70
(US$ equivalent)          (21.90) (9.55) (12.35)  (10.00)  (9.55)  (2.35)
1/   Including technical assistance.
The proposed loan would also have a major institution-building objective,
contributing to strengthen the financial basis and operating capabilities of
the implementing agencies, particularly BIDC and BDB, through technical
assistance and training programs for their key professional staff.



- 14 -
B.   The Industrial Estates and Investment Promotion Program
Oblectives
4.03      This program would aim at increasing the amount of direct foreign
investment in export oriented manufacturing activities in Barb,ados by increas-
ing overseas promotion and providing a growing volume of industrial estate
sites, standard factory shells and custom-built factory buildings for rental
and lease with option to purchase. In addition to the overall favorable
economic and social environment in Barbados, its literate labor force and the
favorable industrial policy framework that provides 'free zone' advantages to
eligible firms in the whole island, the stepped up promotional activities and
increased infrastructure and industrial construction availability will allow
Barbados to continue the very fast growth of industrial output and exports
started in 1978. The Program would be carried out by BIDC and would have a
total cost of about US$15.7 million, of which US$1.0 million would be for
the promotion component (including technical assistance). The construction
program would include construction of about 35 factory buildings in expansions
of three of the existing industrial estates and in a new estate to be devel-
oped in Speightstown.
Institutional Background
4.04      The Barbados Industrial Development Corporation (BIDC).  The BIDC is
a statutory body created by the government in 1965 with the purpose of '
stimulating, facilitating and undertaking the industrial development of the
island.' BIDC replaced a previous institution (the Barbados Development Board)
and continued the development of industrial estates that had started in 1957 as
one of the incentives aimed at attracting new, primarily export-oriented manu-
facturing industries. Since then, a total of nine industrial estates have been
developed and the size of the program and the public resources allocated to it
have placed Barbados in the category of countries that utilize estates as a
major tool for industrial development.
4.05      Organization and Staffing.  The Board of Directors comprises seven
members representing both the public and private sectors (Annex 2, T-14).
Five operating divisions and two overseas promotion offices report to the
General Manager and deal with industrial estate construction, local and
foreign investment promotion, financial planning and control, research and
planning, and handicraft development (Annex 2, C-1). In 1978, BIDC employed
324 people including 62 executive, technical and office staff, 150 laborers
engaged in construction and maintenance and 112 craftsmen employed in BIDC's
handicraft production shops adjacent to its central offices. BIDC functions
as an autonomous public sector corporation, although in a few specific areas
(clearly spelled out in the enabling Act) the approval of the Minister of
Industry or the Cabinet is required.
4.06      The Industrial Estate Division is headed by a Technical Officer
whose staff consists of 2 Deputy Technical Officers, 1 Project Manager, 3
site supervisors and 10 site foremen, and functions as an engineering design
and construction organization. It prepares preliminary plans of site layout,
utility networks and buildings with accompanying written specifications.
Detailed design is generally contracted out to private firms, but within the



- 15 -
limits of staff engineering and drafting time, some detailing can be done
in-house. The larger civil works subprojects are engineered by private consul-
tants (working from BIDC preliminary plans) who also prepare the tender documents
and supervise bidding. In such cases, BIDC can bid against outside civil works
contractors and the lowest evaluated bid is awarded the contract. It appears
that BTDC has been awarded about 50% of the contracts tendered in recent years.
4.07      Past Operations.  During the past 15 years BIDC developed nine estates
at dispersed locations (Annex 2, T-15 and Map). A total of 109 new industries
were established in the estates, 25 of which are "enclave" foreign-owned
industries exporting 100% of their output outside CARICOM. The balance are
locally owned firms (some with foreign capital) serving the domestic and
CARICOM regional markets and with incipient exports outside CARICOM. More
than 50% of estate-based industries are manufacturers of textile, clothing and
leather products, and electrical and electronic products. The balance includes
food, beverages and tobacco, furniture, various light mechanical, metal
working, building materials and other miscellaneous activities.
4.08      BIDC's industrial estate construction activities have been comple-
mented by an aggressive and well organized international promotion effort that
is now being considerably expanded and improved. BIDC's promotional efforts,
which have gained a level of sophistication beyond that of many of its compe-
titors, include the operation of an office in New York, staffed by 3 qualified
professionals, directing both the broader institutional activities and the
more focussed efforts involving face-to-face promotion of specific opportuni-
ties to decision-makers in selected U.S. firms. While most success has been
achieved in the traditional enclave industries (electronics and clothing),
project profiles have been recently prepared on a broad list of categories --
including medical and other scientific instruments, electric appliances,
leather and footware, and sporting goods among others -- and suitable firms
are being actively contacted.
4.09      Financial Performance.  The pricing policy for lease and rental
of buildings adopted by BIDC early in the development of industrial estates
included an element of subsidy. Leases were based on low rates, and were for
periods of 5 years without a provision for escalation. As a result, firms are
currently paying BD$1.50-3.00 per sq. ft. per year, which is about half of the
minimum rate required to yield a positive financial rate of return in real
terms, for buildings completed in the mid-1970's and considerably below the
rates charged at several other Caribbean locations. Lease with oDtion to
purchase agreements covering some 45% of the occupied space had similar
problems as the standard contract (for 10 years) allowed firms to exercise
this option at any time and determined the option price by adding only a flat
10% to the historic construc-ion cost, then allowing the total cumulative
rentals paid to be applied to the option price. As a result, there was a
strong incentive for the occupant to delay the purchase as long as possible
since t-e longer the period elapsed, the more attractive the price (and the
greater the real loss to BIDC).
4.10      Faced with recent increases in construction prices and stagnating
rental revenues, BIDC began to reassess its pricing policy early in 1979. The
preparatory work for the proposed project served to focus attention more
strongly on the urgent need to take appropriate action, and BIDC's management



- 16 -
prepared a new pricing policy document (approved by BIDC's Board on January 17,
1980) thus ending the temporary situation during which new occupants and
renewals of old leases operated on a month-to-month basis but still paying the
historically low rents. The new policy sets annual rents of 14% of construc-
tion costs for new occupants (7% for small scale firms) and gradual increases
on contract ienewals for previous occupants until they reach the new rents.
In the case of leases with option to purchase, the new procedure requires
annual rentals at a level between 10-15% above the straight rental level.
At the time of exercising the option, the value of the building should be
the fair market value as determined by independent appraisal or the cost of
replacement, and the market or replacement price should be discounted according
to an agreed formula. The new pricing policy, prepared with Bank assistance,
would allow BIDC to improve substantially its overall financial situation,
gradually reducing its reliance on annual government contributions for admin-
istration and promotion, and achieving financial self-sufficiency before the
end of the project implementation period, in FY 82/83.
4.11      Financing for BIDC operations in the past has been mainly provided
by the government. As of March 31, 1979, BIDC's total assets amounted to
US$11.0 million and liabilities were only US$0.38 million. Total net worth
of US$10.7 million included government contributions of US$10.3 million with
the difference corresponding to accumulated surplus. Government contribu-
tions include two CDB loans to the government for US$1.6 million (in 1972)
and US$3.9 million (currently being disbursed). While BIDC's audited financial
statements (Annex 2, T-16) indicate small operating losses in 1978 (US$11,000)
and a bigger deficit in 1979 (US$169,000), there are a number of unusual
features in BIDC's accounting practices. As Government budget contributions for
administration and promotion are listed under 'income,' the size of the
operating deficit appears to be smaller than it actually is, whereas operating
expenditures do not include any provision for depreciation of buildings. As a
result, with the present accounting practices BIDC's management does not receive
a complete presentation of the institution's financial performance. To achieve
an accurate reflection of BIDC's financial situation, agreement was reached
during negotiations to modify BIDC's bookkeeping and financial reporting before
March 31, 1981 to reflect (i) BIDC's net operating income prior to any govern-
ment contribution for administration and promotion; (ii) a provision for depre-
ciation of BIDC's buildings; and (iii) any other changes required by the new
system for lease with option to purchase.
Future Operations
4.12      The Industrial Development Plan 1978-82 established a goal of 5,000
additional manufacturing jobs (para. 2.12) 15% of which would be generated by
growth of existing firms and the balance of 4,250 jobs would be created in new
firms. With an average space/labor ratio of about 150 sq. ft./job, the amount
of factory construction required to accommodate the employment target during the
project period would be about 500,000 to 600,000 sq. ft. BIDC's current project
pipeline (as of September 1979) includes applications for factory space from
25 foreign and domestic firms totalling 264,000 sq. ft. About half of this
demand will be met in the first half of calendar 1980 by construction now
underway. The remaining applicants will be allocated space to be constructed
under the proposed project, the first units of which should be ready for
occupancy by late 1980. While a certain amount of attrition in the pipeline
is to be expected, the expansion of the domestic and international promotion



- 17 -
program, plus the growth of firms already established in Barbados should ensure
the achievement of the upper limits of the employment and investment targets.
4.13      The main new elements of BIDC's promotion program for the project
period would include expansion of its recently opened office in Brussels and
possibly opening a new office in Japan. An amount of US$600,000 equivalent of
the proceeds of the proposed loan would be allocated to cover part of the
marketing expenditures in the three offices, including promotional travel,
advertising, seminars, public relations and consulting services 1/. BIDC will
also strengthen its capabilities to promote local small- to medium-scale
industries. BIDC's Research and Planning Division has started to survey and
evaluate promising industrial subsectors as a first step in identifying
potential projects and specific entrepreneurs. The activities of the Invest-
ment Division, which acts as the back-up or headquarters support service group
for the overseas promotion offices would also be considerably expanded during
the project period.
Construction Program
4.14      The proposed program consists of the construction of 530,000 sq. ft.
of standard factory buildings, in various sizes and types according to market
demand, on about 30 acres of improved land complete with power, water and waste
disposal facilities.   Land development comprises the construction of an access
road to the site, levelling and compacting the site and the construction of
internal roads, storm drainage system and sidewalks, water supply and the main
electrical distribution network. BIDC and the civil works contractors of
Barbados are competent to plan, design and carry out the land development work
and no problems are foreseen in this phase of construction.
4.15      Four types of factory buildings will be constructed according to demand:
Individual Factories - for occupancy by firms requiring 16,000 to
30,000 sq. ft. each; the standard design is modular and initial build-
ing dimensions can be easily adjusted by varying the number of
modules; expansion is also straightforward, by simply adding
modules.
Multiple Unit Structures - outside shells similar to the "individual
factory" but with internal partitions and offices to accommodate
smaller firms requiring work areas ranging from 4,000 to 8,000 sq. ft.
1/   The cost of promotional activities conducted by BIDC's New York office
during the 30 month period ending on September 30, 1979 was as follows
(in US$):
Promotional Travel                   33,000
Advertising                         101,000
Direct mail/seminars                 83,000
Public relations and consultants   65,000
Total     232,000



- 18 -
Nursery Units - shell buildings subdivisible into individual shop
areas of 500 sq. ft. up to 5,000 sq. ft.
Special Purpose Factories - designed to meet special needs (within
certain limits) according to specifications of long-term occupant.
Engineering drawings and specifications are available for all building types
from past projects although design modifications are introduced as experience
accumulates. In multi-level buildings, the floor-to-ceiling clear height is
10-11 ft. whereas in single-level buildings, 18-23 ft. is the standard.
While this is more than ample for light assembly operations, it can also serve
industries that require head-room in excess of the 10-11 ft available in
multi-storey buildings. Construction generally will be of reinforced concrete,
although steel frame structures are also used. The factory shell includes
sanitary facilities and disposal of waste in septic tanks. Internal partitions
and the installation of the lighting and power system from the outside pole
transformer are for the account of the occupant. Car parking areas and land-
scaping associated with each factory plot are part of the estate investment.
Execution Schedule and Procurement Norms
4.16      Phased construction over the four year execution period is planned
as shown in Table 4.2. Tendering of civil works is expected to begin in the
second quarter of calendar 1980. Bid packages will cover the construction
of portions of the full program planned at each site. All tenders above an
estimated cost of US$1.0 million equivalent will require ICB procedures
consonant with Bank guidelines. While development of the new industrial
estate in Speightstown, with total cost of about US$6 million, is expected
to involve large contracts, most other contracts (for expansion of existing
estates on a factory-by-factory basis) are expected to be for amounts below
US$l million. For these contracts the procedure would include a prequalifica-
tion of contractors and evaluation of bids for specific contracts to be made
by independent consultants. The decision of BIDC's management based on the
consultant's recommendation would be subject to review and approval by the
Government's Tenders Committee. The decisions would be periodically reviewed
by the Bank.
4.17      Given the limited capacity of the larger domestic construction firms,
which have already generated construction price increases in late 1979, and
the large number of construction projects scheduled to start in Barbados in
1980, there are advantages in having BIDC's Industrial Estate Division
continuing to bid against private firms. If selected, however, the proposed
contract award will be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank for
contracts above an amount of US$350,000 1/. To ensure fair competition the
1/   During project implementation, further consideration will be given to
future alternative arrangements, including the legal separation of
BIDC's Industrial Estate Division and its establishment as a finan-
cially autonomous corporation.



- 19 -
consultants would ensure that the bids submitted by BIDC's Industrial Estate
Division included an adequate share of BIDC's overhead costs as well as the
imputed interest during construction and other possible sources of subsidy at
the appropriate cost. In this case, the consulting engineers will supervise
the work of the Industrial Estate Division and report to BIDC's management.
BIDC will also encourage the participation of smaller domestic contractors,
which until now have been unable to enter the bidding process, by preparing
small bid packages whenever suitable and by establishing less stringent
prequalification requirements. This would encourage the development of the
construction industry in Barbados, would help to reduce the strong pressures
on construction prices and would also allow a gradual reduction in the percent-
age of construction undertaken by BIDC.  During negotiations agreements were
reached on the scope of work of the consultants and on the preparation, by
September 30, 1980, of a plan to increase the participation of the smaller
contractors. A full-time professionally qualified Project Manager is expected
to be appointed by.BIDC during the second quarter of calendar 1980.
Table 4.2:  EXECUTION SCHEDULE OF INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROGRAM
1980/81     1981/82      1982/83      1983/84     Total
Development of Land
(acres)
Speightstown                    4            4            4           -         12
Grantley Adams                  3            3            4           -         10
Six Roads                       4            4            -           -          8
11          11            8           -         30
Factory Buildings
(sq. ft.) /1
Six Roads                  34,000       50,000      50,000            -   144,000
Grantly Adams              16,000       60,000      80,000            -   156,000
Newton                     30,000       30,000           -            -    60,000
Speightstown                   -        60,000      70,000       40,000   170,000
Total                      80,000      210,000     200,000       40,000   530,000
/1   Construction in Newton will be on available developed land (about
4.6 acres as of September 1979). Construction in Grantley Adams and
Speightstown will be on newly developed land and construction in Six
Roads will be partly on available and partly in newly developed land.
At the end of the project period, Speightstown, Grantley Adams and Six
Roads will have a total reserve of developed land of about 12 acres,
that could accommodate an additional 260,000 sq. ft. of factory space.



- 20 -
Technical Assistance and Training
4.18      The proposed project would also provide technical assistance and
training to BIDC's staff in several key areas related to industrial estates
development, including pricing policies, lease contract format, terms and
conditions, auantity surveying and site supervision. In addition, technical
assistance woadd also be provided to the Research and Planning Division on
industrial subsector studies, SSI project identification, and evaluation of
applications for fiscal incentives. A total of 57 man-months of foreign
consultants' services would be provided over a three-year period, including
a financial advisor (9 months), a civil engineer (24 months), and an
industrial economist (24 months) with a total estimated cost of about
BDS$684,000 and an average man-month cost of US$6,000. Training of key BIDC
staff at selected overseas locations (for periods of two weeks to 1-2 months)
would complement the on-the-job training provided by the consultants, at an
estimated cost of BDS$120,000. BIDC will prepare, by September 30, 1980 a
detailed staff training program for the FY 80/81 to FY 82/83 period.
Capital Costs and Financial Arrangements
4.19      The total capital cost of the proposed Industrial Estates and
Investment Promotion Program is summarized in Table 4.3 below.
Table 4.3: INDUSTRIAL ESTATES AND INVESTMENT PROMOTION
PROGRAM: CAPITAL COSTS
(BDS$ million)
1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    Total
A. Industrial Estates
Undeveloped Land            0.14        0.14        0.10         -        0.38
Land Development            0.60        0.60        0.44         -        1.64
Developed Land              0.74        0.74        0.54         -        2.02
Factory Buildings /1        2.70        7.10        6.75        1.35     17.90
Physical Contingency /2.   0.33         0.77        0.72        0.14      1.96
Base Line Cost              3.77        8.61        8.01        1.49     21.88
Price Escalation /3         0.57        2.49        3.55        0.91      7.52
Total /4                    4.34       11.10       11.56        2.40     29.40
B.   Overseas Promotion          0.40       0.40        0.40         -         1.20
C.   Technical Assistance
Foreign Consultants        0.20        0.24        0.24         -        0.68
Staff Training             0.04        0.04        0.04         -        0.12
Total                      0.24        0.28        0.28         -        0.80
Total A+B+C                4.98       11.78       12.24        2.40     31.40
Total US$ million          2.49        5.89        6.12        1.20     15.70
/1   Based on estimated construction costs of BDS$33.75 per sq. ft. in mid-1979.
/2   10% of land development and construction costs.
/3   Price escalation factors of 15% in 1980 and 12% thereafter.
/4   Includes sales taxes and import duties on off-the-shelf purchases for
about BDS$1.2 million.



- 21-
The estimates of land cost, development and construction are based on similar
construction currently underway and are considered to be reliable, whereas the
price escalation of 15% in 1980 and 12% p.a. thereafter reflect the shortages
faced by the construction industry in Barbados. The foreign exchange component
of the Program would be financed by an allocation of US$6 million equivalent
from the proposed Bank loan and a CDB loan of US$2.35 million equivalent. 1/
The Government would cover the local costs of the Program through capital
contributions of BDS$14.70 million (US$7.35 million) to BIDC.
4.20      Rental rates for the factory buildings would be set up considering
that: (i) they must be competitive with other industrial estates in the
Caribbean area; (ii) they should guarantee, at least, capital recovery to
help develop BIDC into a financially viable organization; and (iii) lower
rates would be charged to small scale industries 2/ through the use of cross-
subsidization. Accordingly, annual rental rates would be fixed at 14% of
construction cost for medium and large firms, 16% for lease with option to
purchase and 7% for small scale industries with gradual increases until they
would become equal to regular rentals in the tenth year of occupancy. All
rental contracts would be for three years with renewal options at an increased
rate equal to the compound inflation rate for the period up to a maximum of
40%. Operating costs would include administrative expenses estimated to grow
at 12% p.a. until 1985 and 10% p.a. thereafter (the portions charged to the
project are 10% of total BIDC administrative expenses in 1982, 20% in 1983,
25% in 1984, 20% in 1985 and 10% thereafter). Also, maintenance costs are
estimated to be 10% of annual gross revenues whereas depreciation charges of
4% on buildings and land development are also included. Under the above
assumptions, revenues from rentals and other leases would generate a positive
net income for the program starting in FY 83/84 (Table 4.4).
1/   This would be the third CDB loan to the government for financing of
industrial estates and it is scheduled for 1981. The second CDB loan
will be fully committed by June 1980 and disbursed by March 1981.
2/ Small scale industries (SSI) are defined by the Central Bank of Barbados
as those enterprises meeting any two of the following criteria: (i) total
capital of less than BDS$100,000; (ii) annual sales below BDS$500,000;
and (iii) less than 36 employees.



- 22 -
Table 4.4: INDUSTRIAL ESTATES PROGRAM. ESTIMATED REVENUE AND OPERATING COSTS
(BDS$ million)
FY 80/81   81/82   82/83   83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89
A)   Revenue
Factory Rental        -        0.47    1.87    3.66    3.86    4.42    5.15    5.37    6.01
Total Revenue      -        0.47    1.87    3.66    3.86    4.42    5.15    5.37    6.01
B)   Operating Costs
Administration         -       0.16    0.35    0.50    0.45    0.25    0.25    0.27    0.30
Maintenance            -       0.05    0.19    0.37    0.39    0.44    0.52    0.54    0.60
Depreciation           -       0.17    0.60    1.06    1.15    1.15    1.15    0.15    0.15
Int. and Com. Fee   0.33       0.91    1.49    1.50    1.37    1.26    1.15    1.04    0.92
Promotion              -       0.09    0.10    0.15    0.17    0.19    0.20    0.22    0.25
Total Cost        0.33      1.38    2.73    3.58    3.53    3.29    3.27    3.22    3.22
C)   Net Income    (.0.33)   (0.91)  (0.86)   0.08    0.33    1.13    1.88    2.15    2.79
4.21       Together with a substantial increase in rental and leasing rates on
BIDC's existing assets, the Program would assist BIDC in gradually achieving
financial self-sufficiency and would allow it to operate without annual
Government subsidies to cover operating losses. It is estimated that BIDC
would have a positive cash flow starting in 1982/83 (Annex 2, T-18) and a
positive net income from 1983/84. The Program's financial rates of return are
about 18% in current terms and 7% in real terms (Annex 2, T-19). These rates
guarantee the project's capital recovery in addition to a real return on equity,
and are consistent with the main objective of the program which is to attract
foreign firms and encourage industrial development rather than to maximize
profits.
4.22      The economic profitability of the Program is linked to the investments
and activities of the firms that will occupy the factory buildings. It is possible,
however, to calculate an economic return on the Program without making many assump-
tions about the firms themselves other than their decision to occupy Estate premises.
If promotional efforts are successful, firms will rent space and generate roughly
3,500 jobs. Deducting one-fifth of these jobs, which may represent simple reloca-
tions within Barbados, leaves 2,800 new work opportunities created by the foreign
firms. Since those firms are expected to import most material inputs and to export
most outputs, and will be tax-exempt for ten years, the economic benefits of their



- 23 -
activities will be the jobs that they provide. Assuming an average wage of
about US$200 per month (in 1980 prices), and shadow-pricing at half the market
value, the Program has an economic rate of return of over 31 percent with
respect to the investment in the Estates (computations are presented in Annex 2,
T-20).
C. The Industrial Lending Program
Objectives
4.23      This program would aim at supporting the development of medium and
small scale industry in Barbados by providing medium- and long-term financial
resources through BDB, and by helping BDB to strengthen its capabilities and
consolidate its increasing orientation towards the man-facturing sector.
BDB's industrial lending program would amount to about BDS$22.0 million during
the three-year implementation period of which 30% would be provided from the
proceeds of the proposed loan. The total cost of subprojects financed by the
program is estimated to exceed BDS$30.0 million, with an overall employment
generation of about 1,500 jobs, 1/ or more than one fourth of the employment
target in the 1978-82 Industrial Development Plan.
The Barbados Development Bank (BDB)
4.24      Background.  BDB was created as an autonomous Government-owned
institution in April 1969, with the main functions of providing medium-
and long-term financing for development enterprises, cooperatives and small
business that contribute to the country's economic growth. Before 1969
those functions were performed by the Barbados Development Board (now Barbados
Industrial Development Corporation) established in 1956. While BDB's loan
portfolio has grown from BDS$0.8 million in 1970 to about BDS$20.0 million
in 1979, its growth has been somewhat constrained in the past by high staff
turnover, limited interaction with the manufacturing sector, and some recent
uncertainties about the future legal status of the institution and its rela-
tionship with BNB (para 3.06). The proposed program would help BDB to
overcome these past difficulties, to aggressively expand its operations in
the manufacturing sector, and to undertake a bigger role in the country's
economic development.
4.25      Board of Directors, Organization and Staff.  BDB's Board of Directors
consists of only five members, including the Chairman (a private businessman)
and Deputy Chairman (an attorney-at-law), two public sector representatives
(the Permanent Secretary of Planning, Ministry of Finance and Planning, and
the General Manager of BIDC) and another private businessman. Contrary to
most other public statutory bodies (e.g., BIDC, EPC, NTB), BDB's Board does
not yet include ex-officio representatives of the manufacturers and other
business associations nor of the labor unions. This has been indicated as
one of the reasons accounting for BDB's limited involvement in the manufac-
turing sector until recently. As part of the proposed project, the Government
1/   Based on an estimated investment cost of US$10,000 per job.



- 24 -
intends to reorganize and expand BDB's Board, giving adequate representation
to local manufacturers. The Government also intends to increase BDB's autho-
rized capital to BDS$25 million and to transfer part of BDB's shares to BNB,
thus implementing the provisions of the National Banking Act (para 3.06) and
clarifying the relationship between the two institutions. During negotiations,
the Governmer. agreed to carry out the above changes by December 31, 1980.
4.26      BDB has four major divisions (Annex 2, C-2), dealing with project
identification and analysis, loan administration, accounting and economic
analysis and research. Currently, BDB has'a relatively small staff with a
total of 14 professional positions and 11 support staff members. In order
to carry out the ambitious lending program envisaged by the institution, it
would be necessary to establish an additional number of professional positions
(3-5) as well as to fill its currently vacant positions. The new professional
positions are particularly required in the areas of promotion (for which there
has been no specific provision until now), project analysis and loan adminis-
tration. Filling the new and existing positions with qualified staff might be
difficult if the relative deterioration of salary levels with respect to the
private sector or even other public agencies is allowed to continue. There-
fore, during negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government and
BDB on the preparation, by June 30, 1980, of a plan satisfactory to the Bank
to increase BDB's staff and to revise the salary scale, to be approved by
December 31, 1980. In addition, the two key positions of Financial Comptroller
and Manager of Operations would be filled with candidates satisfac-
tory to the Bank, as a condition of withdrawal under this component of the
proposed loan, and any changes affecting BDB's senior management positions
would be made in consultation with the Bank.
4.27      Policies and Procedures.  In the past, BDB did not have a compre-
hensive financial and lending policy statement which clearly spelled out its
strategy, financial goals and lending criteria. Specifically, BDB had a
multiple interest rate ranging from 8-10.5%, resulting in a low average
lending rate and a nominal return on equity of less than 1.5% in 1978. BDB
has recently adopted unified lending rates of not less than 11% for tourism
and industrial projects and 10% for small business and small manufacturing, to
be periodically revised taking into account current and projected inflation
rates and changes in the cost of resources for BDB. An evaluation fee of 1%
will also be charged and the commitment fee will be increased from 0.5% to 1%.
The increased lending rate for industry and tourism would be above the average
annual inflation rate in Barbados during the 1977-79 period (10.2%) and would
be the highest lending rate for the two sectors in the country's financial
system. While inflation in Barbados has traditionally been slightly below
world inflation and it is expected to continue following a similar trend
(para. 3.11), a recent acceleration in the Consumer Price Index after June
1979 is currently causing some concern. Therefore, the first revision of
BDB's lending rates will take place not later than October 31, 1980 and will
take into account the results of a study to be carried out by the government
(with Bank assistance) to determine any necessary adjustments in the structure
of interest rates in Barbados. At that time, agreement will be sought between
BDB and the Bank on the necessary changes in its lending rates, if any, and on
the date of the next review. During negotiations, agreement was reached with



- 25 -
the Government on the terms of reference of the interest rate study. Also,
in the past BDB has borne the foreign exchange risk of some foreign loans and
did not adopt any clear policy for protecting itself from the exchange risk.
BDB's management prepared a draft policy statement covering the above areas,
and the statement was approved by BDB's Board in February 1980.
4.28      Appraisal and Supervision.  BDB's appraisal reports are generally
satisfactory but could be substantially improved. The reports concentrate
on the financial and technical feasibility of the projects, management and
marketing aspects, the impact on the country's balance of payment, the employ-
ment generation contribution, use of domestic resources, and project linkages.
However, financial and economic rates of return are not being calculated in
those reports (only return on equity and return on total capital are being
calculated). Given the limited appraisal capabilities of the institution,
particularly in the context of a substantially expanded industrial lending
program, part of the technical assistance component of the program would be
specifically directed to improve appraisal techniques, both through the
provision of consulting services and training of analysts. Project super-
vision and loan administration are generally adequate, but are now limited
by staff availability. In order to maintain adequate supervision and admin-
istration, an additional loan administration officer would be recruited as
part of the proposed increase in BDB's staff (para. 4.26). Also, loan super-
vision could be improved by standardization of reporting, including the list
of problems faced by each subproject and the recomended action to be taken.
All aspects of project supervision will also be included in the technical
assistance to be provided as part of the proposed program.
Past Operations
4.29      In the past, BDB concentrated on lending to the tourism sector, with
small shares of lending to industry and small-scale firms (Annex 2, T-22). About
65% of cumulative disbursements from 1969 to 1979 were for tourism projects and
only 23% went to industry. However, during the last few years, BDB lending to
industry (including small scale industry) has been increasing constantly from
about 20% in 1977 to about 50% of total commitments in 1978 and again in 1979.
In addition, lending for small business traditionally accounting for about 4%
of BDB's lending is estimated to reach 8% of the total in 1979.
4.30      The quality of BDB's current portfolio is somewhat poor, mainly as a
result of a relatively small number of large loans in arrears. The total amount
of principal payments in arrears is 5.6% of the total portfolio. In addition,
interest in arrears (mostly from two firms under receivership) amounts to 3.5%
of portfolio. Five loans account for 55% of principal and 70% of interest in
arrears, and the total amount outstanding of the five loans accounts for 19% of
the loan portfolio. Although legal action has been taken against several
clients and receivers have been appointed for most firms with large amounts in
arrears, the portfolio still contains a substantial number of small loans of
doubtful recovery. BDB's management has been aware of the problem and relatively
high provisions for bad losses (amounting to about 5.25% of total portfolio)
have been made. In addition, as part of the proposed project, agreement was
reached with BDB on the preparation, by September 30, 1980, of a plan for
portfolio recuperation acceptable to the Bank (including exercising guarantees
and writing off bad,debts).



- 26 -
4.31      BDB is currently acting as a conduit and financial agent for the
Go4ernment in channelling resources from the National Insurance Board (as well
as from the CDB) into the Mortgage Finance Corporation (BMFC) and Barbados
Housing Corporation (BHC) to be used for mortgage lending. The operations are
guaranteed by the Government and BDB receives a fee of 0.25% of the amounts
channeled.  However, BDB's financial statements include the fu.- ds channelled as
part of BDB's assets and liabilities, thus distorting BDB's financial situation
and ratios. In addition, even though the actual amounts channelled and their
financial terms are outside BDB's control, BDB may be liable to some foreign
exchange risk, particularly in the case of funds received from CDB. Given
that BDB is acting only as the Government's financial agent in the handling
of these transactions, during negotiations the Government agreed to assume any
foreign exchange risk or risk of default related to the housing and any other
future funds channelled through BDB and agreement was also reached with BDB
on clearly separating such funds, as well as any future operations undertaken
by BDB on behalf of the Government, from BDB's assets and liabilities in
the financial statements.
4.32      Financial Position and Resources.  As of March 31, 1979, BDB had an
authorized capital of BDS$10.0 million and a paid-in capital of BDS$7.3 million.
Other domestically generated funds in the past have included bond issues in
1972 (BDS$1.0 million), 1976 (BDS$5.0 million), and 1979 (BDS$10.0 million).
In addition, BDB has borrowed on short-term basis BDS$4.6 million in 1978-79
from the Central Bank. BDB's foreign resources have included loans totalling
BDS$14.0 million from the Inter-American Development Bank, the European Invest-
ment Bank and the Caribbean Development Bank. BDB's assets and liabilities at
the end of the fiscal years 1977 and 1978 are summarized in Annex 2, T-21.
BDB's total assets increased from BDS$1.5 million in 1970 to BDS$22.2 million in
March 1979 and the increase during the fiscal year 1978 was 32%. BDB's assets
were financed by its equity (33%), long-term debt (45%), short-term borrowings
(21%) and other liabilities (1%). The institution's debt/equity ratio was a
low 2;1, leaving BDB with considerable borrowing capacity. While the current
structure of liabilities is too heavily biased towards short-term borrowings,
the main component of this item is a credit line from the Central Bank auto-
matically extended upon maturity. However, BDB intends to eliminate or reduce
utilization of the Central Bank credit line, replacing it by the new 10-year
bond issue (a BDS$10.0 million issue started in August 1979 and expected to be
fully subscribed by June 1980). During negotiations, agreement was reached
with BDB on limiting BDB's debt/equity ratio to a maximum of 5:1, and on
including such provision in BDB's statement of policy and procedures.
Future Operations and Prospects
4.33      BDB's lending program for the current fiscal year (ending in March
1980) includes more than 100 projects with total lending requirements of
about BDS$11.2 million, of which about 50% would be for industry (and small
scale enterprises), 40% for tourism and the balance for other projects.
Loan sizes would range from BDS$15,000 to BDS$1.2 million (the current
ceiling reflecting a maximum loan size of 15% of BDB's equity). Average
loan sizes are small, about BDS$200,000 for industry and tourism, and
about BDS$25,000 for small manufacturing and small business. The projected



- 27 -
lending program, expected equity contributions and internally generated funds
for a five year projection period (Table 4.5) indicate a resource gap of about
BDS$72.2 million. BDB intends to finance about 70% of the resource gap with
long-term foreign borrowings from four different sources, including a loan
from the European Investment Bank (signed in July 1979), BDS$6.4 million from
the proposed loan and a total of about BDS$27.0 million from loans from other
international lenders. The remaining 30% will be financed through two bond
issues, including the one started in August 1979.
TABLE 4.5: BARBADOS DEVELOPMENT BANK - PROJECTED RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS
(BDS$ million)
FY 1980   1981    1982    1983    1984
New Loan Commit.                11.2    13.8    17.0    20.9    25.4
Liquidity                        2.0     2.9      3.9     4.9      6.0
Total Requirements          13.2    16.7    20.9    25.8    31.4
Equity and Internally
generated funds               3.5      5.0      7.2     9.2    10.9
Resource Gap
(annual)                      9.7    11.7    13.7    16.6    20.4
(cumulative)                    9.7    21.4    35.1    51.7    72.2
4.34      Financial projections based on BDB's new financial policies, par-
ticularly with respect to lending rates, commitment fees and appraisal fees
(para. 4.27) and the above lending program and sources of finance (Annex. 2,
T-23 to T-26) indicate that in spite of a substantial increase in the average
cost of funds (from 3.5% in 1978 to 5.0% in FY83/84) BDB would be able to
obtain an increasing return on its equity, reaching 8.8% at the end of the
projection period. During the period, the debt/equity ratio would gradually
increase from the current 2:1 ratio to about 2.6:1 and the total portfolio
would reach BDS$73.6 million. The financial projections indicate that BDB's
financial spread would average about 5.3% of total assets. With administrative
and other expenses of close to 3%, BDB's net income as a percentage of total
assets is expected to be above 2%.
4.35      In addition to providing part of the necessary resources to carry
out BDB's industrial lending program, the proposed loan would include a
technical assistance component designed to strengthen BDB's capabilities in
project identification, appraisal and supervision. An amount of US$200,000
has been allocated for this component in order to finance: (i) a total of
about 30 man-months of foreign consultants services, including one consultant



- 28 -
for an estimated 18 month period to advise the top management of the institu-
tion on financial and operational matters and 12 man-months of short-term
consulting services on specific aspects of BDB's operations with an average
man-month cost of US$6,000; and (ii) training for BDB staff, particularly
project analysis and loan administration officers. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with BDB on the preparation, by September 30,1980, of a
detailed staff training program for the FY 80/81 to FY 82/83 period.
D. The Export Promotion Program
Objectives
4.36      This program would aim at supporting the expansion of Barbadian
manufactured exports, mainly from locally owned enterprises. The program
would provide a wide range of services to small and medium firms interested in
opening new markets, selling new export products and initiating or expanding
exports of manufactures. The target group currently constitutes a relatively
small but potentially important segment of the manufacturing sector with
substantial foreign exchange and employment generation capabilities. In-
creasing the export orientation of domestically owned firms is an important
objective in the country's industrial development, in order to diversify
industrial output and exports, complement the sectorally concentrated and
relatively isolated enclave industries, and encourage the development of local
managerial skills. Exports from enclave industries are expected to maintain
their major role as a source of employment and foreign exchange in Barbados
and to require assistance in terms of overseas investment promotion, pro-
vision of infrastructure and an adequate policy framework but no marketing
support (beyond policy-related issues such as negotiations of quotas with
importing countries). However, manufactured exports from locally owned firms
accounted already for 20% of manufactured exports (and about 14% of the
country's total exports) in 1978 and may be expected to increase substantially
as a result of the proposed Export Promotion Program, reaching annual growth
rates of 20-25% p.a. during the three-year project implementation period.
Institutional Background
4.37      Government supported export promotion is a new activity in Barbados.
Until the early 1970's, exports were dominated by sugar products marketed
within government negotiated arrangements. In 1972, 'non-sugar exports
exceeded for the first time the level of sugar exports and the Government
recognized the need to carry out export promotion activities.  A National
Advisory Committee on Export Promotion was established in 1974 with assistance
from the International Trade Centre (UNCTAD/GATT) and led to the setting up of
a small export promotion section within BIDC in 1975. In early 1977, this
section was transferred to the Ministry of Trade and Industry, where it con-
tinued to operate as a separate division under the title of Export Promotion



- 29 -
Agency (EPA). Under both arrangements little useful service was provided to
exporters, 1/ and overseas training of its own inexperienced staff was the
main activity of the up to five professional staff members. The Government
recognized that the limited results of the EPA were partly due to its
organizational set-up and, based on the recommendations of a consultant
provided by EEC, decided to set up an Export Promotion Corporation (EPC)
as an independent statutory organization under the Ministry of Trade and
Industry.
The Export Promotion Corporation
4.38      The Export Promotion Corporation Act was passed in July 1979 estab-
lishing the EPC as an independent statutory body under the Ministry of Trade
and Industry. A Board of Directors is responsible for general administration
of the EPC and will appoint the Director-General and his Deputy with the
approval of the Minister. In September 1979 the Minister appointed a nine-
member Board of Directors composed as follows: two businessmen as Chairman and
Deputy Chairman of the Board; the presidents of the Barbados Manufacturers
Association, the Small Business Association and the Chamber of Commerce; one
representative of the Workers' Union; the Governor of the Central Bank; the
Chief Economist of the Ministry of Trade and Industry; and the Director-General
of the EPC. The Director-General of the EPC has not yet been nominated, but
recruitment is currently underway. The EPC would attract suitable staff by
offering appropriate salaries and would have a more appropriate organizational
form for effective export promotion than its predecessors.
4.39      The detailed plan for establishing the EPC was based on a consult-
ant's report that provided for a sizable organization to be implemented in
stages over a three-year period at the end of which it would consist of three
fully staffed departments and three foreign offices employing a total of 29
professionals. Further work carried out during project preparation indicated
that this large and costly organization (with operating annual costs of over
BDS$1.0 million) was not yet fully justified by the size of the target group
within the exporting sector. Therefore, alternative arrangements were consid-
ered and it was proposed to establish an EPC that would maintain the legal and
organizational arrangements approved in July 1979 but including a substantial
reduction of size and functions of the EPC to about one-third of the original
proposal in the consultant's report.
4.40      Instead of providing a full range of export promotion services and
market surveys, the proposed EPC would concentrate on channelling technical
assistance, initiating the development of new products for exports and
employing agents to establish outlets in foreign markets. The most important
function of the EPC would lie in arranging and employing, in an organized
manner, foreign consultants to provide marketing training and management and
technical assistance to Barbadian small-scale manufacturers. This would be
1/   The agency's last report on its activites during the period 1977-78 lists
as actions: (i) an export marketing and management course for exporters
conducted by a consultant to the agency; (ii) an employment survey of
industrial establishments in Barbados; and (iii) market survey missions
to Brazil and Suriname.



30 -
done in cooperation with BIDC and would focus on export marketing techniques,
as well as on design and quality improvements in production and management.
EPC's staff function would be to prepare a well conceived package of
training and assistance to exporters, utilizing the existing and new offers
for assistance from international and bilateral agencies and consulting firms.
Very limited direct training activity would be required from the EPC in
addition to the planning and supervision activity which could be performed by
two officers supporting EPC's Operations Manager. The marketing effort in
target markets would also be performed by consultants and local agents rather
than permanent EPC staff or permanent overseas offices. Permanent overseas
representation would only be worthwhile if EPC officers could be placed at low
cost in BIDC's existing overseas offices, which would allow cooperation with
BIDC's investment promotion effort.
4.41      In addition to two possible officers overseas, six experienced
professional staff members (instead of the 20 originally considered) and
the corresponding support staff would be sufficient to operate a small
and efficient EPC. Excluding the Director-General who would be financed
during the first three years from the proceeds of the proposed loan, annual
operating costs would be reduced to approximately BDS$300,000 assuming
that most consulting services would be provided on a grant basis. Current
manufactured exports of the type to be supported by the establishment of the
proposed EPC (i.e., exports from locally owned firms plus a small volume of
manufactured exports from small-scale firms owned by foreigners that are not
affiliations of large international firms) amount to about BDS$50.O million
(in 1978). Therefore, the operating costs of the proposed EPC would represent
only about 0.60% of total exports potentially affected by the institution at
the starting period, decreasing afterwards as exports increase.
Technical Assistance to the EPC
4.42      Recruitment of highly qualified staff and management for the EPC
will be crucial if the institution is to operate successfully, particularly
during the critical period of build-up of its organization. While the Govern-
ment intends to advertise widely for the posts and expects to attract Barbadian
nationals living overseas, it would be highly unlikely to find a qualified
Barbadian candidate for the post of Director-General of the EPC with the
required experience in export promotion. Therefore, in order to support the
establishment of the EPC, the technical assistance to be provided out of the
proceeds of the proposed loan would include financing the foreign exchange
costs of hiring an expatriate Director-General for a three-year fixed-term
contract. At the same time, a Barbadian national would be recruited (after
advertising domestically and abroad) for the post of Deputy Director General.
In addition, a total of about 18 men-months of short-term consultancy services
would also be financed from the proceeds of the proposed loan.
4.43      The foreign exchange cost of the component is estimated at about
US$300,000 of which about US$200,000 would be used to finance the cost of the
EPC Director General. The EPC could also use part of the proceeds under this
component to finance the foreign exchange cost of undertaking a review of the



- 31 -
system of export incentives currently available to Barbadian manufacturers and
propose any necessary changes to the Government. During negotiations agreement
was reached with the Government on the recruitment, by September 30, 1980 of a
Director General of the EPC satisfactory to the Bank, and on the establishment
of an EPC of the size and scope outlined above by December 31, 1980.
E. The Vocational and Management Training Programs
Vocational Training
4.44      Background and Objectives.  As indicated above (para. 1.06) un-
employment in Barbados has been a grave problem, constituting a drain on the
country's resources and a social irritant. Young people have been parti-
cularly hard hit by unemployment and although no detailed data is currently
available, it appears that unemployment among young males in the 16-25 age
group is considerably higher than the 15% national average, thus posing a
serious social problem. At the same time, the country has suffered from
shortages in certain key skills (e.g., in the construction industry) and the
desired rapid growth of export oriented manufacturing may be curtailed by such
shortages. This is particularly important in a country of Barbados' size as
the total amount of people trained in each specific skill tends to be very
small and small disajustments between supply and demand for each type of skill
(in absolute numbers) may generate serious shortages in a given industry.
4.45      The vocational training program would aim at coordinating and
substantially expanding the training and supporting activities currently being
carried out by several institutions as well as by the firms themselves. In
addition to expanding the coverage of the direct training activities (by
increasing the number of trainees and the skill training areas), the program
would also include the elaboration of manpower surveys to determine and
quantify the types of skills needed, preparation of detailed unemployment
studies to identify the major target groups, improvements in the information
system to publicize employment opportunities and match vacancies and job-
seekers, and a revitalization of the apprenticeship system. The program,
originally prepared and coordinated by the Ministry of Labor would be carried
out by the National Training Board (NTB), an independent statutory body
recently established.
4.46      The National Training Board.  The NTB was established by the Occu-
pational Training Act of July 1979 to be responsible for the expansion,
promotion and coordination of all vocational training activities in the
island, and for the elaboration of plans to reduce unemployment. The NTB will
also be responsible for job classification, testing and certification. The
Board comprises 12 members including representatives of the employers organi-
zations and the trade unions, and three government officials (from the
Ministries of Education, Labor and Works). The Chairman and Deputy Chairman
of the Board are also appointed by the Ministry of Labor. The NTB is ex-
pected to start operations shortly, after all its members are appointed and
the technical staff is recruited.



- 32 -
4.47      The Skills Training Program.  In anticipation of the activities of
the NTB, and to face the serious unemployment situation, the Ministry of Labor
started in early 1979 a Skills Training Program to provide young unemployed
Barbadians with skills to enable them to take advantage of economic opportun-
ities. The program, while not designed to solve the youth unemployment
problem of B.-- .ados or to meet the training needs of existing industrial or
business establishments is expected to offer a modest contribution to both.
The program is decentralized and community-based, using light equipment and
reaching young people in or near the place where they may use the skill, and
providing training in a narrow, well defined and complete operation or series
of operations which are part of a trade but can be performed in isolation.
The training courses are short (3 months) and intensive (8 hours daily for
day-time courses and 3 hours daily for evening courses). The courses are also
flexible, adjusting to identified needs and possibilities and are planned to
be repeated at different locations on a rotational basis, in order to maxim-
ize the overall impact with limited manpower resources.
4.48      As of September 30, 1979, six courses had been completed on areas
including plumbing, masonry, mechanics and car maintenance, and carpentry, and
two additional courses will be completed during the last quarter of 1979. The
courses have been prepared and implemented by a staff of 6 full-time and 1
part-time professionals hired by the Ministry of Labor and with technical
assistance from the OAS that has provided the services of a vocational train-
ing specialist assigned to the Ministry for a period of 3 years. The overall
supervision of the Program corresponds to the Director of Training. A total
of 115 unemployed youths in the 16-25 age range registered in the six courses
and 74 of them completed them. While the emphasis of the courses was toward
self-employment, the majority of the trainees sought and found paid employment
in areas related to their acquired skills. The courses were conducted in 4
of the community centers that exist in most villages in the island, requiring
practically no overhead costs and taking the Program to the areas where the
population is.
4.49      Future Operations.  After the NTB starts to operate, an expanded Skills
Training Program would become one of the NTB's major activities. The Program
would expand to provide a larger number and variety of courses and to cover 8
community centers, with a rotational schedule. Thus, with a total portolio of
16 different courses and the continuous provision of two 3-month courses at
each location (with day and evening groups), each of the 8 community centers
would receive all courses over a 2-year period, with minimal staff and train-
ing material requirements.  The NTB would also start regulating and supervis-
ing the Apprenticeship Schemes established by the Occupational Training Act of
1979, would operate a Placement Service and would start compilation of employ-
ment data through its statistical services. Financing of the NTB activities
would include government allocations, proceeds from a training levy to be
established, and funds from international institutions. The OAS will continue
to provide the services of a vocational training specialist, attached to the
Ministry of Labor, during 1980 and 1981, whereas funds for training activities
in the construction industry are expected to be available from USAID (through
the CDB).



- 33 -
4.50      The proposed loan would support the government's vocational train-
ing program by providing technical assistance to the NTB in the areas of (i)
implementation of the Apprenticeship Schemes (including training of the
in-plant supervision for the apprentices), (ii) establishment of a Vacancy
Information and Placement Services; (iii.) improvement of the systems for
gathering and processing labor statistics, (iv) expansion of the Skills
Training Program; and (v) to establish a system of job classification, testing
and job certification. An amount of US$250,000 of the proposed Loan would be
tentatively allocated to the vocational training program to help finance the
foreign exchange costs of the technical assistance to the NTB, of equipment
and other facilities and of designing and operating the skill training courses
(Annex 2, T-26). The funds allocated would complement other available resources
and if additional funds are obtained from other international institutions,
they could be reallocated to other components of the proposed Project.
Management Training
4.51      Objectives.  The small size of the domestic manufacturing sector and
the well-established patterns of emigration in Barbados have been two important
elements of a vicious circle that generated cronical shortages of managerial
skills. During the period of rapid industrial growth, such shortages are
likely to result in bottlenecks that would limit the growth of domestic small
scale industries and could discourage the establishment of foreign firms
requiring locally recruited supervisors and managers. The need to expand
Barbados's pool of managerial skills has been often emphasized and the country's
private and public sectors have been cooperating for several years with
considerable success. BIMAP, the major institution in charge of developing
management training activities and of providing technical assistance to small
scale firms is now planning to consolidate and expand its activities in the
context of the proposed Project.
4.52      Institutional Background.  The Barbados Institute of Management and
Productivity (BIMAP) is a private, non-profit making corporation, established
in 1972 to provide management training and other professional services (con-
sulting, technical assistance to small scale enterprises) mainly to the
country's private sector. The membership includes a large number of manufact-
uring and other firms as well as BIDC and BDB. While BIMAP's chairman is the
chairman of BIDC and the executive trustee is also nominated by BIDC, BIMAP
operates as an autonomous institution, and half of the members of the board
are elected by the private sector. BIMAP has a staff of nine full-time
professionals, eight support staff members and several part-time professionals.
It currently operates two training programs (Training and Management Develop-
ment Program and in-plant Training Program) with a total of 650 participants in
1978. BIMAP also provides consultancy and research services and is carrying
out a Small Business Development Program with funding from CIDA. A component
in the Bank's recently approved Education Project Loan will contribute to
strengthen BIMAP's training program.
4.53      Financing for BIMAP operations is provided by subscription fees from
the member firms, a matching-type grant from the government and income gener-
ated by the training and consulting programs (the Small Business Development
Program is fully financed by the CIDA grant). Since it started operations in
1972, BIMAP has been growing rapidly and the main constraints faced have been
the scarcity of qualified staff and the need to consolidate the institution



- 34 -
without straining its human resources. Availability of financial resources
has not been a serious limitation in the past but is now becoming important,
particularly in determining BIMAP's ability to undertake new and innovative
activites that may require some initial investments until the time is reached
when they can become self-sufficient.
4.54      Future Operations.  Plans for future expansion of Bi1iAP's activities
include providing management training services to other countries in the
Caribbean region (particularly the LDCs) and starting some new pilot courses
in Barbados. BIMAP also plans to establish a Technical Advisory Unit to
provide extention services to local companies with the object of (i) promoting
the utilization of the country's natural resources; (ii) improving the techni-
cal processes and methods used in industrial firms; (iii) disseminating techni-
cal literature and information to industry; and (iv) providing technical
consultancy (i.e., design of products or production methods, value analysis,
planned layout, machinery and equipment selection, field advisory service).
The Unit would start by concentrating on a limited number of industrial sub-
sectors of particular interest to Barbados, particularly textiles and garments,
woodwork and furniture, construction and construction materials industries, and
handicrafts. Finally, BIMAP has already started to develop training materials
that relate to and are appropriate for the business environment in Barbados and
the Caribbean region, to be used in its management training courses. During
the next two years, BIMAP is planning to develop and publish training manuals
and related materials in the areas of general and financial management, market-
ing, personnel and industrial relations, management of human resources, pro-
duction management and taxation. A component of the proposed project would
support the development of teaching materials by providing technical assistance
to BIMAP. An amount of up to US$250,000 would be used by the government to
finance the foreign exchange cost of such technical assistance and other expenses
related to the development of training materials.
F. Overall Project Costs and Financing Plan
4.55      The total financial resources required to carry out Barbados'
industrial development and export promotion program including the four com-
ponents above (Industrial Estates and Promotion, Industrial Lending, Export
Promotion and Training) will amount to about BDS$44 million (US$22 million
equivalent) (Table 4.6). This estimate does not include an amount of about
BDS$16.0 million of additional industrial lending by BDB during the project
period to be financed through domestic bond issues and other foreign borrowings
(from EIB, IDB and KfW), nor the contributions by the sponsors to individual
industrial subprojects. Table 4.5 shows the proposed allocation of project
financing among the four programs and among the various sources of financing.
To help finance the project, the government requested a Bank loan of US$10
million which would be committed over a period of 3 years and disbursed in
four years. Additional financing for the industrial estate component would
be provided by CDB through a US$2.35 million loan, the proceeds of which
would be used to finance part of the construction of the Speightstown estate.
During negotiations, the government agreed to provide the local counterpart
resources to complement the Bank and CDB loans from fiscal resources. Counter-
part resources for the Industrial Estates and Promotion component would be
provided as Government capital contributions to BIDC, and counterpart resources
for the Industrial Lending conponent would be provided as equity increases to
BDB.



- 35 -
Table 4.6: BARBADOS: TOTAL PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
(BDS$ million)
Project Costs                 Financing Plan
Total    Local    Foreign       WB      Gov't     CDB
I. Industrial Estates
and Promotion
Construction                29.40    14.70    14.70        10.00    14.70    4.70
Overseas Promotion           1.20       -        1.20       1.20       -        -
Technical Assistance         0.80       -       0.80        0.80       -        -
Subtotal                 31.40    14.70    16.70        12.00    14.70    4.70
II. Industrial Lending
Lending                      8.00      2.00     6.00        6.00      2.00      -
Technical Assistance         0.40       -       0.40        0.40       -        -
Subtotal                  8.40     2.00      6.40        6.40      2.00     -
III. Manufactured Exports            2.00     1.40      0.60        0.60      1.40     -
Promotion
IV. Vocational and
Management Training
Vocational Training          1.00      0.50     0.50        0.50      0.50      -
Management Training          1.00      0.50     0.50        0.50      0.50      -
Subtotal                  2.00     1.00      1.00        1.00      1.00     -
TOTAL PROJECT           43.80    19.10    24.70         20.00    19.10    4.70
(US$ equivalent)       (21.90)   (9.55)  (12.35)    (10.00)   (9.55)  (2.35)



- 36 -
V. THE BANK LOAN
Borrower and Terms
5.01      Th_ ;roposed Bank Loan of US$10 million would be to the Government
of Barbados and the Ministry of Finance and Planning would act as the Govern-
ment's agent. The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk and would
pass on the proceeds of the loan to the implementing agencies to carry out the
project components. The loan would be used to finance the construction of
about 35 factory buildings in three existing industrial estates and in a new
estate to be developed by BIDC, part of the industrial promotion activities
related to the estates, about 30 subloans from BDB, export promotion and
training activities and a program of technical assistance to the main insti-
tutions responsible for implementing the government's Industrial Development
Plan 1978-82. The lan would finance about 80% of the foreign exchange
component of the project, and 45% of the total project costs. The terminal
date for submission of requests for subproject financing would be March 31,
1983 and the closing date would be March 31, 1984.
Channelling of Bank Funds
5.02      A special Project Account would be established at the Ministry of
Finance and Planning to record the channelling of all Project resources,
including disbursements to the individual participating agencies for qualify-
ing subprojects and expenditures, and any debt service payments received from
them. Separate Project Accounts would also be established by BIDC and BDB.
The Government will on-lend to BIDC and BDB the portions of the Bank loan
channelled under the industrial estates and industrial lending components of
the project. On-lending terms to BIDC will be 15 years including three years'
grace at 10% p.a. The on-lending terms to BDB will be similar to the terms
of the Bank loan to the Government. The signing of subsidiary loan agreements
between the government and BIDC and between the government and BDB, satisfactory
to the Bank, would be a condition for disbursement of the BIDC and BDB compo-
nents of the proposed loan.
Loan Components and Terms to Final Users
5.03      The Bank loan would initially be allocated among four components as
follows: US$6.0 million to BIDC to support the Industrial Estates (US$5 million),
Investment Promotion (US$0.6 million) and Technical Assistance (US$0.4 million)
Programs; US$3.2 million to BDB to support the Industrial Lending Program
(including US$0.2 million for technical assistance to BDB); US$300,000 to
support the establishment and operations of the Export Promotion Corporation;
and US$500,000 to support management and vocational training activities by
BIMAP and NTB. The initial allocations would be reviewed as necessary during
the commitment period and changed as may be agreed from time to time between
the Government and the Bank. Rental and leasing of factory buildings under
the Industrial Estates Program of BIDC and subloans under BDB's Industrial
Lending Program would be made in accordance with the operating regulations of
the respective implementing agencies, and in addition, the following specific
terms and conditions would apply:



- 37 -
(i) Industrial Estates Program - Based on current estimates of
construction costs, and the methodology outlined in para 4.20
above, annual rental rates for factory buildings to be completed
prior to December 31, 1981 would be BDS$6.5 per sq. ft. per
year for medium and large scale firms and BDS$3.5 per sq. ft.
per year for small scale firms. Lease contracts would be for a
duration of three years renewable with a provision for price
adjustment at the time of renewal. Rental rates for buildings
completed in the following years would be set up at a level
that would take into account the average construction costs and
the methodology outlined in para. 4.20 above. Expected construc-
tion costs will be periodically reviewed by BIDC and the Bank,
at least once a year, and the first review will take place not
later than October 31, 1980. Lease with option to purchase
contracts would be for a duration of five years with a provision
for adjustment of the monthly rate after the third year, and
the option price would reflect the building's market value,
and an appropriate discount.
(ii)  Industrial Lending Program.  Subloans to be granted by BDB with
resources from the Bank loan would be for a period of up to 15
years after the date of signing of the Bank loan, including up
to three years of grace, at not less than 11% p.a. plus a flat
service fee of 1% and a commitment fee of 1% on undisbursed
amounts. BDB lending rates would be periodically reviewed
by BDB and the Bank following the methodology outlined in
para. 4.27 above. The first review would take place not later
than October 31, 1980 . Actual subloan terms are expected to
range from 6 to 14 years, averaging about 10 years (including
the grace period). Actual grace periods would range from 6
months to 3 years with an average of about 2 years.
Free Limits
5.04      The Bank's role in the review and approval of construction contracts
under BIDC's Industrial Estate Program and of subloans under BDB's Industrial
Lending Program would vary to reflect the different size of the individual
subprojects, the possibility of conflict of interests and the capabilities of
the institutions in appraisal and implementation of subprojects. Free limits
would be established as follows:
(i) All construction contracts under BIDC's Industrial Estate
Program involving Bank financing would be subject to prior
review and approval by the government's Tenders Committee.
(ii) In those cases where the contract was awarded to the Industrial
Estate Division of BIDC, contracts exceeding an amount of
US$350,000 would also be subject to prior review and approval
by the Bank.



- 38 -
(iii) BDB subloans involving Bank financing and exceeding US$150,000
would be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank.
This would ensure Bank review of a reasonable portion of sub-
projects (about one third of the total number and two thirds
of the total amount) and would provide the opportunity for
a continuing dialogue concerning appraisal techniques. An
economic rate of return would be calculated on all subprojects
above the free limit.
(iv) Notwithstanding the above free limits, the first three construc-
tion contracts awarded under BIDC's Industrial Estate Program
and the first five BDB subloans involving Bank financing would
be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank.
Procurement, Disbursement and Auditing
5.05      Procurement under the Industrial Estate Program would follow the
procedures described in paras. 4.16 and 4.17 above, including ICB for contracts
above US$1.0 million. Procurement for BDB subloans would be in line with
standard practice for DFC-type projects under which BDB would satisfy itself
that the goods and services to be purchased are suitable to the investment
projects and are reasonably priced. For the technical assistance and training
components, the selection of consultants and their terms of reference would be
subject to prior review and approval by the Bank.
5.06      In view of the relatively small size and large use of off-the shelf
purchases of imported goods in the individual subprojects to be financed under
the Industrial Estates and Industrial Lending Program, it would be very cumber-
some to attempt to determine every time the foreign exchange content of each
individual subproject. Based on actual construction cost data from BIDC, it is
estimated that the direct and indirect foreign exchange requirements of the
Industrial Estates component are 50% of the total construction cost. The foreign
exchange component of the industrial subprojects financed by BDB is estimated to
range between 65 - 75%, with an average of 70%. Therefore, disbursement of the
Bank loan would be made for 50% of disbursements made by BIDC under the Industrial
Estates Program, 100% of disbursements made by BDB for industrial subloans
but not exceeding 70% of the total cost of each subproject 1/ and 100% of
foreign expenditures for export promotion, technical assistance and training.
Disbursement for the Industrial Estates and Investment Promotion Programs, and
for industrial subloans from BDB would be made against standard documentation
and disbursement for technical assistance and training expenditures would be
made against fully documented foreign exchange expenditures. The implementing
agencies would make satisfactory arrangements for a full audit of their
accounts by reputable auditors, following accounting principles acceptable to
the Bank. 2/
1/ In practice, the actual percentage of BDB financing may be less than the
70% maximum, particularly in the case of new firms or of large expansions
of existing firms, as careful consideration will be given to the financial
position and debt service capacity of the subborrower.
2/   The three implementing agencies currently in operation, BIDC, BDB, and BIMAP
are already subject to external audits requirements.



- 39 -
Repayment Terms of Bank Loan
5.07      A fixed amortization schedule with a maturity of 15 years including
three years of grace would be used for the repayment of the proposed loan.
This would avoid the complications associated with using separate amortization
schedules for the different components of the project (fixed amortization for
the BIDC, EPC and training components and composite amortization for the BDB
component). Projected cash flows for BIDC and BDB (Annex 2, T-17 and T-26)
show that both institutions would have adequate liquidity to meet the debt
service payments to the government corresponding to their use of Bank funds.
BDB would also be able to meet its repayments to other lenders.
Project Benefits and Risks
5.08      The proposed loan would support the implementation of the main
programs included in the Barbados Industrial Development Plan and would help
achieve its targets by financing industrial promotion, construction of factory
buildings, equipment and other fixed assets, permanent working capital, export
promotion and training. The two largest components of the project, carried
out by BIDC and BDB, would contribute to increase foreign industrial investment
in Barbados and to encourage further development of domestically owned small-
and medium-scale industrial firms. In addition to high employment generation
capabilities and low investment cost per job, the foreign-owned light assembly
industries and the Barbadian small and medium industrial firms have a strong
export orientation, the former to third markets and the latter to CARICOM but
increasingly also to third markets. The project would also achieve major
institution-building objectives through the provision of technical assistance
to the main institutions carrying out the Industrial Plan. The project would
help three existing institutions (BIDC, BDB and BIMAP) to expand their activi-
ties and to improve their operations and financial performance, and would
support the establishment of two new institutions that would contribute to
further Barbados' industrial development (EPC and NTB). In particular, BIDC's
new pricing policy, prepared with Bank assistance would allow BIDC to charge
economic rents for its factory buildings and to achieve financial self-
sufficiency by FY82/83, whereas the increase in BDB's lending rates and the
mechanism for periodical reviews would help to achieve and maintain positive
rates in real terms and higher rates of return on BDB's equity.
5.09      While the project would not be subject to any extraordinary risk,
BIDC's new policy on rental rates, and the adoption of economic rents, may
encourage some industrial firms (particularly locally-owned firms) to build
their own factories, within or outside BIDC's industrial estates, instead of
renting the buildings from BIDC as has been common practice in the past as a
result of the heavily subsidized rents. The result would then be a decrease
in demand under the Industrial Estates Program with a corresponding increase
in demand under the Industrial Lending Program in order to finance the con-
struction of the factories by the firms. Should this be the case, a review
and change in the allocation of the proceeds of the proposed loan among its
components would adequately face the new demand pattern. Also, the very large
increase in BDB's lending program and industrial portfolio is likely to exert
very strong pressures on the institution's capabilities. The planned increase
in staff and the technical assistance program included under the proposed loan
would help BDB to meet satisfactorily the increased requirements.



- 40 -
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements
6.01      Du.ing the loan negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
(a)   with the government on
(i)   the provision of the necessary counterpart funds to
complement the resources from the Bank loan and other
sources in carrying out the project, and their distrib-
ution among the various components (para. 4.55);
(ii)   assuming the foreign exchange risk between the currencies
of iisbursement and BDS$ (para. 5.01);
(iii)   establishing a separate loan account and record all
channeling of resources to the implementing agencies
(para. 5.02);
(iv)   the allocation and channeling of the proceeds of the
Bank loan to the various project components (para. 5.03)
and the on-lending terms to BIDC and BDB (para. 5.02);
(v)   the terms of reference of the study to review the structure
of interest rates in Barbados, and to determine the appro-
priate policy measures to be adopted (paras. 3.11 and 4.27);
(vi)   carrying out, not later than December 31, 1980, its plan
to restructure BDB's Board increasing the participation of
the manufacturing sector and increase BDB's authorized
capital (para. 4.25);
(vii)   approving, December 31, 1980, a plan and timetable for
increasing BDB's staff and revise its salary scale
(para. 4.26);
(viii)   assuming any foreign exchange risk and risk of default
relating to housing funds or any other future funds channeled
through BDB (para. 4.31);
(ix)   the use of Bank funds by the EPC, the recruitment of a
qualified Director General of the EPC satisfactory to the
Bank by September 30, 1980, and the organization and staffing
of the EPC by December 31, 1980 (paras. 4.42 and 4.43);
(x)   the use of Bank funds by the NTB and the Skills Training
Program (para. 4.50) and by BIMAP (para. 4.54);



- 41 -
(b)   with BIDC on
(i)   rental rates, terms for lease with option to purchase
and other conditions to be applied to factory buildings
completed prior to December 31, 1981 and formulas for
adjustment thereafter (paras. 4.10, 4.20 and 5.03);
(ii)   adopting, by March 31, 1981, a revised accounting system
(para. 4.11);
(iii)   preparation by September 30, 1980, of a plan satisfactory
to the Bank to encourage the participation of smaller
domestic contractors in industrial estate construction,
and on the scope of work of the consulting engineers
(para. 4.17);
(iv)   the procedures for procurement, approval of construction
contracts and free limits (paras. 4.16, 4.17, 5.04 and
5.05);
(v)   preparation, by September 30, 1980, of a staff training
program satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.18), the use of
Bank funds for technical assistance (para. 4.18) and for
promotion (para. 4.13).
(c)   with BDB on
(i)   preparation, by June 30, 1980, of a plan and timetable for
increasing BDB staff and revise its salary scale, and on
exchanging views with the Bank on any changes affecting
BDB's senior management (para. 4.26);
(ii)   preparation, by September 30, 1980, of a plan satisfactory
to the Bank for portfolio recuperation, including exercising
guarantees and writing off bad debts (para. 4.30);
(iii)   BDB's statement of Policies and Procedures (para. 4.27)
including a maximum debt/equity ratio of 5:1 (para. 4.32),
the procedure for reviewing lending rates (para. 4.27)
and the on-lending terms for subloans (para. 5.03);
(iv)   the separation of housing funds, and of any other operations
undertaken on behalf of the government, from BDB's assets
and liabilities in the financial statements (para. 4.31);
(v)   preparation, by September 30, 1980, of a staff training
program satisfactory to the Bank and the use of Bank funds
for technical assistance (para. 4.35);
(vi)   free limits and calculation of economic rate of return
(para. 5.04).



- 42 -
6.02      The signing of a subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, between the Government and BIDC (para. 5.02), would be a condition for
disbursement of the BIDC component of the proposed loan.
6.03      The following would be conditions for disbursement of the BDB
component of the proposed loan:
(a)   The signing of a subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to
the Bank between the government and BDB (para. 5.02);
(b)   Filling of the key positions currently vacant with qualified
staff acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.26).
Recommendation
6.04      With the above agreements, the proposed project would constitute a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$10 million to the Government of Barbados,
on the terms and conditions listed in Chapter V.



- 43 -                          ANNEX 1
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the Proposed Loan
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter         Cumulative Disbursements at end of Quarter
(US$ thousands)
FY 1981
September 30, 1980                                    500
December 31, 1980                                   1,000
March 31, 1981                                      1,500
June 30, 1981                                       2,000
FY 1982
September 30, 1981                                  2,800
December 31, 1981                                   3,500
March 31, 1982                                      4,500
June 30, 1982                                      5,800
FY 1983
September 30, 1982                                 6,500
December 31, 1982                                   7,400
March 31, 1983                                      8,200
June 30, 1983                                       8,900
FY 1984
September 30, 1983                                 9,500
December 31, 1983                                   9,800
March 31, 1984                                     10,000
LCPIl



- 44 -                             ANNEX 2
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Supporting Tables and Charts
Tables
T -  1    Gross Domestic Product by Major Sectors of Origin
T -  2    Index of Industrial Production,
T -  3    Employment in Manufacturing, 1972-78
T -  4    Value added in Manufacturing, 1975
T -  5    Exports by Major Product Category
T -  6    Exports of Manufactures 1970-78                                                       a
T -  7    Sales and Exports of Manufactured Products in 1977
T -  8    Direction of Exports
T -  9    Demand and Time Deposits, 1972-79
T - 10    Distribution of Commercial Bank lending to the Private Sector
T - 11    Central Bank Rediscount Rates
T - 12    Commercial Banks Selected Interest Rates
T - 13    Commercial Bank Lending to Manufacturing, 1975-79
T - 14    BIDC list of Board Members
T - 15    BIDC Industrial Estates
T - 16    BIDC Financial Statements, 1977-79
T - 17    BIDC Projected Balance Sheet, 1979-84
T - 18    BIDC Projected Income Statement and Cash Flow
T - 19    Industrial Estates Program:  Financial Rates of Return
T - 20    Industrial Estates Program:  Economic Rate of Return
T - 21    BDB Audited Financial Statements 1976-79
T - 22    BDB Cumulative Disbursements 1969-79
T - 23    BDB Main Assumptions in Financial Projections
T - 24    BDB Projected Balance Sheet
T - 25    BDB Projected Income Statement and Financial Ratios
T - 26    BDB Projected Cash Flow
T - 27    Vocational Training Program, Technical Assistance and Equipment
Charts
C - I     BIDC Organization Chart
C - 2     BDB Organization Chart
211~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 2
T-1
- 45 -
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Gross Domestic Product by Major Sectors of Origin
Shares
Sector           1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1974     1976      1978
lXnufacturing         62.6       71.9       78.4       86.9       105.9       9.5      10.3     11.3
SugarAgriculture      46.8       66.9       47.3       54.7        51.7       7.3       6.2      5.5
Tourism                64.1       64.8       66.4       87.7      108.7      10.0       8.8     11.6
Other                 466.9      497.0      565.5      618.8      670.9      73.2      74.7     71.6
CDP (at Factor Cost)   640.4    700.6       757.6      848.1      937.2     100.0     100.0    100.0
Source:  Statistical Services.  Data for 1976, 1977 and 1978 are indicated as preliminary.
LCPI1



BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Index of Industrial Production (1971 = 100)
,1 Qtarter  1 quarter
Industry                1972         1973        1974         197S         1976        1977         1978        1978        1979
Food  Products              108.6        112.6       110.8       132.0        149.7       152.0        160.4       165.7      174.5
Beverages, Tobacco          114.9        119.8        97.7       110.3        109.0       124.4        139.4       122.3      111.3         0
Apparel                     113.2        122.6       122.1       128.2        158.6       169.0        159.7       145.5     156.8
Chemicals                   110.6        121.2       110.0       119.5       134.9        109.8        119.0       121.5     113.4
Petroleum Products          105.1        121.2       107.2       116.3       114.9        115.5        118.8       118.0     128.2
oWon-metal.,I4neral Products  91.1        93.6        88.8        80.4        77.2         76.7         81.2        90.3      87.3
Other                       110.9        117.7       116.1       129.2        174.4       165.4        159.4       158.0     162.1
Total                   110.9       117.7        112.2       121.9       143.7        145.t        147.7      143.1      145.3
Source:   Statistical Services
LCPIl
a  .                                        ,       ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!



BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Employment in Manufacturing 1972-1978
-nd  End 21   ~d~/                   Change          Change
End 1/    End g      Mid       Y Ed U      End          Mid>         End 1977 -      Kid 1978-
Industry'                 1972     1974        1976      1977         1977        1978          Erd 1972        Eid 1976
Food Products                1,249    1,260       1,360     1,544        1,498        1,473             249           113
Beverages, Tobacco             826      755         831       845          793         878         ( -  33)            47
Apparel, Textiles            2,266    2,442       2,705     3,065        3,182       3,469             916            764
Furniture                      452      358         547       599          500          591             48             44
Printing                       535      511         445       476          545         520               10            75
Chemical, Oil Refining         392      372         2p1       340          455          365             63             74
Non-metallic YineralProduots 438        311         488       479          464          504              26            16
Metal Products                 539      425         307       325          339         311         ( - 200)             4
Machinery, Equipment           995      902         744       965        1,300       1,474             305            730
Other Manufacturing            724      422         808       873          346         981         ( - 378)           173
Total ",anufaoturing    8,416    7,758       8,526      9,511       9,422       10,566           1,006          2,040
Total ,':6nufacturing /(12,300)1/                                 (14,800)
Total 13nployment 1/   (82,300)4/                                 (90,200)
1  Annual Survey of Manufacturing Enterprises
,/  Employ:nent Survey,  Export Promotion Agency, 1978
2' Population Census 1970, Labor Survey 1977
/ For year 1970                                                                                                                            E'I
Sources:  Statistical Services:  Survey of Manufacturing Establishmen1s  1972, 1974, 1977
Export Promotion Agency:  Patterms of Employment in the Manufacturing Sector 1976 - 1978, November 1978
LCPIl



BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Value Added in Manufacturing 1975 (BDS$ million)
Value Added/
Employment       Value Added/
Industry                              Sales     Value Added       Employment      (BDS$'000)           Sales %
Food Products                          56.5          7.1            1,306            5,400               12.6
Beverages, Tobacco                     36.7         12.3              744           16,500               33.5
Apparel, Textiles                      29.3          8.4            2,936            2,900               28.7
Furniture                               4.9          1.6              321            5,000               32.7
Printing                               10.2          4.7              515            9,100               46.1
Chemicals, Oil Refining                59.2          4.9              392           12,500                8.3
Non-met., Mineral Products              5.9          1.5              283            5,300               25.4
Metal Products                         12.9          7.7              449           17,100               59.7
Machinery, Equipment                   12.2          7.0            1,018            6,900               57.4
Other Manufacturing                     3.5          1.2              303            4,000               34.3
Total Manufacturing                 231.2         56.4            8,267            6,800               24.4
(excl. Chemicals, Oil              (172.0)      (51.5)          (7,875)           (6,500)             (30.0)
Ref.)
Source:  Statistical Services - Survey of Industrial Establishments 1975
LCPI1



BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
(BDS$ million)
Exports by Major Product Category
Product          1970    1971           1972     1973        1974         1975        1976        1t77        1978
Sugirt Molasses   34.5      30.0        30.4      36.5        62.6       106.9         56.3        53.8        53.8
Nazufactures      25.6      22.8        32.1      45.8        59.4        67.5        78.8         92.1       131.1
Other              2.0       0.4         0.6       t.4         3.6         3.8          2.5         1.2          1.6
Total Domnestio
Exports   62.1       53.2        63.1      83.7       125.6       178.2        137.6       147.1       186.5
Reexports         17.0      27.1        21.4      20.2        49.4         39.7        34.9        41.9        74.7              qz
Total Domestio
and Reexports   79.1       80.3        84.5     103.9       175.0       217.9        172.5       189.0       261.2
Share of lf'nufac-
tures in Total
Domestic Exports                                                           38          57          63          70
(%             41        43-5                  55          47385630
Source: Statistical Services
LCPIl
f3r



BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Exports of Manufactures
(BDS$ million)
Share    Share
1970    1978
Product                 1970    1971      1972    1973       1974    1975    1976       1977    1978         X        %
Rumn                    3.3      4.1       4.6      4.7      5.0       4.3      4.4      5.7      6.0       12.9       4.6
Food, Beverages         6.6      4.2       5.3      6.7      9.6      10.3      8.6    11.2      12.7       25.8       9.7
Chemicals               2.1      2.5       3.3      4.3      4.9       5.5      5.9      5.6      9.3       8.2        7.1
Electronic Components    6.4     3.8       4.2      6.4      8.8       9.5     13.8    16.4      37.9       25.0      28.9      g
Gannents                3.7      4.2       5.4     10.3     18.5      26.8     30.6    37.8      40.6       14.5      31.0
Leather Products,       0.1      0.4       3.0      4.9      1.2       0.1       -       -        1.9       0.3        1.4
Sports Equipment
Other                   3.4      3.6      6.3       8.5     11.4      11.0     15.5    15.4      22.7       13.3      17.3
Total Yanufactures    25.6    22.8      32.1     45.8     59.4      67.5     78.8    92.1    131.1       100.0     100.0
Sources Barbados Statistical Services
LCPIl



BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Sales and Exports of Manufactured Products in 1977
(BDS$ million)
Total       Domestic         CARICOM        Other          Total          Export
Industri               Won.          Sales         Exports         2xportm        Nxports        Share  )
Food Produots              66.2           57.2           5.9            3.1            9.0            13.6
Beverages, Tobacco         44.6           37.5           3.6            3.5            7.1            15.9
Textiles, Footwear         4.5             1.6           2.9             -             2.9            64.4
Apparel                    35.5           10.8           8.0           16.7           24.7            69.5                 X
U'
Furniture                   7.6            7.5           0.1             -             0.1              1.3
Printing                   13.2           12.3           0.8            0.1            0.9             6.8
Chemicals                  15.2           8.3            6.6            0.3            6.9            45.4
Oil Refining               51.4           51.4            -              -              -
Non-metalio Mineral Productt13.2          13.0           0.2             -             0.2             1.5
Metal Products             8.7             5.0           3.6            0.1            3.7            42.5
Machinery, Components      14.8            4.4           1.6            8.8           10.4            70.3
Other Dquipment             2.8            2.3           0.3            0.2            0.5            17.9
Other Manufacturing         7.8            0.3           0.3            7.2            7.5            96.2
Total I!3nufacturing    285.5         211.6          33.9           40.0           73.9            25.9
(excl. Oil Refining)  (234.1)        (161.2)        (33.9)         (40.0)         (73.9)          (46.1)
NIJ
Source: Statistical Services: Survey of Manufacturing Establishments 1977, Mission Calculations.



BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AN@D EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Direction of Exports
(BDS$ million)
Doa.stio            Yanufactltre#*
Total Exports (incl a Re-exports)     Exports                Exports  -
Countirv, Area                1970        1974       1978                    1978                  1978
CARICOM                           16.7        38.8       64.2                    49.4                   46.8
thereof:  Trinidad, Tobago       ( 3.1)      (10.0)     (31.2)                  (25.9)                 (24.0)
Jamaica                ( 0.6)     ( 7.1)      ( 4.7)!!                ( 3.6)!/              ( 3.5)!!
Cuayana               ( 1.1)      ( 3.6)      ( 3.5)                  C 2.9)-'              ( ?8)!/
USA                               14.5        47.3       65.7                    61.9                   52.3
Canada                             3.6         9.8       12.1                    11.6                    7.2
United Kingdom                    30∞5        27.1       32.5                    31.1                    4.2
Other                             13.8        52.0       86.7                    32.5                   20.6i/
Total Exports                  79.1       175.0      261.2                   186.5                 131.1
5 Exports of 1977
±!/ Mission estimates
+/  Of this arount Bds S 9.7 million are electronic components' 1
Bds t 6.8 million to Singapore and Bds S 2.9 million to Puerto Rico
Source: Barbados Statistical Services, Overseas Trade Statistics
LCPIl



ANNEX 2
_53 _T-9
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Demand and Time Deposits, 1972-79
(BDS$ million)
Commercial Banks Deposits-/        Trust Companies
Demand       Time & Savings                  Time Deposits
1972           56.6             207.7                        3.9
1973           54.0             222.0                        8.5
1974           60.8             260.7                       10.4
1975           72.1             314.1                       19.8
1976           76.7             342.4                       23.6
1977           85.5             376.7                       27.0
1978          106.8             413.3                       40.5
1979 (June)   134.3             457.2                       48.3 2/
1/  Includes the Barbados Savings Bank until March 1978 and the BNB there-
after.
2/ As of May 1979
Source: Central Bank
LCPI1



54-                            IANNEX 2
T-10
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRTAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Distribution of Commercial Bank Lending to the Private Sector
(% of total lending)
(BDS$ million-end of year)      (June)                 (June)
1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1973   1978   1979
Personal             56.8   63.4   74.4   88.2   93.4  106.9  118.6   22.8   28.5   28.8
Distribution         57.2   55.2   51.5   51.9   63.9   68.5   66.5   22.3   18.3   16.1
Manufacturing        22.0   26.9   28.4   24.9   31.3   38.8   51.9    8.6   10.3   12.6
Construction         35.0   35.4   33.3   35.4   38.2   36.1   39.9   13.7    9.6    9.7
Tourism              29.2   27.3   35.2   41.6   44.7   46.9   41.9   11.4   12.5   10.2
Agriculture          15.3   11.9   11.5   14.6   15.5   15.6   13.0    6.0    4.2    3.2
Public Utilities    14.8    7.8   12.5   19.5   20.5   18.4   24.4    5.8    4.9    5.9
Fisheries             5.0    8.7   10.8   11.7    4.5    4.4    0.2    2.0    1.2         *
Financial Institu-
tions              3.2    3.0    1.5    3.2    5.9    8.7   20.7    1.2    2.3    5.0
Other                17.7                                -30.8 -34.8    6.9    8.2    8.4
TOTAL    256.2  257.7  280.9  315.9  348.1  375.1  411.9  100.0  100.0  100.0
Source: Central Bank of Barbados
* Less than 0.05%
LCPI1



ANNEX 2
T-11
_55_
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Central Bank Rediscount Rates
3
Activity                         Discount Rate       Spread    On-lending Rate
Sugar                                      3             1 1/2            4 112
Agriculture (non-sugar), industry
and tourism
a) small                                  3             2                5
b) large                                  5             1 1/2            6 1/2
SmaIl trace                                3             2                5
T-12
Commercial Banks Selected Interest Rates
Savings             Time Deposits                    Prime
3 months          6 months     12 months   Lending
1970        4.5           6.5             6.75           6.75       8.5
1971        4.5           6.25            6.5            6.5        8.5
1972      3.5 - 6.0  7.0 - 10.0       7.0 - 10.0    7.0 - 10.0  10.0 - 11.0
1973      4.5 - 8.0  7.5 - 10.0       7.5 - 10.0    7.5 - 10.0  10.0 - 12.0
1974      4.5 - 8.0  7.5 - 10.0       7.5 - 10.0    7.5 - 10.0  10.0 - 12.0
1975      3.0 - 7.0  3.5 - 6.5        4.5 0 6.5     5.0 -  7.0   9.0 - 10.5
1976      2.5 - 5.0  3.5 - 4.5        4.0 - 5.0      4.25-  5.0   7.5 -  8.5
1977      2.5 - 5.0  3.5 - 4.5        4.0 - 5.0      3.75 - 5.0   7.5 - >8.0
1978      3.0 - 5.0  3.0 - 4.5        4.0 - 5.0      3.75 - 5.5   8.0 -  8.5
Source: Central Bank
LCPI1



- 56 -                           ANNEX 2
T-13
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Commercial Bank Lending to Manufacturing, 1975-79
(BDS$ million)
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979
(June)
Sugar and Molasses                  0.45   0.48   0.25   0.38   0.16
Food and soft drinks                5.49   5.86   8.08  10.54  17.79
Alcoholic Beverages & Tobacco       3.61   2.44   3.13   2.90   4.95
Building Materials and
Metal Products                    3.70   2.82   3.86   5.74   6.46
Electrical Products                 0.06   0.01   0.02   0.07   0.54
Furniture & Wood Products           0.46   0.68   1.00   1.09   1.03
Textiles and Garments               5.18   5.14   5.20   5.95   6.34
Petrochemicals                      6.18   3.88   5.49   6.60   9.31
Other                               3.32   3.64   4.33   5.48   5.37
TOTAL Manufacturing             28.45  24.95  31.34  38.78  51.95
Total Comm. Bank Lending       280.9  315.9  348.1  375.1  441.9
Source: Central Bank
LCPIl



ANNEX 2
- 57 _T1
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
BIDC List of Board Members
(As of September 30, 1979)
Name                                   Occupation
Dr. Richard L. Cheltenham             Attorney-At-Law
(chairman)             Epworth Chambers
Mr. J. N. Goddard                     Director, Goddard Enterprises
Mr. H. E. Yearwood                    Personnel and Public Relations
Manager, Towels Ltd.
Mr. Bruce Stoute                      Managing Director
B'dos Foundry
Mr. LeRoy Trotman                     Senior Assistant General
(Rep. B'dos Workers' Union)           Secretary and Director of
Organizing B'dos Workers' Union
Dr.  George Reid                      Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Trade and Tourism
Mr. L. V. Lewis                       President
B'dos National Bank
LCPI1



ANNEX 2
- 58 -
T-15
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
BIDC Industrial Estates
(as of September 30, 1979)
Location of         Total      Area          No. of       Factory Area
Completed or       Area of
Industrial          Land    Presently    Buildings       Under Construc-   Land to be
Park             Area    Developed   Constructed          tion           Developed
(acres)   (acres)        (units)         (ft2)            (acres)
Harbour             26.0       17.3            11           286,836             8.7
Grazettes           10.0       10.0            12           201,837
Pelican              3.3        3.3             6            67,730
Wildey              21.6       13.1             9           195,920             8.5
Newton              22.3       16.0            11          *249,600             6.3
St. Lucy             1.6        1.6             1            14,960              -
Grantley Adams      26.0        1.2             2            29,770            24.8
St. Barnabas(Pine)  12.7        9.1             3            98,720             3.6
Six Roads           25.0        4.2             4                              20.8
Total-    148.5       75.8           59         1,204,20a!           72.7
a/   About 88% or 1,060,000 ft2 completed and occupied in September 1979
LCPIl



-59                                            ANNEX 2
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
BIDC Financial Statements, 1977-79
(BDS$ million)
FY1979      FY1978      FY1]977
A)  BALANCE SHEET
Assets
Cash and Bank Deposits                               -1.20       1.91         3.27
Accounts Receivable (net)                             0.25       0.29         0.56
Investments                                           -           -           0.18
Inventories                                          0.13        0.13         0.11
Land and Buildings (rented arnd in progress)        19.60       15.11        11.85
Land and Buildings leased with option (net)           0.26       0.50         0.66
'Office Building                                       0.49        0.47         0.44
Other Fixed Assets                                   0.17        0.14         0.13
Total Assets                                     22.10       18.55        17.20
Liabilities
Current Liabilities                                   0.52       0.90         1.2i
Hilton-Project (due to government)                    0.23       0.22         1.36
Total Liabilities                                 0.75        1.12         2.63
Capital and Surplus
Capital contributions                               20.59       16.34        12.84
.,apital Surplus (loss)                              (0.53)     (0.53)        0.09
Acumulated Surplus                                   1.29        1.62         1.64
21.35      17.43        14.57
B) INCOME STATEMENT
Revenue
Net Rental Income                                    0.30        0.29         0.12
Income from Sales and Leases Expired                 0.05        0.17         0.20
Other Income                                         0.06        0.06         0.09
Government Contribution for Administration            1.17       1.19         1.31
Total Income                                     1.67        1.71         1.72
Expenses
Staff                                                   0.65        0.52         0.46
Local Promotion.                                         0.14       0.10         0.04
Overseas Offices                                         0.54      -0.48         0.41
Handicraft Center (net)                                  0.34       0.30         0.23
BIMAP                                                   0.02        0.08         0.16
Othier                                                   0.32       0.25         0.28
Total Expenses                                      2.01        1.73         1.58
Net Surplus (Pef icit) for the year                     (0.34)      (0.02)       0.14



BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
BIDC Proiected Balance Sheet 1979-84
klsv MillLion)
(Actual)
March 31      March 31    March 31    March 31    March 31         March 21
1979           1980         1981         1982         1983          1984
Assets
Cash & bank deposits                 1.20           1.30         1.60        1.80          2.20         2.60
Accounts receivable (net)            0.25           0.29         0.38        0.45          0.60         0.75
Inventories                          0.13          0.15         0.40        0.60           0.75         0.85
Land & building (new)                 -              -           4.98      16.56          28.14        29.41
Land & building (old)               19.86          24.06        26.10      25.06          24.05        23.09
Office building                      0.49           0.47         0.45       0.43           0.42         0.40
Other fixed assets                   0.17           0.19         0.25       0.64           0.80         1.10
Total assets               22.10         26.47        34.16       45.54         56.96        58.20
Liabilities
Current liabilities                  0.52          0.52         0.52        0.52           0.52         0.52
Long term loans                       -              -           2.61       8.91          15.50        15.87
Other                                0.23           0.23         0.23       0.23           0.23         0.23
Total liabilities           0.75          0.75         3.36        9.66         16.25        16.70
Capital & Surplus
Total capital approp.               20.59          25.59        31.59      34.59          43.19        43.79                 I
Accumulated surplus (deficit)        0.76           0.13        (0.79)      (1.71)        (2.48)       (2.21)                   X
Total liabilities capt.  22.10           26.47        34.16       45.54         56.96        58.20
LCPIl



- 61 -                          ANNEX 2
BARBADOS                            T-18
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
BIDC Projected Income Statement and Cash Flow
(Actual)
INCOME STATEMENT         78/79  79/80  80/81  81/82  82/83  83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89
Revenue
Rental Income (old)      0.86   1.50   2.50   3.50   4.50   6.00   6.72   7.53   8.43   9.44  10.57
Rental Income (new)       -       -      -     0.47   1.87   3.66   3.86   4.42   5.15   5.37   6.01
Other Income             0.06    -       -       -      -       _      _      -       -      -       -
Total Income          0.92   1.50   2.50   3.97   6.37   9.66  10.58  11.95  13.58  14.81  16.58
Expenses
Maintenance (old)        0.42   0.47   0.53   0.59   0.66   0.74   0.83   0.93   1.04   1.16   1.30
Maintenance (new)         -       -      -      0.05   0.19  0.37   0.39   0.44   0.52   0.54   0.60
Administration           1.13   1.26   1.42   1.59   1.78   1.99   2.23   2.45   2.52   2.70   2.97
Promotion                0.54   0.70   0.80   0.90   1.00   1.54   1.69   1.86   2.04   2.24   2.47
Depreciation              -      0.80   0.90   1.07   1.49   1.89   1.98   2.05   2.05   2.05   2.05
Interest and Comt.Fee   -        -      0.33- 0.91   1.49   1.50   1.37   1.26   1.15   1.04   0.92
Handicraft Center        0.34   0.40   0.44   0.48   0.53   0.59   0.64   0.71   0.78   0.85   0.94
Total Expenses        2.43   3.63   4.42   5.59   7.14   9.39   9.13   9.70  10.08  10.58  11.25
Net Income              (1.51) (2.13) (1.92) (1.62) (0.77)  0.27   1.45   2.25   3.50   4.23   5.33
CASH FLOW
Sources of Funds
Net Income              (1.51) (2.13) (1.92) (1.62) (0.77)  0.27  1.45   2.25   3.50   4.23   5.33
Depreciation              -      0.80   0.90   1.07   1.49   1.89  1.98   2.05   2.05   2.05   2.05
Government Equity        4.25   5.00   6.00   6.00   5.60   0.60    -         -       -      -       -
WB Loan                   -       -     2.61   4.75   4.64    -        -      -       -      -       -
CDB Loan                  -       -      -      1.55   1.95   1.20    -       -       -      -       -
Total Sources         2.74   3.67   7.59  11.75  12.91   3.96  3.43   4.30   5.55   6.28   7.38
Uses of Funds
Ongoing Construction    4.25   5.00   3.00    -         -      -       -      -       -      -       -
Project Investment        -       -     4.98  11.78  12.24   2.40    -        -       -      -       -
WB Repayment              -       -      -       -      -     0.83   0.83   0.83   0.83   0.83   0.83
CDB Repayment                                   -       -      -      0.39   0.39   0.39   0.39   0.39
Total Uses            4.25   5.00   7.98  11.78  12.24   3.23   1.22   1.22   1.22   1.22   1.22
Surplus (Deficit)       (1.51) (1.33) (0.39) (0.03)  0.67.  0.73   2.21   3.08   4.33   5.06   4.16
Govt.Cont.for Adm.& From.1 -17   1.50   1.00   0.70    -       -       -      -       -      -       -
Net Surplus (Deficit)  (0.34)  0.17   0.61   0.67   0.67   0.73   2.21   3.08   4.33   5.06   4.16
LCPI1



-62-                              ANNEX 2
T-19
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Industrial Estates Program: Financial Rate.s of Return
A) In current prices
Capital      Operating      Operating         Net
Period        Costs        Costs         Revenues       Revenue
1            4.7           0.0             0.0          -4.7
2           11.5           0.3             0.5         -11.3
3           12.0           0.7             1.9         -10.8
4            2.4           1.0             3.7           0.3
5            0.0           1.0             3.9           2.9
6            0.0           0.9             4.4           3.5
7            0.0           1.0             5.2           4.2
8            0.0           1.0             5.4           4.4
9            0.0           1.2             6.0           4.8
10  -         0.0           1.3             6.8           5.5
11            0.0           1.4             7.2           5.8
12            0.0           1.5             8.2           6.7
13            0.0           1.8             9.6           7.8
14            0.0           1.9            10.0           8.1
15            0.0           2.1            11.2           9.1
16            0.0           2.3            12.7          10.4
17            0.0           2.5            13.3          10.8
18            0.0           2.8            14.9          12.1
19            0.0           3.1            16.9          13.8
20            0.0           3.3            17.7          14.4
21            0.0           3.7            19.8          16.1
22          -94.0           4.1            22.5         112.4
Internal Rate of Return (IRR): 17.8%
B)   In 1980 Prices
Capital      Operating      Operating         Net
Period       Costs         Costs         Revenue        Revenue
1            4.7           0.0             0.0          -4.7
2           10.5           0.3             0.5         -10.3
3            9.9           0.6             1.6          -8.9
4            1.8           0.7             2.8           0.3
5            0.0           0.7             2.7           2.0
6            0.0           0.6             2.7           2.1
7            0.0           0.6             2.9           2.3
8            0.0           0.6             2.8           2.2
9            0.0           0.6             2.9           2.3
10-21          0.0           0.6             3.0            2.4
22         -12.7           0.6             3.0          15.1
Internal Rate of Return (IRR): 7.1%



- 63-                         ANNEX 2
BARBADOS                        T-20
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Industrial Estates Program: Economic Rate of Return
A)     Main Assumptions
Total employment in new foreign firms: 2,800 jobs (80% of total
new employment in the estates)
* Annual pay per employee (including fringe benefits) in 1980 prices:
BDS$4,600.
* Total annual wage bill of new foreign firms: BDS$12.88 million
(2,800 employees x BDS$4,600).
* Opportunity cost of labor (shadow wage rate): 50% of market wage
rate.
* Net annual employment benefits: BDS$6.4 million (total wage
bill minus total shadow wages).
B)     Cost and Benefits Streams (in 1980 prices)
Net  1/        Employment           Net
Period        Revenue-           Benefits         Benefits
1             -4.7                0.0             -4.7
2            -10.3                1.0             -9.3
3             -8.9                3.2             -5.7
4              0.3                6.4              6.7
5              2.0                6.4              8.4
6              2.1                6.4              8.5
7              2.3                6.4              8.7
8              2.2                6.4              8.6
9              2.3                6.4              8.7
10-21            2.4                6.4              8.8
22             15.1                6.4             21.5
Economic Rate of Return (ERR):  31.4%
C)     Sensitivity Tests
Variations in Employment Benefits           ERR
25% Decrease                     25.6%
50% Decrease                     19.7%
75% Decrease                     13.6%
/ From the financial rate of return calculation (Annex 2, T-19).



- 64-                                    ANNEX 2
T-21
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
BDB Audited Financial Statements 1976-79/
(BDS$ Million)
March 31   Match 31    March 31    March 31
1976       1977         1978         1979
A.  Balance Sheet
Cash                                0.10         -          0.20         0.60
Securities                          0.26        1.97        1.00         1.40
Loans - Gross                       6.92        9.11        14.70       19.95
Loss Reserve                      0.39        0.75        0.80         1.05
Loans - Net                         6.53        8.36        13.90       18.90
Other Investments                    -           -           0.70         -
Receivables from members             -           -            -          0.40
Other Receivables                   0.52        0.91         0.90        0.80
Fixed Assets                        0.10        0.10         0.20        0.20
Total Assets                      7.51       11.32       16.80        22.20
Current Liabilities                 0.10        0.20        0.60         0.20
Short-term borrowing                 -           -          3.00         4.60
Long-term borrowing                 2.45        6.37         7.40       10.10
Total Liabilities                 2.55        6.57       11.10        14.90
Paid-up Capital                     4.96        4.70         5.70         7.20
Reserve                              -          0.05        0.10         0.10
Total Capital                     4.96       4.75         5.80         7.30
Liabilities + Capital             7.51      11.32        16.80        22.20
FY75/76    FY76/77      FY77/78      FY78/79
B. Income Statement
Revenue
Interest                            0.51        0.75        1.07         1.61
Dividend                             -           -           -           0.02
Commissions and other                -           -           -           0.01
Total Revenue                     0.51        0.75        1.07         1.64
Interest Expense                    0.10        0.28        0.53         0.75
Gross spread                        0.41        0.47         0.54        0.89
Administrative expense              0.22        0.45         0.54         0.62
Provision for losses                0.15        0.76         0.24        0.17
Net income (loss)                 0.04       (0.74)       (0.24)       0.10
Average total assets                6.7         9.4         14.1        19,5
Average equity                      4.5         4.9          5.2          6.5
Rate of return on equity (%)        0.9          -            -          1.5
Admin. Expense/Average assets(%)  3.2           4.8          3.8          3.2
Debt/Equity Ratio                   0.5         1.4          1.9         2.0
1/ Audited by Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co./Ken Hewitt & Co.
Lu.^FIl



BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
BDB Cumulative Disbursements 1969-1979
1969     1972         1973       1974         1975         1976        1977          1978      Cumulative to
Sector          to       to           to         to           to           to          to            to            to
1972     1973         1974       1975         1976         1977        1978          1979      1979-03-31
Tourism         880,259   110,917      817,000   1,555,915   1,676,410   1,873,091   5,263,418   3,221,707   15,398,717
Industry       216,304   186,792       107,307     300,892      892,569      687,815   1,286,436   2,210,184    5,951,299
Agriculture        -         -            -            -        150,600      157,532      349,158         -          657,290 *
Fisheries          -         -          12,100       76,400      20,000       93,246      239,711         -          441,457 *   Un
Small Manu-
facturing      43,876      1,913       15,300      25,248       63,930       55,670      181,372      160,103       547,412
Small Busi-
ness            39,302    39,986       50,265       83,064      48,057      102,850      146,730      253,053       763,307
Total     1,179,741   339,608   1,064,972   2,041,519   2,851,566   2,970,204   7,466,825   5,845.047   23,759.482
.~~~~~~~~~~~ _
* Agriculture and Fisheries portfolio has been transferred to Barbados National Bank, Agricultural Division with
effect from March 31, 1977.
1979-08-13
LCPI1
ro



ANNEX 2
-66-                               T-23
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPNENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJE.IT
BDB Main Assumptions in Financial Projections
Commitments   (BDS$ Million)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    Total
Industry                         4.8     5.8      7.3     9.1    11.4      38.4
Tourism                          5.3     6.4      7.4     8.5      9.8     37.4
Small Business                  0.9      1.3      1.8     2.6     3.3       9.9
Small Manufacturing             0.2      0.3     0.5      0.7     0.9       2.6
TOTAL                     11.2    13.8    17.0    20.9    25.4        88.3
Disbursements
Based on actual experience, a two year disbursement pattern was used with
the distribution as follows:
Year 1       Year 2
Tourism and Industry                     35%           65%
Small business and small manufacturing 80              20
Lending Rates
Tourism and industry loans 11% p.a.; small business and small manufacturing
10% p.a., in addition a 1% appraisal fee and commitment fee of 1% calculated
on all loans.
Cost of Funds
Estimated borrowing rates of 8.5% p.a. for the proposed loan, 8% p.a. for
IDB loans and 4% p.a. for KFW/CDB funds. The cost of the future bond issue
was estimated at 7% p.a. (the actual cost for the current issue)
Average Maturities and Grace Periods
Tourism loans: 12 years including 2 years of grace
Industrial loans: 10 years including 1 year of grace
Small business and small manufacturing: 5 years including 1/2 year of grace
Expenses
Administrative expenses increasing 25% p.a.
Loan loss provisions of 2.5% of disbursements



ANNEX 2
-67-                                T-24
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
BDB Projected Balance Sheet
(BDS$ million)
March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31
1(At791)    1980       1981      1982       1983       1984
Cash                            0.60       0.65       0.78      1.11       1.67      2.72
Securities                      1.40       1.40       1.50      2.10       2.10      2.10
Loans-Gross                    19.95      27.91      37.87     48.97      61.89      76.02
Loss Reserve                  1.05       1.25       1.50      1.78       2.10      2.45
Loans-Net                       18.90     26.66      36.37     47.19      59.79      73.57
Other Investments                 -        0.35       0.95      1.55       2.15       2.75
Receivables from Members        0.40       0.40       0.40      0.40       0.40      0.40
Other Receivables               0.80       0.80       0.80      0.80       0.80      0.80
Fixed Assets                    0.10       0.10       0.10      0.10       0.10      0.10
Total Assets                 22.20      30.36      40.90     53.25      67.01     82.44
Current Liabilities             0.20       0.20       0.20      0.20       0.20      0.20
Short Term Borrowing            4.60       1.93       0.90      0.52        -         -
Long Term Borrowing             10.10     19.48      29.02     38.42      48.42     59.02
Total Liabilities            14.90      21.61     30.12      39.14      48.62     59.22
Paid-up Capital                 7.20       8.20       9.70     12.20      15.20.    18.20
Reserve                         0.10       0.55       1.08      1.91       3.19      5.02
Total Capital                 7.30       8.75      10.78     14.11      18.39     23.22
Liabilities + Capital        22.20      30.36      40.90     53.25      67.01     82.44
LCPI1



ANNEX 2
- 68 -
T-25
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
BDB Projected Income Statement and Financial Ratios
(BDS$ million)
FY79/80   FY80/81   FY81/82   FY82/83   FY83/84
Revenue
Interest and Commissions           2.41       3.32      4.52       5.95      7.55
Dividends                          0.01       0.05      0.10       0.15      0.20
Other                              0.08       0.09      0.10       0.12      0.13
Total                              2.50       3.46      4.72       6.22      7.88
Interest and Comm. Expense         1.07       1.70      2.41       3.12      3.79
Gross Spread                       1.43       1.76      2.31       3.10      4.09
Administrative Expense             0.78       0.98      1.20       1.50      1.90
Provision for losses               0.20       0.25      0.28       0.32      0.35
Net income                         0.45       0.53      0.83       1.28      1.84
Average total assets              26.28      35.63     47.08      60.13     74.73
Average Equity                     8.03       9.76     12.44      16.25     20.80
Rate of Return on Equity           5.60       5.42      6.66       7.88      8.82
Admin. Expense/Average Assets      2.97       2.75      2.55       2.-50     2.54
Debt/Equity Ratio                  2.46       2.79      2.77       2.64      2.55
LCPI1



ANNEX 2
-69-                                T-26
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
BDB Projected Cash Flow
(BDS$ Million
FY79/80 FY80/81 FY81/82 FY82/83 FY83/84
Previous Period
Cash                              0.60      0.65     0.78      1.11      1.67
Securities                         1.40     1.40      1.50     2.10      2.10
Beginning balance                  2.00     2.05      2.28     3.21      3.77
Additions in period from
operations                      0.65      0.78      1.11     1.60      2.19
Net income                    0.45      0.53     0.83      1.28      1.84
Loss reserve                  0.20      0.25     0.28      0.32     0.35
Repayment loans                    1.24     2.62      4.28     6.05      8.90
New short-term borrowings          1.93     0.90      0.52      -         -
New long-term borrowings           9.70    10.00    10.00    10.60    12.00
New cash subscriptions             1.00     1.50      2.50     3.00      3.00
Subtotal                            14.52    15.80    18.41    21.25    26.09
Subtractions in period
Disbursement loans                 9.20    12.59    15.39    18.97    23.03
Incr. other investments           0.35      0.60     0.60      0.60      0.60
Mature short-term borrowings       4.60     1.93      0.90     0.52       -
Mature long-term borrowings        0.32     0.46      0.60     0.60      1.40
Dividend                            -        -         -         -        -
Subtotal                            14.47    15.57    17.49    20.69    25.03
End of period
Ending balance                     2.05     2.28      3.21     3.77      4.83
Cash                              0.65      0.78      1.11     1.67      2.73
Securities                         1.40     1.50      2.10     2.10      2.10
LCPI1



-70-                          ANNEX 2
T-27
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROGRAM
Vocational Training Program,Technical Assistance and Equipment
(US$)
Activity                                             Cost
National Training Board
Technical Assistance                           60,000
(1 advisor during a 1-year period)
Skills Training Program
Instructor Training
Ten scholarships to Vocational
Training Development Institute (Jamaica)   30,000
Short-term consultants (12 man-months)       60,000
Equipment (for 5 community centers)           100,000
TOTAL                                       250,000



BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT'
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
BIDC Organization Chart
.  .  ~BOPRD    ...-
MANAGER                     ASSISTANr
CORPORATION                                             PU~~~~~~~~~~~~RBLIC
PERSONNEL  ~~                              --RELATIONS                                        *1-
INCENTIVES      AICRA NT       F i ESTALIINTS FINANCER| HANDICRAFTN
DIVISION       DIVISION           ESTATES          DIVISION .                             AMERICAN         OFFICE
[ DIVISIONPLANNEL                                         OFFICE
MANAGER  .  ASSISTANT~ ~~~



BARBADOS                                                                   ANNEX 2
STAUFF APRAISAL   rXt9RT                                                             C-2
INIUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
BDB Organization Chart
30AlD OF DIRECTORS|
GENEi,AL MANAGER
Ricbard Lealie
jG.M. SECRE;TARy|
| Yvonn,d Nicholls 
OPERATIONS DIVISION |        |RESEARCH DIVISION                     | ACCUOUNTING/ADMINISTRATIOX DIVISIONl               | EGAL DIVISIONC 
MANAGEII1 OF OPERATIONS                                                        FlKFINAICIAL CONTROLLER                   SENIOR LEGAL O;ICERXR
Wilfred Jcmm.,itt
),L I'llOJECTS           UL.R. RESEAR%RX1FTOFICR                                          CCUNS                            NR  CEICA  O~XE
3  PROJECT ANkLYSTSS| CH OFSTFICER                                            N S ADhINE AOCCOU|AN
0 FICEn  1) Joan ISoll                                           FLOA           |Fpic                  Cecil Co llvmore
X Marva We)kos      2) C. Squires
')  Leslie Parrix         ,
- 4 ) L~~lmo Green  
LIURARIAN /RESEARCHI   ECON OMIST       ASST. LOANS ADMIN. OFFICERS |AJSST. ACT
,  -CFFICER      ,    )                 ) Lester llinds                        Mark.'DabbI
v  2)  /    ,   ~2) Vero Urathwraite,         j
ISECU9tEARtY  I                                  jttsiiStjR1ES!T OFFICER |  |ACCOUT                             SNU. CLRIA  0FI=   jcE;i
|Anita L~,yne |                                       Maureen_Martin    |  |    LEU    '||LVonc   odpot    j
STEOGRAbHlSRI                                                         STENOGRAPIIERS  |                iMACIIINE Q1PEPATOIl
I ) O.Neka& vorX  I                                                 It) Wendy Bollua   I      ~        11U;Inls  
|2)                                                                 2 ) Dorita. PhillipS||J
|CLERICAD, OFiElER|j CJIERJCAI OECil 
MEarcia Williar          1   ) lone i'Yne 
i    -      i I I 2~) -:iriam Spr^sr!r 
&iocc-Lco   XD. Griffit I fIt. Chu'rooman|



ANNEX 3
- 73 -
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.  Sectoral Reports
Al   Alternative Sources of Energy Available to Barbados.
Winston Cox, Central Bank of Barbados, 1979.
A2   Identification and Development of Industries with Export Potential
for Barbados. R. Bolin and D. Wood-Gaines. UNIDO February 1979.
A3   Import Structure and Economic Growth in Barbados. W. Cox and D.
Worrell. Central Bank of Barbados, November 1978.
A4   Patterns of Employment in the Manufacturing sector.
P. Wilkinson. Barbados Export Promotion Agency, November 1978.
A5   A Guide to Exchange Control in Barbados, Central Bank, 1975.
A6   The Manufacturers' Handbook.  IDC, 1979.
B. Selected Documents Related to the Project
BI   Barbados Industrial Development Corporation.
Rental and Lease Policy January 1980.
B2   Barbados Development Bank.  Statement of Policy and
Procedures.
B3   BIDC Annual Report 1977-78
B4   BDB Annual Reports 1977-78 and 1978-79
B5   Export Promotion Agency.  Annual Report 1977-78
B6   A Report on the Organization and Development of the Export
Promotion Corporation of Barbados. P. Hogan, May 1979.
C. Consultants Reports
C1   Industrial Policies in Barbados.  Stephen Guisinger. March 1979.
C2   The Financial Sector of Barbados.  Neville Mitchell, October 1979
C3   The Caribbean Industrial Sector.  Bernard Decaux, March 1978.



N ;   Aorth Po,,,7t.;0      ;<;;=7W0 \8                                  710     0
-  <>         ~OCEAN
C                   0 ~~~~~~~~~KMS.
;; i. CRABSMIL '  /       <,  $t    _,,, .0' .0  0  :  8              :  wf S      - 0 to '400
;   -     >   '  .   D -   .  . .;O P O MN I C A N   M I L E SC
'IL~~~~~~~~~~2'
;  ;   t  St. LucY  g   ~PIE CORE   Rit  E;   -;: - -2                  H   .>,UERTO RICO 
S' . 'r                            '                             <E; CAJAMAICA
(  . .   ,   'l  t                        CAaribhe wn                                  Se        " -
CL(N)(ETTSL                                                           AAM 
W-5,e  SO2   /  /U T H  AME ICA
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
OLDW Et  ;i mE #   0                                                   4
W0
MILL '_,BELLE /ST R     A} [S>leS, X W   , ._9 9 ,. 2 W ^ X ;RR _e 
'S3IER.
SE    S~g          SWAMPS->
B  ARBADOS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VLF
EXPORT PROMOTION P~~~~~~RKOJECTRA
NEW   INDUSTRIAL   ESTATE         T~~HurApLL   enpeae   1te   ol   etsssferrtn,evfrte uee
MAJOR ElOEABIDGRDS
PARISH  BOUNDARIES                                                               ZOO~~~~~-t,
Ad~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~O
-.   -   INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES   0      1     2     3     4  ~~~~~~ N
MA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE



