Document of
The World Bank                    FILE  COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2723-BAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO BARBADOS
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
February 29, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                               Barbados Dollar (BDS$)
US$1                               BDS$2
BDS$1                               US$0.50
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BDB      -        Barbados Development Bank
BIDC     -        Barbados Industrial Development Corporation
BIMAP    -        Barbados Institute for Management and Productivity
BMFC     -        Barbados Mortgage Finance Company
BNB      -        Barbados National Bank
CARICOM  -        Caribbean Common Market
CDB      -        Caribbean Development Bank
CDF      -        Caribbean Development Facility
CET      -        Common External Tariff
CIDA     -        Canadian International Development Agency
EEC      -        European Economic Community
EIB      -        European Investment Bank
EPA      -        Export Promotion Agency
EPC      -        Export Promotion Corporation
IDB      -        Inter-American Development Bank
NTB      -        National Training Board



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BARBADOS
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Barbados
Beneficiaries:    Barbados Development Bank (BDB)
Barbados Industrial Development Corporation (BIDC)
Barbados Institute for Management and Productivity (BIMAP)
Export Promotion Corporation (EPC)
National Training Board (NTB)
Amount:            US$10.0 million
Terms:             Payable in 15 years, including three years of grace at 8.25%
interest per annum
Relending Terms:  The Government will relend US$6.0 million equivalent of the
loan to BIDC for 15 years including 3 years grace at 10%
interest for the construction of industrial estates and an
investment promotion program. It will also relend US$3.2
million equivalent to BDB on terms similar to the terms
charged by the Bank to the Government, for the financing of
industrial projects. BDB will relend the Bank's resources
at terms of up to 15 years, including three years' grace at
no less than 11% interest. The Government would bear the
risk on foreign exchange on the relent portions of the Bank
loan.
Project
Description:       The project's objectives are to generate foreign exchange
and to increase employment by expanding industrial output
and exports and would consist of:
(a) an investment promotion program and the construc-
tion of industrial estates through the BIDC;
(b) industrial lending for fixed assets and
permanent working capital through the BDB;
(c) promotion of manufactured exports, training
and marketing assistance to domestic exporters
through the EPC;
(d) management and vocational training for
industry through BIMAP and the NTB.
The project will not be subject to any extraordinary risk.
BIDC's proposed policy for increased rental rates of factory
space, to enable it to generate a positive rate of return,
may reduce the demand for space in Barbados. This reduction,
however, is not expected to be large as the rentals will
still be in line with those charged by BIDC's competitors
in the Caribbean.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
(US$ million equivalent)
Local   Foreign   Total
I.   Industrial Estates and Investment Promotion
a)  Industrial Estates
Infrastructure                                  .40      .40       .80
Factory Construction                           4.40     4.60      9.00
Subtotal                                    4.80      5.00      9.80
Physical Contingency                            .50      .50      1.00
Price Contingency                              1.85     1.85      3.70
Land Acquisition                                .20       -        .20
Subtotal - Industrial Estates               7.35      7.35    14.70
b)  Overseas Promotion                               -        .60      .60
c)  Technical Assistance and Staff Training          -        .40      .40
Subtotal - Industrial Estates &
Industrial Promotion             7.35     8.35    15.70
II.   Industrial Lending
Lending                                        1.00     3.00      4.00
Technical Assistance                             -       .20       .20
Subtotal Industrial Lending                 1.00      3.20      4.20
III.   Manufactured Exports Promotion                      .70       .30     1.00
IV.   Vocational Training                                 .25       .25       .50
V.   Management Training                                 .25       .25       .50
Total Cost of Project (includes
taxes of $0.6 million)                    9.55    12.35    21.90
Financing Plan:
(US$ million equivalent)
Local    Foreign    Total
Bank                                 -       10.00     10.00
CDB                                  -        2.35      2.35
Government                         9.55        -        9.55
Total                           9.55     12.35      21.90
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ million equivalent)
Bank FY 1981    1982    1983    1984
Annual                          2.0     3.8      3.1     1.1
Cumulative                      2.0     5.8      8.9    10.0
Staff Appraisal Report No. 2797-BAR, dated February 29, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO BARBADOS
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$10.0 million to Barbados for an industrial
development and export promotion project. The loan would have a term of
15 years, including three years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum.
The Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) is expected to cofinance the project
with a loan of US$2.35 million equivalent. The CDB loan would have terms
approximately similar to the terms of the Bank loan. US$6.0 million of the
Bank loan will be relent to the Barbados Industrial Corporation (BIDC) for
15 years with three years' grace at an interest rate of 10% per annum.
US$3.2 million of the Bank loan will be relent to Barbados Development Bank
(BDB) on terms similar to the terms of the World Bank loan to the Government.
BDB will relend the Bank's resources at terms of up to 15 years, including
three years grace at no less than 11% interest. The Government will bear
the foreign exchange risk on the relent portions of the Bank loan.
PART 1 - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report (Economic Memorandum on Barbados, Report No.
2506-BAR, dated May 7, 1979) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 14, 1979. Annex 1 contains the basic country data.
Background
3.        Barbados is among the most densely populated countries in the
world, with a total area of 166 square miles and a population of 252,000.
A relatively high per capita income (US$1,940 in 1978), small size, and
geographical isolation have contributed to the building of a homogeneous,
close-knit society, with a relatively equitable income distribution and
a long history of constitutional government. Beautiful beaches and mild
weather presently attract almost 400,000 tourists annually, providing the
single most important contribution to GDP. A well-educated and competi-
tiveLy priced labor force has served as the base for the rapid development
of export-oriented manufacturing in the last decade. Soil, topography and
rainfall patterns are well suited for growing sugarcane, which once dominated
the economy and continues to be the main agricultural product.
4.        Barbados has a relatively well developed economic infrastructure,
with a good road system, jet-accommodating airport, deepwater harbor and
public utilities which are run fairly efficiently. At present, pockets
of petroleum and natural gas supply about 20% of domestic energy consump-
tion. Education and health facilities are relatively good; a serious short-
age of adequate housing, however, affects the lower income groups. Population
growlh has traditionally been lower than 1% per annum because of a successful
family planning program and a high emigration rate.



-2-
5.        Barbados' economy has undergone a structural transformation in
the last twenty years. Sugar experienced a secular decline, caused largely
by weak international prices  and the scarcity and rising cost of agricultural
labor. Nonsugar agriculture also stagnated or declined in the 1970s, although
some gains in poultry and vegetables have taken place in the last few years.
In contrast to the weakening of agriculture, in the 1960's and early 1970s
tourism became the leading growth sector. Sustained high levels of private
investment in tourist accommodation resulted in a quadrupling in the number of
tourist beds in the 1960s and steady growth in the number of visitor arrivals.
A favorable climate for both foreign and domestic investment, supported by
the promotional efforts of the Barbados Industrial Development Corporation,
also resulted in the rapid growth of the manufacturing sector in the 1970s,
particularly electronic assembly, garment and other consumer good industries
producing for export. As a result of the dynamism of tourism and manufacturing,
Barbados was able to achieve average annual real growth of 5% during 1966-1979,
despite the overall poor performance of agriculture. At the same time, the
share of tourism and related services increased from 11% of GDP in 1966 to
almost one-third in 1979, while the share of agriculture dropped from 25% to
11% over the same period.
6.        Despite Barbados' recent economic gains, a high unemployment rate
(15% in 1979) continues to be a serious problem. The persistence of the
unemployment problem reflects a number of difficulties. Opportunities for
emigration, which in the past acted as an outlet for job seekers, have
declined. In the last few years, increasing participation rates, particularly
of women, have also played a role. A reluctance on the part of new entrants
to the labor force to work in the agricultural sector, where labor is scarce,
persists. Finally, the educational system has been inappropriate in some
respects to Barbados' development needs, although recently the Government, in
conjunction with a Bank education loan, has been attempting to place greater
emphasis on vocational training at the primary and secondary levels. As a
result, the expectations and skills of many school leavers are not in keeping
with available jobs, with the consequence that unemployment exists concurrently
with serious shortages of key skills.
Economic Developments, 1973-1979
7.        Given its open economy, narrow resource base, and export-oriented
development strategy, Barbados is highly susceptible to swings in interna-
tional prices and demand. As a consequence, the 1973 rise in oil prices and
ensuing international developments had a major impact on the economy. In
1974, real GDP growth 1/ slowed to 2% as growth in visitor arrivals slackened
and manufacturing output contracted. Rising sugar prices helped compensate
for the impact of low growth of export volume and increased prices for petro-
leum and other imports on the balance of payments. High levels of international
inflation, however, together with the depreciation of sterling (to which the
Barbados dollar was tied), were reflected in a 40% increase in the Consumer
Price Index (CPI). The increased cost of living resulted in upward pressure
on wages, and consequent higher public outlays for wages and salaries led to a
deterioration in public sector savings.  In 1975, international recession dampened
demand for tourism and some manufactured goods in Barbados' major markets,
1/   GDP growth rates are at factor cost.



resulting in a contraction in export volume and a consequent decline
in gross domestic output that year. A serious weakening of the balance of
payments and the public finances, however, was temporarily averted by
the continued rise in sugar prices in the first half of the year. Persis-
tent high levels of international prices led to a 20% increase in the CPI,
and continued upward pressure on wages.
8.        With the improvement of the world economy in 1976, Barbados
was able to resume economic growth and to begin to reduce its high levels
of unemployment. Real GDP increased by almost 5% as tourism recovered
and manufacturing responded to stepped up promotional activities. A pre-
cipitous drop in sugar prices, however, led to a record balance of payments
current account deficit, amounting to about 11% of GDP. Net external capital
inflows were inadequate to finance the gap, and net foreign exchange reserves
dropped to less than one month of imports. The weakening in the balance of
payments was paralleled in the public finances, where the loss of extra-
ordinary receipts from the sugar levy, coupled with the adjustment of civil
service wages for inflation, resulted in a halving of public sector savings.
The Government was forced to resort to substantial borrowing from the
banking system to finance its investment program. Nevertheless, the
rate of inflation decelerated considerably to 5%, reflecting a slowing in
international price increases and the alignment of the Barbados dollar with
the US dollar the previous year. Despite continued expansion in export
volume and moderate economic growth, the balance of payments and the public
finances continued to be weak in 1977. Accordingly, to finance its public
investment program and to maintain foreign exchange reserve levels, the
Government stepped up its external borrowing.
9.        Real GDP increased by about 5.4% in 1978, as tourism arrivals
increased, off-season hotel occupancy rates expanded, and the manufacturing
sector boomed. At the same time, a number of corrective financial and
fiscial measures initiated at the end of 1977 took effect. These included
restrictions of imports of consumer durables and consumer credit, as well
as increased tax rates, improvements in tax administration, an increase in
the social security tax ceiling and curtailment of public sector expenditures.
Together with the impact of economic expansion, these measures significantly
improved both balance of payments and public finances. The current account
deficit fell to less than one percent of GDP, while public sector savings
increased to 6%. Increased levels of external borrowing enabled net inter-
national reserves to rise to almost two months' imports. At about 9-1/2%,
domestic inflation kept pace with international price movements.
10.       The economic situation continued to be favorable in 1979.  Record
tourLst arrivals, continued expansion of export manufacturing, the recovery
of sugar from reduced production levels the previous year, and a construc-
tion boom resulted in economic growth of about 6.5%. Despite modest tax con-
cessions and some relaxation in current expenditure control, public sector
savings continued to register about 6% of GDP. Although export volume
expanded by almost 8%, rising import volume and prices led to a small
increase in the current account deficit, to about 3% of GDP. Net official
project-related and private capital were sufficient to increase foreign
exchange reserves marginally in nominal terms, although they still remained
below two months of imports. Largely because of increased prices for
petroleum and other imports, the inflation rose to an average annual rate
of about 13%.



-4-
Development Strategy
11.       The Government's development strategy, as outlined in the recently
published Development Plan, aims at maintaining high levels of economic
growth, reducing the unemployment rate, and strengthening the balance of
payments over the medium-term through the expansion and diversification
of exports and the development of efficient import substitution. The
private sector is to continue to play an important role in the economy,
supported by a moderately expanded public investment program.
12.       Tourism is expected to continue to be a leading growth sector.
Although present hotel facilities reached close to full capacity in 1979
during the peak winter season, ongoing and anticipated hotel construction
and expansion should permit a steady increase in arrivals over the next
few years. At the same time, scope exists to continue to increase occupancy
rates during the off season. Eventually, however, the island's small size
and high population density will pose physical limitations to continued
tourism expansion.
13.       Prospects for the continued growth of the manufacturing sector
appear quite favorable. Although the small domestic market limits the
gains that can be made by industries manufacturing for domestic consumption,
export manufacturing is expected to continue to expand rapidly. Various
industrial incentives made available by the Government constitute an attrac-
tive package, which, together with the country's long tradition of stable
institutions and favorable investment climate, has generated strong inter-
est on the part of potential investors, both foreign and domestic. The
Barbados Industrial Development Corporation will continue to play a vital
role in attracting new industry, and has recently expanded its opera-
tions to include a European office. (A New York office is already in
existence). As the number of industrial firms operating in Barbados
increases, however, a system to collect adequate information about their
activities will be needed. At the same time, over the long term, creative
programs will be required to increase participation of Barbadian entre-
preneurs and managers in the new ventures, both to assure equitable sharing
of the benefits of economic growth and to reinforce the development of
Barbadian entrepreneurial skills.
14.       Over the next few years, the Government plans to place increasing
emphasis on the agricultural sector.  Through greater use of mechanization,
rehabilitation of sugar factories, and improved cultivation techniques,
sugar production could be able to increase by an average of at least 3%
a year without expansion in the acreage devoted to the crop. At the same
time, in order to promote long-term economic growth and employment generation
and decrease the food import bill, the Government hopes to encourage the
growth of nonsugar agriculture through the provision of appropriate incen-
tives, the development of irrigation to permit year round cultivation of
vegetables, and the strengthening of extension services.



15.       In order to reduce reliance on imported petroleum, the Plan also
places great emphasis on the exploration of possible offshore petroleum
and natural gas deposits, and the development of alternative energy sources
(solar, bagasse and alcohol). These efforts will need to be supported
by the development and execution of country-wide energy conservation measures.
Public Sector Investment and Financing
16.       The composition of the public investment program closely reflects
the Government's development priorities. Over the medium-term, the authori-
ties plan to increase the emphasis of public investment on the directly
productive sectors, while continuing efforts toward the improvement of
economic and social infrastructure. In this regard, the Government has
given priority to a number of projects in the agricultural sector. In
addition to ongoing efforts to improve the quality and availability of
extension services and credit, several rural development projects, with
substantial land tenure reform and irrigation components, have been included
in the program. They aim at promoting more efficient land use, expanding
and diversifying agricultural output and providing greater economic security
to small farmers. With regard to industrial development, the investment
program provides for the construction of industrial estates which, coupled
with appropriate incentives, should encourage continued private sector
investment. At the same time, the Government is contemplating or under-
taking pilot studies of agro and other industries which are anticipated
to have strong backward and forward linkages. In the area of tourism,
Barbados is proceeding with the Bank-financed Holiday Village project, which
aims to increase hotel capacity and promote the participation of local entre-
preneurs in the tourism industry. The program also provides for other
tourist-related investments, and for modest improvements in existing trans-
portation, education, health and housing facilities.
17.       In order to finance the public investment program, which is
expected to average about 8% of GDP over the next five years, the Govern-
ment will need to maintain continued high levels of public savings. At
present, however, measures to relieve the income tax burden are required,
as income tax brackets have remained substantially unchanged for the past
11 years. (The marginal income tax rate on a salary equivalent to US$15,000
is now 70%.) Nevertheless, even assuming some adjustment of the income tax
structure for the inroads of inflation, if the Government continues to control
the growth of public consumption, it should be able to maintain public
sector savings at a level over 5% of GDP, sufficient to finance approximately
two-thirds of the public sector investment program. Net project-related
capital inflows are expected to be adequate to finance another 25%. The
remainder of the financing can be mobilized from domestic financial insti-
tutions.



- 6 -
Balance of Payments and External Creditworthiness
18.       Short-term balance of payments prospects for Barbados are dependent
on the evolution of the world economy in the immediate future. A slowdown
in the growth of industrialized countries could lead to some dampening in
the growth of export volume over the next two years. Over the medium-term,
however, given the continuation of overall prudent economic management
and the present development strategy, Barbados' prospects for continued
high levels of economic growth and a strengthened balance of payments are
favorable. With a public external debt service ratio of 2.8% in 1979 and
debt outstanding and disbursed amounting to US$60.9 million (less than 10%
of GDP) at the end of 1979, Barbados has relatively modest external public
indebtedness. In the light of its economic performance in recent years,
Barbados should be expected to remain creditworthy in the foreseeable
future for loans on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
19.       Barbados became a Bank member in 1974.  The proposed project would
be the Bank's third lending operation. The first Bank loan to Barbados, for
an education project, was approved by the Executive Directors on December 19,
1978. The second Bank loan, for a tourism development project, was approved
on April 10, 1979. In addition, Barbados has benefited from the Bank's lend-
ing to the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB). So far, a loan of $2.6 million
from IBRD resources was made by the CDB to Barbados in September 1978 for an
industrial development project.
20.       The Bank has maintained a continuing dialogue with the Government
on its economic policies and development priorities. The Bank organized
a subgroup under the auspices of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in
Economic Development to coordinate financial and technical aid to Barbados.
At the first two meetings of the subgroup in June 1978 and June 1979, multi-
lateral and bilateral donors expressed substantial interest in financing
specific priority projects and in providing technical assistance to Barbados.
In addition, in light of Barbados' balance of payments difficulties, the
country received in 1978-79 special assistance through the Caribbean Develop-
ment Facility (CDF) 1/ from the UK, the US, Canada and the OPEC Development
Fund for $1.65 million, $3.0 million, $1.5 million and $1.5 million respec-
tively. The Bank is planning to organize a similar subgroup for Barbados
during the Third Meeting of the Caribbean Group scheduled for June 1980.
1/   The CDF was established during the First Meeting of the Caribbean Group
for Cooperation in Economic Development, held at Bank headquarters, in
June 19-24, 1978. It is a transitional emergency financing facility
to cover local costs and cost overruns of development projects in
Caribbean countries, including Barbados. It is planned to be phased out
over a maximum period of five years. As a result of the first meeting
of the Caribbean Group $115.0 million of CDF-type assistance was pledged
by donors for FY79. Commitments in the second meeting reached $280.0
million for FY80. The major contributors are the US, UK, Canada, the
OPEC Special Fund, and the EEC.



-7 -
21.       In the future, Bank's lending to Barbados, either directly or
through the CDB will be mainly in the agriculture and power sectors.
This is in line with the Government's strategy to sustain adequate
rates of economic growth, to reduce the mounting import food bill while
satisfying the needs of the local population and the tourism sector, and
to increase the present power-generating capacity of the country in order
to meet increasing demand requirements.
22.       It is estimated that by 1983 the Bank's share in Barbados' public
external debt outstanding and disbursed will be about 14%. The Bank's share
in the external public debt service will be about 15%.
PART III - THE MANUFACTURING AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Manufacturing Sector - Structure and Growth
23.       Manufacturing has grown at about 6% per annum on average since 1970,
considerably above the average for the whole economy. Nevertheless, in 1978
manufacturing still provided only 11.3% of GDP and about 16% of total employ-
ment. While industrial growth leveled off in 1977, there are indications of
strong recovery in 1978/79.
24.       The manufacturing sector is dominated by foreign-owned enterprises,
some of which operate as enclaves with limited links to the local economy.
One half of the 184 manufacturing enterprises surveyed in 1977 were fully
foreign owned or had major foreign participation. There are 25 enclave firms
producing mainly electronic components and garments and exporting mainly to
the U.S. under provisions 8.06 and 8.07 of the U.S. Customs Tariff Law.
Foreign owned non-enclave industrial enterprises are represented in a large
number of product groups, particularly food, beverages, textiles, and
garments. Locally owned manufacturing enterprises operate in all major
industrial sectors, with the exception of assembly of electronic components.
Foreign owned enterprises are on average larger than locally owned firms;
they provide 70% of employment in manufacturing and generate about 80% of
industrial exports.
Manufactured Exports
25.       While export oriented sugar agriculture has been declining, manu-
factured exports (excluding re-exports) rose from US$12.8 million in 1970 to
US$65.5 million in 1978. Garments and electronic components were the leading
sub-sectors during this period, increasing their total share in manufactured
exports from 40% in 1970 to 60% in 1978. Meanwhile traditional manufactured
exports of processed food, rum and other beverages achieved little growth in
real terms. The share of exports in total industrial sales (excluding oil
refining) was 46% in 1977 and probably exceeded 50% in 1978. The production
of textiles, apparel, machinery and electronic components is largely export-
orientated, while foods, beverages, furniture and non-metallic mineral products
are manufactured mainly for the local market.



- 8 -
26.       In 1978, about one half of manufactured exports went to the US,
Canada and the United Kingdom. CARICOM countries, particularly Trinidad and
Tobago, represent also important markets, accounting for about 40% of the
total. Other European and Latin American markets have so far only absorbed
marginal quantities of Barbadian manufactured exports. The establishment of
the Export Promotion Corporation (EPC) in 1979 which would be strengthened by
the proposed project, will help to expand manufactured exports and will assist
exporters, particularly local manufacturers, to establish new markets outside
the CARICOM.
Employment
27.       The manufacturing sector has been generating about one-third of the
10,000 additional jobs created between 1970 and 1979. Three-quarters of all
jobs created in recent years in manufacturing were in clothing and electronic
components enterprises operating in the industrial estates established by the
Barbados Industrial Development Corporation (BIDC). The proposed project
would assist BIDC in expanding its industrial estate and factory construction
program. This would help generate about 3,000 to 4,000 jobs during the three-
year project implementation period at an average cost of about $3,500 to
$4,900 per job.
Industrial Incentive Policies
28.       Policies for the promotion of industrial development in Barbados
were initiated with the Pioneer Industries Act of 1958 and the Industrial
Incentives Act of 1963. Benefits under the latter still apply to 73 industrial
enterprises. An Industrial Development Act was enacted in 1969 granting tax
exemption and duty free imports of production inputs to enterprises exporting
100% of production; 8 enclave industries currently operate under this provision.
The Fiscal Incentives Act of 1974 was passed to implement the agreement between
the CARICOM members to harmonize national tax and duty incentives in industry.
So far 25 firms have been approved under the Fiscal Incentives Act. Thus, 106
industrial firms, out of a total of 180 benefit from varying levels of import
duty and tax concessions under one of the four Acts. This group of enterprises
provides about 80% of employment and value added in manufacturing and close to
100% of industrial exports. The majority of the remaining smaller and mostly
locally owned manufacturing enterprises which are not "approved" under the
incentive laws, are benefitting from duty free imports of raw materials and
machinery in accordance with individual decisions by the Trade Incentives
Committee. Therefore, with the exception of a few small scale firms, indus-
trial enterprises in the island can import and export duty free and without
restrictions, operating virtually under conditions equivalent to those of a
free trade zone.
29.       Tightening of criteria and procedures for granting duty free
imports of raw materials and machinery to enterprises that are not approved
under the Fiscal Incentives Act may be necessary. Currently, a minimum volume
of employment of 20 workers in the garment industry and of 6 workers in most
of the other industries is required to obtain the duty free import privilege,
mainly for control of imports by the customs office. The development of



- 9 -
competitive small-scale industry would require a reconsideration of the
procedures for granting exemption from import duties for non-approved indus-
trial enterprises. Funding will be provided by the proposed loan to review
the export incentives currently available to Barbadian manufacturers and to
identify the necessary changes required. Emphasis will be given to the
problems of small firms and to the incentives required for "extraregional"
exports.
Tariff Policy
30.       Tariff protection in Barbados which had been traditionally low,
increased when the country joined CARICOM in 1973, as tariff levels had to be
increased to conform with the CARICOM Common External Tariff (CET). Nominal
protection afforded by the CET varies from 0% to 60%. Owing mainly to the
duty exemptions referred to in para. 28 above, total customs collection in
Barbados is only about 10% of CIF import value. Effective protection to
industry provided by the CET, however, is substantially higher, owing to the
small share of domestic value added in industrial sales (25% on average) and
to the duty free import of most production inputs.
Industrial Estates
31.       Construction of factory buildings in industrial estates by BIDC has
proved to be an important incentive to industrialization in Barbados. BIDC
has constructed over one million sq. ft. of factory space in nine industrial
estates, and all enclave enterprises, most of the foreign owned firms and
a large number of locally owned enterprises are located in them. Rents and
purchase prices of factory space in the industrial estates are below the
market level and industrial firms have been subsidized through low rents,
particularly the small-scale local manufacturers. The proposed project will
assist BIDC to expand its construction program and to introduce a new rental
and pricing policy which would adequately reflect its costs of construction.
Industrial Sector Outlook
32.       Barbados' overall economic policy and industrial incentives are
generally well conceived and administered, as indicated by the considerable
industrial growth achieved in the last two decades and they should also
contribute, with relatively minor adjustments, to the achievement of the goals
set in the country's 1978-82 development plan. The plan focuses on continued
rapid creation of employment and on increased manufactured production and
exports. Employment in manufacturing is expected to increase by about 1,250
jobs per year on the average, reaching a total of 19,000 in 1982, about 18.6%
of total projected employment in that year. Manufactured production and
exports are planned to grow at 8% per year in real terms. These goals are
compatible with achievements during the period 1970-1978 and, if appropriate
policies are maintained, the proposed project would play an important role in
this respect, by providing factory space and term financing for industry, as
well as technical assistance for export promotion, vocational and management
training, and the adjustments that may be required in the incentives policy
of the country.



- 10 -
The Financial Sector - Main Financial Institutions
33.       The Central Bank, established in May 1972, is responsible for the
country's monetary and financial management including the determination of
interest rate policy. In addition to the Central Bank, Barbados' major
financial institutions include eight foreign-owned private commercial banks,
the government-owned Barbados National Bank (BNB) and Barbados Development
Bank (BDB), and several mortgage banks (Trust Companies).  The National
Insurance Board and the insurance companies also channel substantial volumes
of financial resources to the mortgage market, as well as to the public sector
through their substantial purchase of Treasury Bills and Debentures.
34.       Commercial Banks.  The foreign-owned private commercial banks have
traditionally been the most significant group of financial institutions in
Barbados, providing about 80% of total private sector credit and serving
as the main vehicle for the mobilization of domestic financial resources.
Personal loans and lending to trading firms are the main components of
commercial bank lending to the private sector (47% of the total in 1978).
The three subsectors receiving most of the remaining commercial bank lending
are tourism, industry and construction. The share of lending going to industry
increased from 8.5% in 1973 to about 12.5% in June 1979, when the total amount
outstanding reached BDS$52 million.  While most of commercial bank lending
to industry, and to other sectors is for short-term, it also includes some
medium-term lending, mostly for less than five years but sometimes reaching
up to ten years.
35.       The Barbados National Bank (BNB).  The enactment of the Barbados
National Bank Act in 1978 created the first domestic commercial bank in
Barbados, the fully government-owned BNB. The intention was to initiate the
process of "localizing" the commercial banking system and to rationalize
the structure of public sector financial institutions by merging the Sugar
Industry Agricultural Bank, the Agricultural Credit Bank and the agricultural
portfolio of the BDB into BNB's Agricultural Division, the Barbados Savings
Bank and the local branch of the Bank of America into its Commercial Division,
and the Barbados Mortgage Finance Company (BMFC), into a majority-owned
subsidiary. The Act included also a provision for incorporating the remaining
portfolio of BDB (industry and tourism) to BNB but the Government decided later
to maintain BDB as a separate institution for the promotion of industrial and
tourism development.
36.       The Barbados Development Bank (BDB), started its operations in
1969, and concentrated in providing medium- and long-term resources mainly
to the tourism sector, and, to lesser extent, to industry and agriculture.
During the last two years the pattern of lending has changed substantially
as lending for tourism remained stable, the agricultural portfolio was
transferred to BNB and lending to industry has continued to increase steadily.
While tourism still accounts for nearly two thirds of the total portfolio,
lending for industry, accounted for about 50% of total lending in 1978. BDB
has now become the main source of medium- and long-term resources to small and
medium scale industrial firms in Barbados. The proposed project would assist
BDB in expanding its industrial lending program and would help strengthen
its project identification and appraisal capabilities, as well as its loan
administration.



- 11 -
Financial Policy
37.       In recent years, the Central Bank has taken a number of measures to
influence the terms and volume of domestic credit, including the establishment
of interest rate guidelines and rediscount lines for sugar industry, non-sugar
agriculture, industry, tourism and small retail trade. Of thes rediscount lines
only the sugar industry line was extensively used. The main reason for the
limited use of rediscounting was the relatively high liquidity situation of
the commercial banks and the small spreads allowed in the rediscount operations.
38.       The Central Bank also established in 1978 two parallel schemes
designed to encourage commercial bank financing of export activities. The
Export Credit Insurance Scheme provides protection to exporters against
non-payment by overseas buyers and against other losses beyond the control
of the exporter. The Export Finance Guarantee Scheme is designed to help
exporters to obtain pre-shipment financing from commercial banks. In September
1979, the Central Bank also established a Small Business Credit Guarantee
Scheme. The scheme would apply to small firms in practically all sectors of
the economy and would be combined with the provision of technical assistance
from the Barbados Institute of Management and Productivity (BIMAP).
39.       Interest Rates.  After a long period of monetary stability and world
market-related rates, lending rates in Barbados became negative in real terms
in 1973-75 turning positive again in 1976. After 1977, credit controls estab-
lished by the Central Bank -- primarily for restricting consumer credit --
generated a situation of excess liquidity in the commercial banks that kept the
market prime rate below the 8-1/2% ceiling imposed by the Central Bank (the
ceiling on the average loan rate for each commercial bank was set at 10%).
While some banks raised their prime rate from 7.5 to 8% and others from 8 to
8.5% in 1978, the average lending rate remained slightly below the 10% ceiling,
with no upward pressure by the commercial banks because of their ample
liquidity and low reserve requirements. The minimum rate on savings deposits
rose only in mid-1978, after the Central Bank directed that commercial banks
should offer no less than 3%. Time deposit rates were unchanged during 1978
and dropped slightly in early 1979.
40.       The overall interest rates structure requires to be adjusted in the
immediate future, particularly in view of the increasing inflation emerging
from the 1979 oil price increases and of the interest rate levels prevailing
in most other countries (para. 56 below). The Government is aware of this
situation and has agreed to undertake a comprehensive study of this situation,
with Bank assistance, to be provided through the proposed project (para. 68
below).
Trends and Prospects in Industrial Lending
41.       Commercial bank lending to industry has been relatively limited in
the past, accounting for 10% or less of total lending to the private sector.
However, with the industrial expansion of recent years, lending to industry
has also increased. In 1978, commercial bank lending for manufacturing grew
by 24% and during the first half of 1979, the annual rate of growth was close
to 80% whereas total lending to the private sector increased by only 8% and
20% per annum during the same periods. At the same time, BDB lending to
manufacturing nearly doubled in 1978 and is expected to double again in 1979.



- 12 -
42.       The relatively liquid situation of commercial banks, and their
growing attention to the manufacturing sector, indicate that most firms
will be able to obtain the working capital resources needed to continue the
rapid expansion of industrial exports and output that started in 1978.
However, medium- and long-term resources to finance the establishment of new
enterprises and the expansion of capacity by existing firms will be in short
supply, as the commercial banks will continue focussing on short-term lending.
The shortage of term financing for industrial firms is likely to be more acute
among small- and medium-scale enterprises, as a result of the conservative
practices of commercial banks. BDB is likely to be the only financial insti-
tution providing term financing to small- and medium-scale industrial firms.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Barbados Industrial
Development and Export Promotion Project" (No. 2797-BAR dated February 29,
1980) is being distributed separately. Annex III contains a timetable of key
events in processing the project and a description of the special conditions
of the proposed loan. Negotiations for the proposed loan took place in
Washington, D.C., on February 11-14, 1980. The Barbadian delegation was led
by Mr. H. Williams, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Project Objectives
44.       The proposed project will be the Bank's first direct involvement in
the industrial sector in Barbados. It is designed to help the Government to
execute its Industrial Development Plan during the fiscal years 1980-82, and
to establish a sound basis for continuing industrial development. The major
programs included in the Industrial Development Plan are (i) an investment
promotion program and construction of industrial estates by BIDC; (ii) indus-
trial lending for fixed assets and permanent working capital by BDB, (iii)
promotion of manufactured exports, training and marketing assistance to
domestic exporters by the new EPC, and (iv) increased availability of manage-
ment and vocational training for industry by the Barbados Institute of Manage-
ment and Productivity (BIMAP) and the National Training Board (NTB). The
proposed Bank loan would complement government and other resources and would
help finance the above programs during the project implementation period,
covering fiscal years 1980/81 to 1983/84. It would also have a major insti-
tution-building effect, by contributing to strengthen the financial basis and
operating capabilities of the implementing agencies, particularly BIDC and BDB,
through technical assistance and training programs for their professional
staff.
Overall Project Costs and Financing Plan
45.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$21.9 million
equivalent, including physical contingencies of US$1.0 million and price
contingencies of US$3.7 million. Physical contingencies amount to 10% of the
infrastructure and factory construction costs of the project and price contin-
gencies to 34%. The estimated direct and indirect foreign exchange component



- 13 -
is US$12.35 million. Imported supplies and materials for the factory and
infrastructure construction component would be exempt from customs duties and
are costed accordingly, however, some of the materials and fuel would be
acquired by contractors on the open market and would be subject to duties and
taxes that are estimated at US$0.6 million. The proposed Bank loan of US$10
million will -,lp finance the foreign exchange costs of the project. Addi-
tional financing to cover the remainder of the foreign exchange costs of the
industrial estates component would be provided by CDB through a US$2.35
million loan. The CDB loan will provide financing toward the foreign exchange
requirements of the Speighstown Industrial Park and is expected to have terms
approximately similar to those of the Bank loan. It will come from resources
other than the Bank's loans to CDB. The Government would provide the balance
of resources required to carry out the project, a total of US$9.55 million.
46.       The Bank loan will be provided to the Government, which will bear
the foreign exchange risk. It will be committed over a period of three years
and disbursed in four years. It will be repaid according to a fixed amortiza-
tion schedule, with a maturity of 15 years, including 3 years of grace. The
Government will channel the Bank resources to the executing entities as
follows:
(a) a US$6 million loan to BIDC, with a repayment period of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, at 10% interest; this amount will
finance construction work in industrial estates (US$5.0 million),
investment promotion activities (US$0.6 million), and technical
assistance (US$0.4 million);
(b) a US$3.2 million loan to BDB, on terms identical to those of
the Bank loan, to finance industrial projects to be carried out
by BDB borrowers (US$3.0 million) and technical assistance
(US$0.2 million); and
(c) grants of US$0.3 million to support EPC's export promotion work,
and of US$0.5 million to strengthen the management and vocational
training activities of BIMAP and NTB.
The Government and the Bank will review progress under the project from time
to time and, if necessary, would revise the above allocation.
Project Implementation and Supervision
47.       The project would be carried out by each implementing agency as
described under each component. Rental and leasing of factory space by BIDC
and subloans from BDB would be made in accordance with the operating regula-
tions of the respective institutions and the specific terms and conditions
described in paras. 50 and 56 below. The implementing agencies will make
satisfactory arrangements for a full audit of their accounts by reputable
auditors, following accounting principles acceptable to the Bank.



- 14 -
The Industrial Estates and Investment Promotion Program
48.       This component would aim at increasing the amount of direct foreign
investment in export oriented manufacturing activities in Barbados by increas-
ing overseas promotion and providing a growing volume of industrial estate
sites, standard factory shells and custom-built factory space for rental
and lease with option to purchase. It would be carried out by the BIDC and
would have a total cost of US$15.7 million, of which US$1.0 million would
be for the promotion component, including technical assistance. It would
include construction of about 35 factory buildings in expansions of three
of the existing industrial estates and in a new estate to be developed in
Speightstown. The proposed industrial estates component consists of the
construction of 530,000 sq. ft. of factory buildings to take place over a four
year execution period. The total cost of the construction program will be
US$14.7 million, including land, site development, and building costs, with an
average cost of US$23.5 per sq. ft. of building during the first year of the
program. The foreign exchange component is 50% of the total cost and would be
financed by an allocation of US$5 million equivalent from the proposed Bank
loan and a CDB loan of US$2.35 million equivalent. Government capital contri-
bution of BDS$ 14.70 million (US$7.35 million) would cover the local costs.
BIDC's promotion program for the project period would include mainly the
expansion of its recently opened office in Brussels and the opening of a
new office in Japan. A total amount of US$600,000 of the proposed loan
would be used to finance the foreign exchange cost of BIDC's promotion program,
i.e., marketing expenditures, including promotional travel, advertising and
seminars, and consultants' services. The proposed project would also provide
technical assistance and training to BIDC's staff in several key areas includ-
ing pricing policies, lease contracts, quantity surveying and site supervision,
project identification, and evaluation of applications for fiscal incentives.
A total of 57 man-months of foreign consultants' services at an estimated cost
of about $6,000 per man-month would be provided over a three-year period, with
a total estimated cost of about US$340,000. Training of key BIDC staff at
selected overseas locations (for periods of two weeks to two months) would
complement the on-the-job training provided by the consultants, at an estimated
cost of US$60,000.
49.       BIDC is an autonomous public sector corporation established in 1965.
During the past 15 years BIDC developed 9 industrial estates which are currently
occupied by a total of 109 industrial firms. In 1978, BIDC had a staff of 342
people, engaged in administrative, technical, construction, and handicrafts
activities. Financing for BIDC operations in the past has been mainly provided
by the government. As of March 31, 1979, BIDC's total assets amounted to
US$11.0 million. Government capital contributions were US$10.3 million and
liabilities were only US$0.38 million. BIDC's financial statements indicate
operating losses of US$11,000 in 1978, and US$169,000 in 1979. However, since
Government budget contributions for administration and promotion are treated
in BIDC's books under "income," the operating deficit is actually larger than
it appears to be. As part of the proposed program, BIDC will modify its
bookkeeping and financial reporting in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. BIDC has ample experience in investment promotion and
industrial estate construction and is capable of carrying out the proposed
program.



- 15 -
50.       BIDC's operating deficits are largely the result of the pricing
policy for lease and rental of buildings adopted early in the development
of industrial estates which included a considerable subsidy. Leases were
for renewable periods of 5 years without a provision for rental escalation.
As a result, firms are currently paying BDS$1.50-3.00 per sq. ft. per year,
which is about half of the minimum rate required to yield a positive financial
rate of return in real terms for buildings completed in the mid-1970's and
considerably below the rates charged at several other Caribbean locations.
Lease with option to purchase agreements, covering some 45% of the occupied
space have similar problems. BIDC began to reassess its pricing policy early
in 1979 and its Board recently approved a pricing policy document under which
annual rental rates for the new factory buildings will be set up at 14% of
construction cost for medium and large firms, 16% for lease with option to
purchase and 7% for local small scale industries with gradual increases until
they will become equal to regular rentals in the tenth year of occupancy
(Schedule 2 of BIDC Project Agreement). The new pricing policy, would allow
BIDC to improve its overall   financial situation substantially, eliminating
operating deficits before the end of the implementation period of the project
(FY82/83), and generating a cumulative surplus that will contribute to finance
possible expansions of the program beyond the fiscal year 1983/84. Over the
life of the project, the expected financial rate of return of this component
is 7% in real terms.
51.       BIDC's Industrial Estates Division currently operates as an
engineering/civil works contractor, employing normally about 200 construc-
tion workers and has been awarded to date about 50% of BIDC's industrial
estate construction contracts in competitive tenders supervised by an outside
independent consulting firm. BIDC's management wants to consider other future
institutional alternatives for the Industrial Estates Division, including its
possible separation from BIDC and its establishment as an autonomous entity.
It has been agreed, however, that during the implementation period of the
project the Construction Division will remain in BIDC, because the larger
domestic construction firms that normally bid for BIDC's construction works
are expected to be mainly involved during that period in a number of large
construction projects that are scheduled to start in Barbados during the next
two years. BIDC will take appropriate measures, however, to encourage the
participation of smaller domestic contractors which until now have been unable
to enter the bidding process by preparing, where appropriate, small bid
packages, by establishing less stringent prequalification requirements, and by
subcontracting appropriate parcels of its own construction work to small
contractors. BIDC's management agreed to prepare by September 30, 1980 a plan
to increase the participation of small contractors in its construction activi-
ties (Section 2.04 of BIDC Project Agreement).
52.       Tendering is expected to begin in the second quarter of calendar
1980. Bid packages will cover the construction of portions of the full
program planned at each site. All tenders above an estimated cost of
US$1.0 million equivalent will require ICB procedures in accordance with Bank
guidelines. On smaller contracts, small bid packages will be prepared and
local competitive offers will be obtained. Contract awards will be subject
to prior review and approval by the Government Tender's Committee. The first



- 16 -
three contracts, irrespective of size, will be subject to prior review and
approval by the Bank. BIDC's Construction Division will bid against private
firms but, if selected, contract awards above US$350,000 will be subject to
prior review and approval by the Bank (Schedule 1 of BIDC Project Agreement).
The Industrial Lending Program
53.        This program would aim at supporting the development of industry
in Barbados by providing medium- and long-term financing through the Barbados
Development Bank (BDB), and by helping BDB to strengthen its management and
technical capabilities. BDB's industrial lending program would amount to
about BDS$22.0 million during the three-year implementation period of which
30% would be provided from the proceeds of the proposed loan. The total cost
of subprojects financed by the program is estimated to exceed BDS$30.0 million.
54.        The Government intends to expand BDB's Board, giving increased
participation to local manufacturers, and to increase BDB's authorized capital
from BDS$10 million to BDS$25 million (Section 4.02 of Loan Agreement).
Currently, BDB has a relatively small staff with a total of 14 professional
positions and 11 support staff members. In order to carry out its lending
program, it will be necessary to establish 3 to 5 additional professional
positions in the areas of promotion, project analysis and loan administration
as well as to fill its vacant positions. Filling the new and existing posi-
tions with qualified staff will also require that salaries be increased to
competitive levels with the private sector and other public agencies. BDB
would prepare by June 30, 1980, a plan to increase BDB's staff and to revise
the salary scales (Section 4.03 of Loan Agreement). In addition filling the
positions of Financial Comptroller and Manager of Operations will be a condi-
tion of loan disbursement (Schedule 1 of Loan Agreement).
55.        As of March 31, 1979, BDB had a paid-in capital of BDS$7.3 million
and total assets of BDS$22.2 million. The institution's debt/equity ratio was
a low 2:1, leaving BDB with considerable borrowing capacity. BDB's loan
portfolio has grown from BDS$0.8 million in 1970 to about BDS$20.0 million in
1979. In the past, BDB concentrated on lending to the tourism sector.
However, during the last few years, BDB lending to industry has been increas-
ing constantly from about 20% in 1977 to about 50% of total commitments in
1979. BDB's accounts in arrears (including principal and interest) amount to
9.1% of total portfolio. Legal action has been taken against several clients
and receivers have been appointed for most firms with large amounts in arrears.
BDB's management has been aware of the problem and provisions for bad debt
losses have been made. In addition, as part of the proposed project, BDB
would prepare by September 30, 1980, a plan for portfolio recuperation (Section
3.06 of BDB Project Agreement).
56.        BDB's Board has recently approved a policy statement which provides
for the adoption of unified lending rates to be periodically revised to take
into account current and projected inflation rates and changes in the cost of
resources for BDB. It also increased the lending rates to be not less than
11% for tourism and industrial projects and 10% for small business and small
manufacturing. The first review of the lending rates will take place in
October 1980, in the framework of the study on interest rates structure
referred to in para. 68 below. An evaluation fee of 1% would also be charged
on all new loans, and the commitment fee would be increased from 0.5% to 1%.



- 17 -
The average inflation rate in Barbados in the 1977 to 1978 period was below
10%. It averaged 13% in 1979, mainly because of oil price increases and is
expected to average about 11% in the 1980 to 1982 period mainly because of
the expected increase in international inflation.
57.       BDB's appraisal reports, although satisfactory, could be considerably
improved. Given the limited appraisal capabilities of the institution, part
of the technical assistance component of the program would be directed to
improve appraisal techniques, both through the provision of consulting services
and training of analysts. Project supervision and loan administration are
generally adequate, but are now limited by staff availability. The first five
BDB subloans involving Bank resources, irrespective of size, will be subject
to prior review and approval by the Bank. Subsequent subloans involving Bank
resources would have a free limit of US$150,000 (Schedule 1 of Loan Agreement).
An economic rate of return will be calculated on projects above the free limit
(Section 2.02 of BDB Project Agreement). BDB's management uses a 12% economic
rate of return as a minimum requirement for financing projects.
58.       BDB's lending program for the current fiscal year ending in March
1980 includes more than 100 projects with total lending requirements of
about BDS$11.2 million, of which about 50% would be for industry and small
scale enterprises, 40% for tourism and the balance for other projects.
The projected lending program, expected equity contributions and internally
generated funds for a five year projection period indicate a resource gap of
about BDS$72.2 million. BDB intends to finance about 70% of the resource gap
with long-term foreign borrowings from the IDB, CDB, EIB and the proposed loan
from IBRD. BDB will raise the remaining 30% through two bond issues. Finan-
cial projections based on BDB's new financial policies and the above lending
program and sources of finance indicate BDB would obtain an increasing return
on its equity, reaching 8.8% by 1983/84. During the period, the debt/equity
ratio would gradually increase from the current 2:1 ratio to about 2.6:1 and
the total portfolio would reach BDS$73.6 million.
59.       The proposed loan would also include a  technical assistance component
designed to strengthen BDB's capabilities in project identification, appraisal
and supervision. An amount of US$200,000 would finance: (i) about 30 man-months
of foreign consultants' services at an average of $6,000 per man-month, includ-
ing one adviser to management on financial and operational matters and short-
term consulting services on specific aspects of BDB's operations; and
(ii) training for BDB staff, particularly project analysts and loan adminis-
tration officers.
The Export Promotion Program
60.       This program would support the expansion of Barbadian manufactured
exports, mainly from locally owned enterprises. The program would provide a
wide range of services to small and medium firms interested in opening new
markets, and selling new export products. The target group currently con-
stitutes a relatively small but potentially important segment of the manu-
facturing sector with substantial foreign exchange and employment generation
capabilities. Increasing the export orientation of domestically owned firms



- 18 -
is an important objective of country's industrial development program. This
would help to diversify industrial output and exports and encourage the
development of local managerial skills. Manufactured exports from locally
owned firms accounted for 20% of total manufactured exports and about 14% of
the country's total exports in 1978 and are expected to increase annually by
20 to 25% during the project implementation period, partly as a result of the
proposed Export Promotion Program.
61.       The Export Promotion Corporation Act passed in July 1979 estab-
lished the EPC as an independent statutory body under the Ministry of Trade
and Industry.  In September 1979 the Minister appointed a nine-member Board of
Directors. Recruitment for the Director General of the EPC is currently
underway. EPC's organizational structure and salary levels seem to be appro-
priate to attract suitable staff to enable it to concentrate an effective
export promotional program.
62.       The EPC would concentrate its initial activities on channelling
technical assistance, promoting the development of new products for exports
and employing agents to establish outlets in foreign markets. The most
important function of the EPC would lie in arranging and employing foreign
consultants to provide marketing training and management, and technical
assistance to Barbadian small-scale manufacturers. This would be done in
cooperation with BIDC and would focus on export marketing techniques, as well
as on design and quality improvements in production and management. The
marketing effort in target markets would also be performed by consultants and
local agents rather than permanent EPC staff on permanent overseas offices.
Six professional staff members and the corresponding support staff would be
sufficient to operate a small and efficient EPC.
63.       The technical assistance to be provided out of the proceeds of the
proposed loan would include financing the foreign exchange costs of hiring a
Director General for a three-year fixed-term contract. At the same time, a
Barbadian national would be recruited for the post of Deputy Director General.
In addition, a total of about 18 man-months of short-term consultancy services
would be financed from the proceeds of the proposed loan. The foreign
exchange cost of this component is estimated at about US$300,000 of which about
US$200,000 would be used to finance the cost of the EPC Director General. The
EPC will use part of the proceeds under this component to finance the foreign
exchange cost of undertaking a review of the system of export incentives
currently available to Barbadian manufacturers and propose any necessary
changes to the government. Emphasis will be given to identifying the incen-
tives required for supporting "extraregional" exports (Schedule 2 of Loan
Agreement).
The Vocational Training Program
64.       Unemployment in Barbados has been a grave problem, constituting a
drain on the country's resources and a social irritant. Young people have
been particularly hard hit by unemployment and it appears that unemployment
among young males in the 16-25 age group is considerably higher than the
national average, thus posing a serious social problem. At the same time,



- 19 -
the country has suffered from shortages in key skills which may curtail the
desired rapid growth of export oriented manufacturing. The vocational training
program would aim at coordinating and expanding the training and supporting
activities currently being carried out by several institutions as well as by
the firms themselves. The program, originally prepared and coordinated by the
Ministry of Labor would be carried out by the National Train - Board (NTB),
an independent statutory body recently established. The NTB will be respon-
sible for job classification, testing and certification. NTB's Board comprises
12 members including representatives of the employers organizations and the
trade unions, and three Government officials from the Ministries of Education,
Labor and Works. The NTB is currently recruiting its technical staff and is
expected to start operations shortly.
65.       In anticipation of the activities of the NTB, and to face the serious
unemployment situation, the Ministry of Labor started in early 1979 a Skills
Training Program to provide young unemployed Barbadians with skills to enable
them to take advantage of economic opportunities. The program is decentralized
using light equipment and the training courses are short and intensive; eight
courses have been completed on plumbing, masonry, mechanics and car maintenance,
carpentry and other fields. The courses were conducted in four of the community
centers that exist in most villages in the island, requiring practically no
overhead costs. After the NTB starts to operate, an expanded Skills Training
Program would become one of the NTB's major activities. The Program would
provide a larger number and variety of courses, covering eight community
centers, with a rotational schedule. The NTB would also start regulating and
supervising the Apprenticeship Schemes established by the Occupational Training
Act of 1979, would operate a Placement Service and would start compilation of
employment data through its statistical services. Financing of the NTB
activities would include government allocations, proceeds from a training levy
to be established, and funds from international institutions. The OAS will
continue to provide a vocational training specialist whereas funds for training
in the construction industry are expected to be available from USAID (through
the CDB). An amount of US$250,000 of the proposed Loan would be allocated to
the vocational training program to help finance the foreign exchange costs of
technical assistance to the NTB, of equipment and other facilities and of
designing and operating the skill training courses.
The Management Training Program
66.       The small size of the domestic manufacturing sector and the patterns
of emigration in Barbados have generated chronic shortages of managerial
skills. Such shortages limit the growth of domestic small scale industries
and could discourage the establishment of foreign firms requiring locally
recruited supervisors and managers. The Barbados Institute for Management and
Productivity (BIMAP), the major institution in charge of developing management
training activities and of providing technical assistance in management to
small scale firms, is now planning to consolidate and expand its activities
in the context of the proposed Project. BIMAP is a private, non-profit
corporation, established in 1972 to provide management training and other
professional services. The membership includes a large number of manufacturing
and other firms as well as BIDC and BDB. BIMAP has a staff of nine full-time
professionals, eight support staff members and several part-time professionals.



- 20 -
It currently operates two training programs (Training and Management Devel-
opment Program and in-plant Training Program) with a total of 650 participants
in 1978. BIMAP also provides consultancy and research services and is carrying
out a Small Business Development Program with funding from the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA). A component in the Bank's recently
approved Education Project Loan will contribute to strengthen BIMAP's training
program.
67.       Plans for future expansion of BIMAP's activities include providing
management training services to other countries in the Caribbean region, par-
ticularly the less developed countries of the Eastern Caribbean, and starting
some new pilot courses in Barbados. BIMAP also plans to establish a Technical
Advisory Unit to provide services to local companies. During the next two
years, BIMAP is planning to develop and publish training manuals and related
materials in the areas of general and financial management, marketing,
personnel and industrial relations, management of human resources, production
management and taxation. A component of the proposed project would support
the development of teaching materials by providing technical assistance to
BIMAP. An amount of up to US$250,000 would be used to finance the foreign
exchange cost of such technical assistance and other expenses related to the
development of training materials.
Interest Rate Study
68.       As indicated in paras. 40 and 56 above, real lending rates in
Barbados have become negative in recent months, mainly as a result of the
increased inflation emerging from the 1979 oil price increases. At the same
time, interest rates on all types of savings deposits are strongly negative
in real terms and lower than those prevailing in most other countries. The
Government is aware of the potentially harmful effects of such situation on
domestic savings and investment, and has agreed with the Bank to carry out a
comprehensive study with a view to determining the policies that should be
followed in this respect. The study will be carried out by the Government
with assistance from the Bank. The terms of reference and a time schedule for
the study have been prepared and are acceptable to the Bank. The study would
be completed by October 1980. Its results will be reviewed by the Government
and the Bank, and will be taken into account inter alia in the review of BDB's
relending rates referred to in para. 56 above (Section 2.03 of BDB Project
Agreement).
Procurement
69.       Procurement under the Industrial Estates Component would follow
the procedures described in para. 52 above. Procurement for BDB subloans
would be in line with standard practice for DFC-type projects under which
BDB would satisfy itself that the goods and services to be purchased are
suitable for the investment projects and are reasonably priced. For the
technical assistance and training components, the terms of reference and
the contract of consultants would be subject to prior review and approval by
the Bank.



- 21 -
Disbursements
70.       Based on actual construction cost data from BIDC, it is estimated
that the foreign exchange requirements of the Industrial Estates component
are 50% of the total construction cost. The foreign exchange component of
the industri. ' subprojects financed by BDB are estimated to average about 70%.
Therefore, disbursement of the Bank loan would be made for 50% of disburse-
ments made by BIDC under the Industrial Estates Program, 100% of disbursements
made by BDB for industrial subloans but not exceeding 70% of the total cost of
each subproject and 100% of foreign expenditures for promotion, technical
assistance and training. Disbursement for the Industrial Estates and Investment
Promotion Programs, and for industrial subloans from BDB would be made against
standard documentation and disbursement for technical assistance and training
expenditures would be made against fully documented foreign exchange expen-
ditures.
Project Benefits and Risks
71.       The proposed loan would support the implementation of the main
programs included in the Barbados Industrial Development Plan and would help
achieve its targets by financing industrial promotion, construction of factory
buildings, equipment and other fixed assets, permanent working capital, export
promotion and training. The BIDC component is expected to attract foreign
investments which otherwise would not take place in Barbados. The net benefits
of such investment can be identified mainly with the incremental employment it
would generate, and the economic rate of return for the country would be about
31%. The BIDC component would support the creation of about 3,500 to 4,000
new jobs and the BDB component, 1,500 new jobs. The project would help
increase manufactured exports and would achieve substantial institution-building
objectives through the provision of technical assistance to the institution's
carrying out the country's industrial development.
72.       The project will not be subject to any extraordinary risk.  BIDC's
new rental rates for factory buildings may reduce demand for space. This
reduction, however, is not expected to be large, as the rentals will be in
line with those charged by BIDC's competitors in the Caribbean. Also it may
encourage some industrial firms to build their own factories. In such cases,
the reduced demand under BIDC's component would be compensated by an increase
in the demand under BDB's component to finance the construction of factories.
A revision in the allocation among the project components would adequately
solve this problem. The large increase expected in BDB's lending program and
industrial portfolio is likely to exert strong demands on the institution's
capabilities. The planned increase in staff and the technical assistance
program would help BDB to respond adequately to the increased requirements.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between Barbados and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between BIDC and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement
between BDB and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Annex III, Section 3.
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 29, 1980



- 23-                                      ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
BARADOS - SOCtAL  WEtICATORS OATA SHEET
BARBADOS                      IRZEMCI GROUPS (ADJUSTrD A AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. M-. )-                                                         N.OSS E au  SrITE) >
TOTAL              0.4                                                     SAME        SAXE     SEX   SC
AOZCULTURAL        0. 37                                !=T R.ECENT     GEOGRAPCC    D4COME         L'4COHE
1960  L     1970 a  ESTIssTt  _b      REGION L    GROuP /d      ROUP? /
C1  PER CAPITA MUSS)                  400.0        950.0    1940.0           1124.4      1942.       3075.3
1340GT CONSMiTTON PER CAPITA
(XILOGRS Of CQAL C EUSVAL)          375.0      l104.0      974.0            943.t     L646.7      2518.6
POpDLA?T0tO A"  VSrAL STLTISTICS
OPULAXION. MD-TIAR (MILLIONS)         0.23         0.24      0.25
nAN POtALTXION (PDICT OF TOTAL) 40-8              43.6      45.3             59.3       51.2         72.1
POPULATION PROJETIONS
POPUL0TioN  1 ata  2000 (MILLIONS)                          ..
STATION"? POt?OK MILIONS)                                   ..
TSL STATIONAR  POULAXON IS  ZACZD         .                 ..
pOFCtAON DSIZTT
Ptl Sq. K.                        536.0        353.0     575.0            23.35       2.2         33.5
PW  SQ. AC. AGZICIJT?IRAL LAD     624.0       646.0      670.0            80.5       100.5        91.3
POPULATION AGE StRUCR    (PUCWr)
0-14 TRS-                          38.3        37.0       32.0            40.9        35.4        33.3
15-64 n5.                           55.3        54.7       58.8            58.         56.3        57.5
65 YU5. AND ABOVE                    6.4         8.3        9.2              3.9        5.1         5.7
POPULATION GROUM RATE (PURCERT)
TOTAL                               0.9LL        0.3LL     0.5f             2.4        1.7         2.1
ORsA                                1.2          1.0       1.3             3.7         3.0
CIUDE IRTH RATE CPU TOUSAD)          32.2         21.0      19.0             32.8       27.5        31.4
cItmE DEATS  RATE (PER T5OUSAND)     12.0          9.0       8.0              8.5        9.1          8.2
GROSS RUPltODUCSON RATE               2.3          1.4       1.1              2.4        1.8          1.9
FAKILt PLANNING
ACCEPTORS ANNUAL (TIOOSAJDS)         ..           ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARDE  GOK)        ..           ..        ..             17.7
FOOD AND niTRIrION
LNDEX of FOOD PRODUCTION
PE. CAPITA (tf69-71-100)          105.3       107-0       91.0            99.4       102.0        98.7
PUt CAPITA SUPPLY 07
CA.IES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRtNTS)                     110.0        94.0      133.0           107.0       120.8       112.7
PROTEIMS (CRKS PE. DAT)            65.0        73.0/cL   82.5             60.4        80.9        70.3
OF WHICH ANMAL AND  ULSsE          ..        47.0-L     52.3            28.3        31.3
MINLD (AGES 1-4) .(TJALITY RATE       4.0          4.0       3.0              6.7        5.L         2.5
EEALTI
LIUE EFecTAMCT AT SIR?  (TEARS)    62.7          67.6       71.0            63.6        65.6        68.7
INPAMS HORTALITT RATE (PD.
THOUSAND)                            60.0        46.3       28.0             76.1       45.5        20.8
ACCESS TO SAFE i7ATSI (PRCENT OF
POPULATION)
SOTAL                                ..         93.0     100.0            63.4        69.4        73.9
URSAN                                *-        95.0      100.0            79.5        85.1        94.6
RURAL                                .         9 100.0   100.0            38.6        43.0        64.6
ACCESS S0 EzEA DISPOSAL (P00C5N
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        100.0     100.0            58.8        70.1
UBAN                                 *.       LO .0      100.0            77.8        88.3
RULAL                                ..       100.0      100.0            24.5        33.2
POPULATION PD. msIcTAN             2SW.0/h    1890.0    1468.0            1841.9      1343.2       981.8
POPULATION PER 180asIN   P!sON     650.0       430.0      394.0           933.7       765.0       397.8
POPULATION PD. HOSPKIAL SED
rOTAL                             170.0       100.0      11.0           563.4       197.6       240.6
118AN                                ..        70.0       90.0           279.4       260.2
RURAL                                *        110.0g    170.0/i        1140.9      1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL 81             ..         9.0       11.0            25.7        17.3        19.2
?OU'SING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
MTAL                                4.0         3.9         ..             5.0         4. 7
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..             4.8           4
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..             5.3         5.1
AYEAGE .NUHBER OF 9SONS PM ION
TorAL                               1.2          1.0        ..             1.3         1.1
1AUN                                1.2         1.0         ..             1.3         1.2
RURAL                                                                      L. .  *3    1. 2
ACCESS rO ELECTRIC=S (?PUCNT
OP DWELLINGS)
RTAL                                          -69.0
R4.'AL.                                    ..                             14.2



24 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
SABJAOOS - SOCIAL INDICATOIRtS DASA SRmET
3AD0Q$                   SZIEZNCZ CROUPS (       IDJUStED AyERAOZs
- fOST RECESr NSEtTnIAT) -
SAN         SAM     XEXST H7.{R
NOST RECENTW    oZocuIuc    :XCOM        I4COfE
1960 /b    1970 lb  t>ATE lb        REG5ON /c  CROUP Id   GROUP /a
EDUCATION
ACJUSTED LN0LL211W? RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                95.0       100.0    108.0            107.3      :0t.7       107.6
MALE                98.0       101.0    107.0            109.1      il0.03
TDIALB              92.0        98.0    110.0            L07.4       92.8
SECONDARY:  TOT&L                39.0        65.0      78.0            40.5       51.2        39.7
MRALE               U4.0        72.0      75.0            40.4       56.4
!EALE               33.0        58.0      81.0            39.0       43.7
VOCATIONAL ENDOL. (2 o0  SZCONDAY)  5.0         7.0       7.0            18.5       18.3
mu.L-?eACM RATTO
PRISMA.T                         40.0        33.0        3.             7 .1      27.1
SECONtRY                         29.0        Z7.0      20.0            17.9       25.3
A3ULT LITERACY LATE (PERCENT)      94.0        97.0      99.0            77.4       86.1
CONfSUMPTION
PASSeNGER CARS PER TSOUSAND
POPULSATIN                       35.0        82.0      97.3            29.1       53.4        68.1
RDIO RECEIZVRS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                      150.0       347.0    526.0            172.1      Z25.9       210.3
TV  RCE7VtS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         ..        63.0    194.0             67.9      102.6       117.7
NEWSPAPER ("OAnt GENERAL
UITUREST') CIRCULATIaN PR
THOUSMAR  POPULATION               85.0        90.0      98.0            76.1       78.5
CINE1MA ANffUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0      5.0       4.9             4.2        3.6
I1PLOYMENT
T-TAL  AOR FORCE (TROUSANDS)       90.0        90.0    103.9
FMAIE (PERCENT)                  41.8        40.0      39.8            21.5       2'.5       Z7.2
ACRICTSLTMLR (PERCENT)           26.4        16.5       9.6            30.2       28.9        23.8
UMSTRY (PERCENT) *               27.4        29.6      25.3            23.8       30.6
PAitTICIPATION RATE (CERCUT)
TOTAL                              39.6        37.8      40.0            30.9       33.8        40.1
MALE                               51.3        48.3      50.3            47.3       51.3        55.7
IEMALE                             30.2        28.4      30.6            13.3       16.3        24.7
ECONOtIC DEPEEENCY RATIO              1.2         1.2       1.0             1.3        1.3         1.0
rNCOME DtSTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PtIVATE INCOE
IZCEIVBD BY
RHGNEST 5 PERCENr OF 8OU5EHOL35    ..        t9.8L7      *-            23.7
HICHEST 20 PERCENT Of bOUSEBOLDS    ..       44.0.I      *-            5a.7       57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLOS    ..                    ..             2.9        3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCzNT 0F aOUsEROL3s    .. s.6                .              9.9       11.0         ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UlSAN                              ..          ..    484.0            265.6
RURAL                              ..          ..    484.0            185.1
ESTL'RATED RELATIVE ;7VERTY INCOHE
LEVEL (US$ PMR CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    518.0            396.3      550.0
RA?L                               *-          *-    518.0            308.1      403.4
ESTLMATED POPULATION SELOW  6BSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..      23.0            35.2
RL'RAL                                                 23.0            46.6
.. ot available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusaed group averages for each indicator are popuolacon-wailhead geametric  eans, excluding the xtcree
values of che indicator and the sCct populated country in ech group. Coverage if councries awng the
indicators depends on availability of dats and is nr7 uniform.
/b    Unless ncheri,e noced, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for l970, between 1969
and 2971; and 'or Hosx  Recent Oscimats, berteen 1974 and 1977.
/c    Latin Axerica & Caribbean;  Id  Upper MXiddle Income (S1136-2500 per cAcica. 1976); /e Pigh Incoma
(over 52300 per capita, 19763T If 3ue to Nigratlon, population growth rate is lower cthan raze of
natural incre2&e;  R  1966; /b  1962;  /i Gover=ent establisnnents only;  Ji  ineome recipient.
Most Petent Estizate of 0  per capita is for 1978.
*   Includes manufacturing, mining, construction and public utitlities.



- 25  -                         ~~ANNEX 1
-25-                            ~~~Page 3of 5
DEINIITIONS OF SOCIAL IIEDICAMS9
S&Ls:  The odu.oted g..oup ev,ra&.. for each indicator are ppico-egtdgeometric meas.. eacludifts the extrams  volume of the Todiestor eand the meet
pop.ulat d coun try in each *rOup. Cove...gs of oountri.. amoog lb. tndicl.t. depends..o *vell.biiity of data sod la sot ..if.-. ke to lock of dLata
grop c.ae  far Capital Surplus 011 L.port.r. cod Indicators of aco  to -. wet.   od  mroa di.poecl, howiete. loomss distribution nod poverty  rer
si.plo papolutton-wei8hted g.itrle mecass without th. co-lucto of antom wales..
LANDS AREA ( .4ecd eq. km)                                                                ftonaction P0r boanitel bed - total. Urban. bad crurl - Populatios (total.
LT_tal - Total suwners area coapr1intg land  rea and island water..                         urban, nod  oral.) dI.ld.d by their                uwpoti be,hr of hospital beds
MrI.Lc..o'-i - Ka.t re-at .etiucta Ef  Wgic.lt.oal sc. .and temporarily                    ea..l.ble to Public end prI-et. g.-rarl cd op.ci.loed hoepital and ce-
or persaoetly fo, crope,  atrc.marhat aad kitchas gardene or to                          hbailitation csoa    Mo-pitlal  or. *ot.bllohmaeto perwonantly staffed h
~*f*j)1w*                                                                              at I ...t ame phy.toicn.  lotabllohwaoto  pro-idiag principally custodial
-oeoent Inclodd.4  turd hooptal                 . howvrInld    aelth aNW mmi-
lPER't  CAPITA (US$) - COP p.r capita ..tiust.o at current corkel prtcca                         .II,lotr   otpraoal  otffedby   phyeicia  (hot boy a sodical a.-
:.2,lculad by . ectonverto. soethod  . Voald hank AtLIe  (1975-77 beoet).                oletcet,  -ore, widwife, ett.) which offer lo-patleot eccoindcti.. 
1960, 1970, .ad 1977 data,                                                               provide c liaited cange of medical facilities,
Adt.cioo.. par hoorit.1 bod - Total  -cok- of edmiosiows  to or diecharge
ENERGY! COKSUWfTIo9 PER CAITA - annacl consumption of cemmorcial esargy                     free hospitals divided by the n.hbc of bade.
(rod Icad ligrite. patrolao, eat.ral gas and hydra-, sclear cWad ge-
Ih.rnc  alartricity) in kilograms of coal equivalest per capita.                    MOUSING
A-orag I13. of h .o..hold (ner.oone or hou...hold) - total, urban. aod rural -
P0P21.ATION dittO VITAl. STATISTICS                                                         A houcohold co-aieto of . gcoop of indi.ido-ls who  hearo living twartere
Total  apu,loti. oid-y.or (.4lilomol - As of July 1; If sot wrailable,                     cod their main seal..  A boardor or lodger coy or  moy not be includod in
coorgo  r to  es-yec  noicote;   96. 1970, and 1977 data,                      the houahold for statistical porpooce.  Statistital d.flnltioae of house-
Irhu  poplator (ercel o  totl) -ati  of urban to tota  Ppuled-                   held vary.
t1in. dfIffernt definoitions of erban cres coy affect cmersbility                     Avsorag  nb.To of pereno per rcon - totld. urban. end coral - Average scvo-
of dat   ns utrio..                                                                      her of Pcr..ona per  -oo  in all. urbon. aod coal ocupisd conventional
Poaciation dosnoit,                                              Ateellinge, reo~~~~.pertlve1y.  DIPllinga occludo nos-pormnoent etructures m
Per__so. km. - Mid-psar population per square kilmoeter (100 henctarooel..noc.upied parts.
of tocel area.                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~Accee.. to  electricity iprotof doellinoge  - total, urban, and crutal -
Per so. ho. aeiutr   ed-Cmao ocoefrarclua   adConvetional dwelling  wIth electricity 1x living quarters a. pcasbtage
oly.                                                                                    of total, urban. aod cral. d-olllngo rm.pattiely.
P.pul.tl.. age stru"rtur (Percent) - Children (0-li y ...sl. working-aeg
(15-Ai y..rs). and raLired (65 yeare and over) as perco.tage. of aid-               EDUCATIWI
rerppitioo                                                                      Adj.eted .orollment ratios
Poplatro  rooh rte(por-ent) - total. and urban - Ceepeund cmEsal                  Prisary echool - total, end fecole - Total end fiamle enrollmemt of aUl nage,
sr-Eth ratse of total and urban  ild-year populations for 1950-60.                       at the primacy level eo percootago. of r.epacti.aly primary schMol-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populaciono; no,rsally Includes cbildr.n cgod 6-11 years but adjsetod for
.Cru. birth rote (par thoweand  - Annual Ive* births per thoeamod of                       diff.eren  lengSth. of primar  ed.tetlon; for coootriee with universal edu-
,Id-,:,r po,pulction;ceo-yeer ari           &t veraes endin ax 196 MOmd                  cation enrollment many, eascend 100 percent em.nc  ene pupils are helm  or
1970 cd fivo-yce  aveag  ending in 1975 for coot recan  *etimate.                        ob..e the official school age.
Crude deoth rote (per thoooandj. - Aonnua  deaths por thouoand of mid-                   Secondary sch-ol - total. and f6walo - Coaptad c  above; seondary oduca-
:eer p~opulation; t....... .rithuacti  ..v.regco ending in 1960 cosd 1970                ti.n coquir.o et lea.st four year. of approved pri-oy Instruction; pro-
nJfe-Year cve-4. ending in 1975 for soot receot etmloto.                            vIdeo S..Enerl v-cctlna..  or - tacher training Instructions for pupils
Gro.. r!production  ate - Averago neehar of daughtero a woman vill hear                    oeually of 12 to 17 year. of ago; cocreoposdonecoose  ara generally
in nc o      I .c     .  .erdutv   poorod fiiehe axperien-e  present ago-              aldd
ocilc faertIity races; -uealy fv-year averag.o ending In 1960.                       Vocational enrollment (vercent of  mecodar,  - Vocational ixetitutiono  in~-
1170. and 197).                                                                          clditcial  ind-otrial, or other prorama which operate independently
tand  plnnig -accoror ,-e-uI (thouea-dsl - Annual  eMbher .f                       ora  dprteato o,f eadryinstltutIn..T.     u
a optoe o  bIthcontro  devce  under aumpicos of  ational fmtly                    uo-tch   rtIo - primar. end eon...dary - Toe              atdnto enoledIn
anIgpograim.                                                                       primry and,:econdery levels divided by namber, of teachers In the co"e-
ooll, plnig-oEr  (percent of married  vw,me) - Percetoege a oope.dlg  leel.
,:rri:d  -ve  of child-hearing age (15-44 year.) who uee birth-control               AdulIt llt.racv rare (percent) - Lit.rtet cd.ltm (able to rodand wrwite) on
:vle .to all corded woa  in sees.8 aggroup.                                                r emiss.tg   of total adult population aged 15 year. and over.
FOOl ANDO NUTRITION                                                                     COKSUI1no
'-d..of food prod-tion nor capita f1970o10    - Indes n.ber of per                     P..... gr tars (nor thooeand population) - P....ng.  oa. cor         pie colpla,wor -ars
:.pit. enn..I production pf .11 food c           toits.                               seating less than eight person.; acclud.o amb.lancos. heareas and sOlitary
?14   pit.s upply of calories (percent of reoulrcensot) - Comuted free                 -hIcles.
o.Ergy equivlen   fo  fod Eu plla  avaLilble  in count ry per rapltc                 Rodl reeie.  pr.thruecod eulto    -All types of cralvere for radio
pe La.Aalahle ePple  ron"priso doetic poductio. imorts bee                     bros.drceeto to ..an.eraI puhlic per thb...and of population; occlude.  unliteoad
eaprco  an  cengs i  etk   het euPplie  exclude coiincl feed. odeed,            receivrer  In countries and Is year. when registratipon of radio sets twos is
qunli . ed in fod procesin,  nIoe. i  dietribotlon.  he-                       effoct; deta for recent y.ero coy not ho ceeperablo oLoc. -at couctrioe
qJoreoewre ..timat.d by PAl bo..ed ot phyoiological coeds for nor-              co1iohed licensing.
..I activity and health co...lderiog  no.irmk.otal tmeperstur.. body                  TV r-riv.r. (p.c tho.o.nd pnlto)-TV receiver. for b-edcaet to geerat
aifgh,eg  eEte icrhro.o  poP.lation. and allewiog 10 per-                               publIc per thou..and population; exc lude  unlic ...ed TV r-celvare is cown-
sortforocee athovebId leel                                                        trIes end in y.r. when ragiatr-tlon of TV saet  w.as in effect.
-r cpita cop), oprote,In(.;rc.. ,per day) - Protein concent of per                   s.tnrciclto   jper tho-unod population) - Shoe the cvorcgo circul,-
~optu  at  uppy  f7fodpr  ay    00 ppl7 offn   edfio    .to  of  dIly gnera  interest neuspaper'. defined cs a periodical publi-
cr00    tquiconentie for all countriesteotmblihoo1d by SSOA provide fec             cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
nivsueellwase o  h  groin  of total p-rtein per day end 20 grown                 be `daly' if it appears et leaet four close a week.
so aalend puloprtIn.of whIch 10 gram. ehuld be anial protoin.                        Co.- annual attondonce Par capita per Y..r - Bend on the umber of tickets
rhte.  -oadardo at. Ioar then thooeo   5 groa  of toa I protol  and                      .oId during tEn  year, Including admIasose. to drive-in cIneens, and unbile
23 ..... of an-Im  protein a. so avrage for the twrld, proponed by                       unIte.
WA  in c1,  Third World Food lorvey.  n    .u    yrti    u"yo    od                 DFOH
Cder,ivo  fIre animal  and poisesi  gream  per day                                    Total labor force (thou.... do  - Eoonoolcally active Pereons, including armed
ChId (upa1-4  motalty  ace(pr thou ..d) - Annual death. per thou.-                forces and unem ployed hut  -1cluIni houoewiv-, stodente, etc.  Defini-
und 1r age gooop 1-4 Years. to children in chic age group.                               ti... In vcri... co..ntries ace noc copereble.
F.al (prcnt) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HtALTO                                                                                   AgIEulur  (per-et) - Labor force 1c faroln.9  forsatry, hunting and fishing
-                 ~~~LIe eoeo ya   it   yer)-Aeaene   of yar  of life                                         ae pecr .a.tng  of total labor f-re..
raiofat "brh; u-oa1y fiv--year so.rage  ..ding In 1960. 1970.                    Industry (percent) - Labor force in miing&  contruction, mnu-facturing and
and 1975                                                                                  lcrct,ctradgsc   oonaoo  tota  Labor ferct.
Iof.vo .o. -1ity ret. )ee- thousand) - Annual death. of infenst  under                   ari.E.  1tior ree(eret     ttl   al,adtonl. - To tal, cole, and
......oo  cfscpptosndlv   ih                                                            onal. l.bor foreasprenae  of their r-opactiv- populations.
ACOu tooaftooer  perentof Population) - Etotel.  rbn  adcoe -I                     Tho.. ac. ILOI. ed)uu-d p-rticipation races caLiectiag.          o-a
'cir  f P'.y (tta,uban, and rural) oith raoaleace  to                             ocrcror  of the PopuIetion. and 1sf  time trend.
eoao!r suppl  (locius  traeEufc   ae.o   nrae   o                                  coseic depend.-ry rati  - Rta. of pop.lctien under 15 and 65 and  -ovr to
u-c-tonint,d  ater evb  0  hat.f from  prteted bor..holee. sprIngs.th. Icbor farc  In age greop mi 15-64 y-eac.
cod ... itry voulhe) as  pecnoe  of their ropccive Populations.
n an urban crec e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pab1lc fousrein or etendPot  lctdntsr      Ot1OilgT
thor 21mar    froe a h..::. may.ho cns-Idro:,d,a. being within cEo-                   P.r...ntace of pliv.t. inrc         (both in o-h and hind) ....Iv-d by rclh.ot S
e-ail occo    f that houoe.       In Iua-aaeeonble ece... tuld                           parct,  richest 20 pErcoot. poorest 20 percent. and pooroot 40 Percant
l.ply thuth Ihousewif  o En-hero of r.ho huehId do not hove toofho'usholde.
oiP'eod adiPr'prta   mc   Per  of thI  da Yin fethholg the family.s
o  .te   vdo.                                                                    POVERTY TAStGET CgOUPs
L. Ke1    --crta di.poosl (Percent of ponolation) - total, urban,sod                 Etste..d shoolute pv-rrv moose lsi(              prcait.l - urban And rural-
-uro  - Nuxbcr Et people (total, urban, end rural)  .eve  byaeet                           Absolute poverty irrs  1..1 ie tht  income level::  belo  which a s1insleI
dip.coseha1ocoua  o   bi   CpOci.ppltos    tret                                          -ornitionaly adoquslo diet plo.... eertial non-food  -cq.iro.at. isnr
dpyolnyiouo  h   oici ad diopacl L wth or without                                       ffordable.
___onot. of boe   -ncrts and ut-oater bY wate-borne oyls                               elas eoioPov-to incus, level (US$ P., capita) - urban sod rural 
or  O   toe of PIt p,nivio  cod dolla Is'eLt -L-aton.                                   R.la,Ios puoprty boone 1-1o is that Inc.-   .-Io   l.es  than one-third
.",_t-p., phynic tan- PooIaoi    dl~tndsdlby number of practicing                    P.n capita -.. pesoa   I-on   of the  onty
pr.cx;-ouoa q-oolfd fro an .-dic-I school at uni.EreityI.. lee.                       foiao   ouiro-eo  pvrot n  leve  (oc-oent - urban and rural-
opuJrI~  pe  oualog,c-n - Population divided by nuaber O                              ecn   fpplto eutc  ed rpl   h   r   ihrcal                               oro
us  ci maic aud faxoic graduate nrses. procticsl ouracs. and  "rhltive peer"erhicbeoertispgreater
T.  t d..   n.   pr.c   %.room. and              P"r"ronnican  Seie  lae  iolio
-1. end       ti                                                     hiche~~~~~~~~or la grea~~~~ter.l  niei   n    rlcioabprco



-26 -                                        ANNEX 1
BARBADOS:  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA                        Page 4 Of S
AVERAGE
ANNUAL
Actual                      Est.    GROWTH RATE           Actual
1974    1975    1976   1977    1978    1979            1976-79    1977    1978    1979
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                     Constant 1976 1S$ million                                As percentage of GDP
Gross domestic product                    384.6   384.0   400.3   415.3   438.0   468.0               5.0      10.O0   100.0   100.0
Gains from terms of trade                62.1    45.2       -        1.2      1.6    -9.9            .         0.3      0.4    -2.1
Gross domestic income                   446.7   429.2   400.3   416.5   439,6   458.1               1.7      100.3   100.4    97.9
Imports (including NFS)                   311.6   286.8   281.3   300.0   318.5   338.5               4.2       72.2    72.7    72.3
Exports (import capacity)                 311.3   248.4   221.9   256.2   299.3   110.3               5.7       61,7    6d.3    66.3
Consumption                               342.3   371.3   375.4   382.2   376.8   382.8               0.8       92.0    86.0    81.8
Investment                                104.7    96.3   84.3         78.1    82.0   103.5           1.8       18.8    18.7    22.1
Domestic savings                           42.3    12.7    24.9    33.1    61.2    85.2              61.0        8.0    14.0    18.2
National savings                            76.7    15.4    43.7    40.8    69.1    93.7             57.0         9.8    15.8    20.0
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                       Current US$ million                                    As percentage of total
Imports
Consumer goods                           75.4    76.7    99.4   115.5   128.7   157.0             19.5        42.4    40.6    39.5
Intermediate goods (exc. fuels)          46.7    45.2    39.9    44.3    44.7    55.0              5.0        16.3    14.1    13.8
Fuels and lubricant./a                   33.2    36.9    30.8    36.6    36.9    39.0              1.5        13.4    11.6        9.8
Capital goods                            44.5    49.0    54.5    64.8    81.7   112.0             23.0        23.8    25.8    28.2
Miscellaneous                             9.3    10.8    12.5    11.8    24.8    34.0             34.0         4.3      7.8      8.6
Total merchandise imports (c.i.f.)  209.1   218.6   237.1   272.6   316.8   397.0                 16.1       100.0   100.0   100.0
Exports
Sugar                                    31.4    52.9    28.0    26.8    23.5    32.0            -13.0        36.6    25.2    27.9
Clothing                                  9.2'   13.3    15.3    18.8    20.3    24.0             16.0        25.6    21.8    20.9
Electrical components                     4.4      4.7      6.9      8.2    19.0    24.0          50.0        11.2    20.4    20.9
Other /b                                 41.2,   17.3    18.5    19.5    30.4    34.6             19.0        26.6    32.6    30.2
Total domestic nerchandise
exports (f.o.b.)                      86.2     88.2    68.7    73.3    93.2   114.6             6.8       100.0   100.0   100.0
1976 - 100
Goods and NFS trade indices
Export price index                       87.4   109.9   100.0   107.1   117.4   134.0
Import price index                       77.8    89.9   100.0   106.6   117.0   138.3
Terms of trade index                    112.3   122.2   100.0   100.5   100.3    96.9
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                      Annual data at 1976 prices and exchange rate
Agricultu e                                38,7    37.8    40.6    41.3 -43.1  -45.7                            11,2    11.1    11.0
Industry  -c                               64.7    63,9    72.8       71,3    73.7      81.5                    19.3    19.0    19.7
Services                                  246.1   241.7   246.9   256.4   272,1          286,g                      5    70.0'   69.3
Total GDP factor cost                   349.5    343,4 360.3   369.0                 414.0                   100,0    10-0s    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE /                               Annual data at current US$ million                              As percentage of GDP
(Central Government) e
Current receipts                            51.8   110.2   117.0   136.7   168.7   203.4            16.5        29.7    31.4    31.3
Current expenditures                        46.9    85.3   105.8   127.7   134.1   161.0            17.2        27.7    24.9    24.7
Current Surplus                              4.9    24.9    11.2        9.0    34.6    42.4         14.5          2.0      6.4      6.5
Central Government cAp. expend. /f           9.5    24.0    30.3    41.3    36.4    47.3            18.5         9.0      6.8       7.3
Savings, consolidated public sector          ..     23.4    11.3    10.9    36.0    40.6            15.0         2.4       6.7      6.2
Capital expend., cons. pub. sector           ..      23.8    30.7    42.0    36.5    52.2           22.0          9.1     6.8       8.0
DETAIL OF PUBLIC SECTOR INVESTMENT                 As percentage of total          SELECTED INDICATORS              1965-70  1974-78
PROGRAM AND FINANCING                                Actual            Est.        (average for period shown)
FY78/79           FY79/80
Agriculture, forestry and fishing                     14.0               8.5       Average ICOR                       2.75*         5.3
Mining and quarrying                                   -                 -         Import elasticity                  1.06**       0.2
Manufacturing and processing                           5.7               6.8       Marginal domestic savings rate ..               0.35
Other                                                 80.3              84.7       Marginal national savings rate .0. .32
Total expenditures                                100.0             100.0        * 1967-70,  aa 1966-70
Financing
Public sector savings                               95.1              89.6
External sources                                    44.8              19.3
Other                                             -39.9               -8.9
Total financing                                   100.0             100.0
Total Employment                                Value Added/Worker
Thousands          Z of total    Growth rate                       USS   Z of Average
1970    1977    1970    1977          1970-77                       1977    1977
Agriculture                               13.6       8.7    16.5       9.6         -4.6                        4747   1708.5
Manufacturing                             12.3    14.8    14.9    16.4              2.1                        2921    66.7
Other Sectors                             56.4      66.7    68.5      73.9          2.7                        4235    96.8
Total/Average /s                        82.3    90.2    100.0   100.0             1.0                        4377   100.0
/a   Includes imports of petroleum  for reexport.
7;   Includes petroleum  reexports.
Tc   Includes1 mining, manufacturing, construction and electricity, gas and water.
7d   Fiscal year ending March 31.
r;   Includes-National Insurance System and Special Funds administered by the Central Government.
7     Includes capital transfers to rest of public sector.
7g   Excludes unemrployd.



- 27 -                                   ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BARBADOS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(US$ million at current prices)
Actual                Est.
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
SUMMARY BALANCE OP PAYMENTS a/
Exports (including NFS)                221.1   221.9   273.1   349.5   432.1
Imports (includinsg N1)                257.8   281.3   319.4   372.7   468.2
Resource balance (X-M)                 -36.7  -59.4  -46 .3  -23.2  -36.1
Factor services (net)                   -1.4      2.2    -1.8      2.2     1.5
Interest on public debt                (-2.3)  (-1.9)  (-1.9)  (-3.2)  (-4.1)
Other (net)                             (0.9)   (4.1)   (0.1)   (5.4)   (5.6)
Current transfers (net)                  7.2    12.7    15.9    16.3    17.5
Balance on current account             -30.9   -44.5   -32.2    -4.7   -17.1
Net public disbursements                -0.2      3.9    16.9    13.2      3.2
Gross disbursements                     (1.5)   (5.7)  (23.9)  (17.6)  (10.6)
Amortization                            (-1.7)  (-1.8)  (-7.0)  (-4.4)  (-7.4)
Net private sector investment            5.3      6.2     4.7      6.0     6.0
Capital transactian n.e.i.              42.0    15.1    17.8    14.3    16.1
Changes In reserves (-increase)        -16.2    19.3    -7.2  -30.8    -8.2
(US$ million)
GRANT MWD LOAN CO9MEITMENTS                                                         EXTERNAL DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                  Actual               Est.
(official grant and grant-like)                                                                                         1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
+ (public med. & long-term loans)                                                                                                                -
IBRD                                      -        -       -      9.0      8.0      Public debt
IDA                                       -        -       -       -        -         Outstanding debt at end period  26.3    30.0    46.0    60.4   60.9
Other multilateral                       2.3      9.7    12.5      8.3    10.4        Outstanding debt at beginning   26.7    26.3    30.0    46.0    60.4
Governments (bilateral)                  3.0       -     10.0     1.6      3.8      Interest on public debt              2.3      1.9     1.9     3.1     5.3
Suppliers                                 -        -       -        -       -       Repayment on public debt             1.7      1.8     7.0     4.3      6.8
Private banks                             -       1.5     5.7    10.0       -       Total public debt service            4.0      3.7     8.9     7.4    12.1
Bonds                                     -        -       -
Public loans n.e.i.                            -           -
Total public M & LT loans                5.3    11.2    28.2    28.9    22.2
Burden on export earnings (2)
Outstanding and disbursed
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                            as of Decerber 31. 1979             Public debt service                  1.8      1.7     3.3     2.1      2.8
(repayable in foreign currency)                Us  nil.           Percent
IBRD                                             -
IDA
Other multilateral                              16.4
Governments                                     23.4               38.4             Interest as % prior year             8.6     7.2      6.3     6.7      5.9
Suppliers                                        0.3                0.6             Amortization as % prior year         6.4     6.8    23.3      9.3    11.3
Private banks                                   20.8               34.1
Bonds                                            -                 -                IBRD debt outstanding & disbursed
Public debts n.e.i.                              -                  -               IBRD as a  public debt outs. 6 dis.  -
Total public M & LT loans                       60.9             100.0              IBRD as % public debt outstanding
and disbursed service              _        _       _        _      _
IDA debt outstanding & disbursed
IDA as 2 public debt outs. & dis.
IDA as % public debt outstanding
and disbursed service
al The balance of payments presented here include revised estimates of tourist expenditures.  See footnote in paragraph 15.
b/ Percent of exports of goods and NPS net of factor services.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BARBADOS
A.   Statement of Bank loans as of February 29, 1980
US$ million
(Amount/less cancellation)
Loan      Year    Borrower       Purpose                 Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
1642-BAR  1979    Barbados       Education                 9.0     -        9.0
1979    Barbados      Tourism                   8.0     -        8.0
Total                                 17.0      -       17.0
of which has been repaid                 -    -            -
Total outstanding                     17.0      -       17.0
B.   Statement of IFC Investments as of February 29, 1980
None
C.   Projects i  Execution
Ln. No. 1642-BAR:   Barbados Education Project:  US$9.0 million
Loan of December 29, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
This loan became effective on the same date it was signed. The
project implementation unit is fully staffed. All school sites for the
first phase of the project have been acquired, design of schools is pro-
gressing according to schedule, and the first contract for construction
has been awarded.  Construction is expected to start soon.
Ln. No. 1685-BAR:   Barbados Tourism Project:  US$8.0 million
Loan of April 27, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is progressing according to schedule. The Project Unit
has been staffed and engineering consultants have made substantial progress
in preparation of final design.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BARBADOS
I'DUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Preparation
(i)  Identification              April 1979
(ii)  Preparation                 June 1979
(b)  Project Preparation Agencies
(i)  Ministry of Finance and Planning
(ii) Ministry of Industry
(iii) Barbados Industrial Development Corporation
(iv) Barbados Development Bank
(v)  Barbados Institute of Management and Productivity
(c)  Appraisal Mission                 September 1979
(d)  Post Appraisal Mission            December 1979
(e)  Completion of Negotiations        February 1980
(f)  Loan Effectiveness Planned        July 1980
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Actions
Bank staff will assist the Government in carrying out a study
of its interest rate structure. The Bank's participation would enable the
borrower to complete the study by August 1980 in time for the first review
of the BDB's interest rate structure (para 68).
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government has agreed that:
(a)  BIDC will set rentals for new factories at 14% of construction costs
for medium and large firms, 16% for lease with option to purchase
and 7% for small-scale industries increasing them gradually to
regular rental levels in 10 years. It will also charge economic
rents on all contract renewals with the partial exception of rents
for small-scale enterprises (para 50);



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) BIDC by September 30, 1980 will prepare a plan to increase the
participation of small contractors in its construction activities
(para 51);
(c) BIDC's Construction Division will bid against private firms but,
if selected, contract awards above $350,000 will be subject to
prior review and approval by the Bank. The first three contracts,
irrespective of size, will be subject to the Bank's prior approval
(para 52);
(d) will expand BDB's Board to increase the participation of local
manufacturers and to increase BDB's authorized capital to
BDS$25 million (para 54);
(e) the Government will prepare by June 30, 1980 a plan to increase
BDB's staff and to revise the salary scales. Filling the positions
of the Financial Comptroller and Manager of Operations will be a
condition of loan disbursement (para 54);
(f) BDB will prepare by September 30, 1980 a plan for portfolio re-
cuperation (para 55);
(g) BDB subloans involving Bank resources would have a free limit
of US$150,000. An economic rate of return will be calculated
on projects above the free limit. The first five loans from Bank
resources, irrespective of size, will be subject to prior approval
by the Bank (para 57);
(h) EPC will undertake a review of the export incentives system and
propose any necessary changes to the Government (para 63); and
(i) a comprehensive study of the country's interest rate structure
will be undertaken by the Government, with assistance by the
Bank; it will be reviewed jointly by the Bank and the Government
and it will be taken into account inter alia in the review of
BDB's lending rates in October 1980 (para 68).



1    I                  I 
c  8                     70'
~ssr  ATLANTIC
NAorh Point                                                                                 :_A A/
0        400
S~~~~~~~~~~KS
DOMINICAN          MILES    20
PIE 'CORNER                                                  AIiPUERTO RICO
V                      ~~~~~~~JAMAICA 
Caribbean  Sec                     "%ARBADOS
CLINKETTSW     /       (                             \YPNM                                             X2                            o
-z  >3  Canal :,?s<    OU T H A   E R I C A
SPEiGHS-   <    -~ '   ;^  XMILL              BELLuEPLAINE
$PEtGHTS-
TOWN
E ST,A TL E          AM PS1                
0 01z  1               2 ~~~HILLABY /       CATTLEWASH%.  BATHSHEBAi              
0                                                                                                                           1/L X    m g )   A <
{S ;t /W~~~~~ELCHMlA@0~ 
HALL                                            L    N /J
HOLETDGTONOW<                                                                        Ganly  
South ~ ~   ~    ~     ~ ~ age  Point 
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND~~~~HAL
MAJOR R*-
--- tNTRNATIONL BOUNDRtES 0                                     1      2       3LE5RDON
ARLESX                                           ILSz          
L ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~W  BRIDG 
Deep W&mzer7
BRIDGETOWN                                                                     G-i,
INDUSTIAL DVELOPMNTSAN
EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
() NEW INDUSTRIAL ESTATE                                 Ths otas has been prapered by the Word Bank's staff o,.n,.lVsol far the nacn,an-n
EXISTING INDUSTfitAL ESTATESf h radrsofth rpot o hih t s ttchdThe deno,atton-s aed and the
0    EXISTINO INDUSTRIAL ESTATES            ~~~~~bouodaeiessho- - onthintap do net imtply, on the pat at the World Bask andtas
BUILT-UP AREAS                           a~~~~~~~~~~~~ffifiates. any lady goet on the legal status af any terr,tory or any endorernot o,
MAJOR ROADS
PARISH BOUNDARIESz
c 13
---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                --0            1      2       3       4       5>
I      I       I       I       I   
--  -     ~MILES-
04c)



