Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21 746-NI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 46.7 MILLION
(US$60.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR A
POVERTY REDUCTION AND LOCAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 23, 2001
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Cordoba (C)
I C = US$0.08
US$1.00 = 12.9 C
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy                        LSMS           Living Standards Measurement Survey
CBO       Community-Based Organization                       MARENA         Ministry of Environment
COMPES National Council for Economic and Social Planning     MECOVI         Program for the Improvement of Surveys of Living
Conditions
CPA       Procurement Capacity Assessment                    M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
DANIDA  Danish International Aid Agency                      MINED          Ministry of Education
DSPC      Department of Social Policy Coordination           MINSA          Ministry of Health
EA        Environmental Assessment                           MIS            Management Information System
ECLAC   Economic Commission for Latin America and the        MPP            Participatory Micro-Planning
Caribbean
EMP       Economic Modernization Program                     NCB            National Competitive Bidding
ENACAL Nicaraguan Water and Sanitation Enterprise            NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
ERR       Economic Rate of Return                            NPV            Net Present Value
FMP       Preventive Maintenance Fund                        OM             Operational Manual
FRO       Regional Office in Matagalpa                       OPEC           Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
Population
GDP       Gross Domestic Product                             OTR            Regional Technical Office
DGIP      Directorate-General of Public Investment           PDL-PIN        Local Development Program for Indigenous and
Black Population in Nicaragua
GoN       Govemment of Nicaragua                             PIM            Municipal Investment Plan
GTZ       German Technical Cooperation Agency                PIP            Project Implementation Plan
HIPC      Highly Indebted Poor Countries                     PMF            Preventive Maintenance Fund
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ICB       International Competitive Bidding                  PU             Procurement Unit
ICR       Implementation Completion Report                   RAAN/RAAS   Atlantic Coast Region
IDA       Intemational Development Association               SDB            Standard Bidding Document
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank                    SETEC          Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
IMF       Inter-National Monetary Fund                       SIDA           Swedish International Development Agency
INAA      National Water Institute                           SOE            Statement of Expense
INEC      National Institute of Statistics and Census        SP             Social Protection
NI1FOM   Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal Development     SSNA            Social Safety Net Assessment
IPDP      Indigenous Peoples Development Plan                TA             Technical Assistance
IRR       Internal Rate of Return                            UA             Environmental Unit
KfW       German Institute for Reconstruction and Development   UNDP        United Nations Development Program
FISE      Emergency Social Investment Fund                   USAID          US Agency for International Development
LACI    Loan Administration Change Initiative                UTM            Municipal Technical Unit
Vice President:      David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:         Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:        Ana-Maria Arriagada
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Andrea Vermebren



NICARAGUA
POVERTY REDUCTION AND LOCAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     11
3. Benefits and target population                                                    11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          19
2. Financial                                                                         20
3. Technical                                                                         21
4. Institutional                                                                     21
5. Environmental                                                                     22
6. Social                                                                            24
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                26
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    27
2. Critical risks                                                                    28
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    28



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           29
2. Other                                                                             29
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         29
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        30
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         31
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   34
Annex 3: Estimnated Project Costs                                                       41
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summnary                                                 42
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   51
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      53
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    63
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  65
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 67
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           68
Annex 11: Monitoring and Evaluation Strategy                                            70
Annex 12: Social Assessment and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP)              72
Annex 13: Municipal and Community Strengthening Program                                 82
Annex 14: FISE Environmental Evaluation System                                          86
MAP(S)
Nicaragua: Poverty Map (Non-IBRD map)
Nicaragua: Local Dev. Program for Indigenous and Afro-Nicaraguan People on the Atlantic Coast
(PDL-PINN), (IBRD 31303)



NICARAGUA
Poverty Reduction and Local Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSHS
Date: March 23, 2001                              Team Leader: Andrea Vermehren
Country Manager/Director: D-M Dowsett-Coirolo     Sector Director: Xavier E. Coll
Project ID: P064906                               Sector(s): SY - Other Social Protection
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Social Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
I I Loan    [X] Credit    [ Grant       [ ] Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 60.00
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0-0.5%                                 Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Forel in        Total
BORROWER                                                       17.24           0.(0          17.24
IDA                                                            43.20          16.80          60.00
GOVERNMENT OF SWEDEN                                            1.90            1.10          3.00
INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK                                34.20           15.80         50.00
GOV. OF JAPAN (EXCLUDING MINISTRY OF FINANCE -                  0.46           0.30           0.76
PHRD GRANTS)
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU                                  2.80           2.20           5.00
Total:                                                         99.80          36.20         136.00
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
Responsible agency: FONDO DE INVERSION SOCIAL DE EMERGENCIA (FISE)
Address: Planes de Altamira, Contigo a la Clinica Tiscapa, Managua, Nicaragua
Contact Person: Lic. Carlos Noguera Pastora
Tel: (505) 277-3340                Fax: (505) 277-4695               Email: cnoguera@fise.gob.ni
Other Agency(ies):
Secretaria Tecnica de la Presidencia
Contact Person: Dr. Luis Duran
Tel: (505) 222-3732              Fax: (505) 222-3377               Email: lduran@nmipres.gob.ni
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY         2002       2003        2004      2005
Annual   14.00       20.00      20.00       6.00
Cumulative    14.00      34.00      54.00      60.00
Project implementation period: July 2001 - June 2004
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
XcS PAD FNrl -  Madl          - -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project would assist the Government of Nicaragua in implementing a portion of its
poverty reduction strategy through the Emergency Social Investment Fund (FISE) by: (i)
continuing to improve access to priority small-scale social and economic infrastructure and
services to the poor; (ii) strengthening local capacity (municipalities, community organizations,
NGOs and private sector); and (iii) developing a coherent social safety net. Overall, the project
aims at assisting FISE move from a strong focus on infrastructure to a more comprehensive
approach to poverty reduction, including greater participation at the local government and
community level, as well as contributing to improving the country's safety net.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
(i) Increased access to and utilization of social and economic infrastructure;
(ii) Improved quality and maintenance of sub-projects;
(iii) Increased share of project funding going to the poor and poorest municipalities, communities,
and households;
(iv) Increased percentage of beneficiaries indicating that their participation in FISE sub-projects
was stronger than in similar non-FISE sub-projects;
(v) Increased number of municipalities managing their own sub-project cycles and maintenance;
(vi) Concept for a coherent Social Safety Net developed and first steps toward necessary changes
initiated; and
(vii) Satisfactory evaluation of pilot activities financed under the innovation fund
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA\R98-32 (IFC\R98-41)     Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/09/1998
The Country Assistance Strategy for Nicaragua identifies three core themes for World Bank
Group assistance to Nicaragua: (i) consolidating growth through private sector development; (ii)
developing the rural sector and strengthening environmental protection; and (iii) developing
human capital and protecting the poor. The project would directly support the third CAS
objective, and is consistent with the findings and recommendations of the recently completed
Poverty Assessment (2000).
Furthermore, the project would contribute to implement a portion of the Government's Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), in which FISE - through its various programs - has been
identified as a major player. Besides financing necessary infrastructure and social assistance
projects, the project would support the Government in developing a coherent safety net as part of
its Social Protection strategy - one of the goals of the PRSP.
- 2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main sector issues
High Levels of Poverty: Nicaragua is the second poorest country in Latin America and the
Caribbean with a yearly per capita GNP which is only one-third the regional average (US$430 in
1999, see annex 10). It is thus not surprising that, based on the consumption index, almost
one-half (47.9 percent) of Nicaragua's population is poor. This is equivalent to 2.3 imillion
people, of whom 830,000 (17.3 percent) are extremely poor. Although, between 1993 and 1998,
poverty fell 2.4 percentage points and extreme poverty by 2.1 percentage points, the absolute
number of both poor and extremely poor rose during the same period, due to high population
growth.
Inadequate Social Indicators: While slowly improving, social indicators continue to be
inadequate: life expectancy is low (66), and infant mortality (53 per 1,000 live births) and fertility
rates (5 children per woman of childbearing age) are among the worst in the region. At the
current growth rate (3 percent per year), the population doubles every 23 years. The illiteracy rate
remains high at 23 percent (41 in rural areas); average schooling is only 4.5 years, and the quality
of education is low. Water coverage is 64 percent (30 percent in rural areas), and lack of clean
water is a major factor contributing to diarrhea as a main cause of infant mortality. The results of
the 1993 and 1998 surveys of living standards show significant regional differences in the
incidence, intensity and evolution of poverty. In relative terms, poverty and extreme poverty
remain overwhelmingly rural. Two out of three people in rural areas are poor, cormpared to one
out of three in urban areas. Although rural areas showed a high incidence of poverry and extreme
poverty in 1998, they experienced the biggest decline compared to 1993, with the exception of
the Atlantic Region, where both increased significantly. By contrast, poverty increased in the
urban areas of the Pacific and the Atlantic, except in the capital city of Managua. The available
data show unequal access to basic infrastructure services between urban and rural areas. About
35 percent of the overall population still lacks potable water and 16 percent has no access to safe
water. The percentages among the extremely poor households in rural areas are considerably
higher (77 percent lacks potable water and 40 percent lacks safe water). In addition, about a third
of the poor have no access to latrines, 57 percent have no access to electricity, and 94 percent use
only firewood for cooking.
Insufficient resources for the social sectors: A large share of government resources is allocated
to the social sectors (2000: 44 percent of GoN budget). However, although per capita social
sector expenditure increased from US $44 to US $76 during the last 10 years, absolute per capita
expenditures in the social sector are still below regional averages and insufficient to provide a
minimum level of quality services to the population.
Fragmented Social Safety Net and doubtful impact of programs: There are currently nearly
100 safety net programs in Nicaragua, ranging from food assistance, social infrastracture and
- 3 -



programs for special target groups to rural development, with a total cost of approximately US$
210 million per year (or 10 percent of GDP). The emergence of such a large number of programs
is largely explained by the inability of the GoN to establish priorities and a strategy to guide
donors and NGOs in the 1990s. As a result, interventions are fragrnented, there is dispersion of
efforts, and duplication is common. Regarding existing safety net programs, major shortcomings
include: (i) inadequate or no targeting mechanisms to select beneficiaries, (ii) interventions are not
necessarily the most cost-effective altemative for the problem they intend to address, (iii)
operational inefficiencies that lead to high administrative costs, (iv) absence of monitoring of
performance and of impact evaluations (with the exception of FISE), (v) contradictions among
operational methodologies used by different programs in the same geographic areas, and (vi) in
spite of the sizable amount of resources spent on these programs, some vulnerable groups remain
unprotected (for example, children up to five years of age, illiterate youth) and key interventions
(such as water and sanitation) remain under-funded.
Government Strateev
Poverty Reduction Strategy: The proposed project is in accordance with the recommendations
of the Nicaragua Poverty Assessment (2000), as well as the Government's "Strengthened Poverty
Reduction Strategy", discussed by the Board on December 22, 2000. The strategy is guided by
four principles: (1) continued modernization of the State to increase the impact of social
expenditures by allocating a larger share of the budget to social programs and projects targeted to
the poor, and improving their cost-effectiveness; (2) greater promotion of equity by increasing
access of the poor to the benefits of growth, with special attention to rural communities, women,
indigenous groups, and the inhabitants of the Atlantic Coast; (3) more transparency and
accountability through participatory processes that include targeted communities, beneficiaries
and local leaders; and (4) broader participation by all members of society in the definition,
implementation, and follow-up of this strategy. Within the Government's resource constraints, the
Poverty Reduction Strategy rests on four pillars: (i) broad based economic growth with an
emphasis on productive employment generation and rural development, (ii) greater and better
investment in the human capital of the poor, (iii) better protection for vulnerable populations, and
(iv) the strengthening of institutions and good governance. The proposed project contributes to
the last three principles noted above. It would implement a portion of the poverty reduction
efforts as described in pillars two and three.
First steps towards a Social Protection Strategy: The GoN's Strengthened Poverty Reduction
Strategy defines the role for social protection in Nicaragua to protect and promote the human
capital of the poor and to reduce the costs faced by the poor as the result of economic, natural,
social, or family crises. The absence of such protection often forces the poorest groups to adopt
practices which perpetuate their poverty. Therefore, the GoN proposes to develop a social
protection strategy. In the context of Nicaragua, given the country's level of poverty and
characteristics of vulnerability, this means improving the social safety net based on a clear
categorization of the risks faced by poor households, a definition of the nature of assistance
required to confront these risks, and the design of cost-effective mechanisms to deliver this
assistance. First steps toward meeting this commitment are: i) the new IDB-supported Safety Net
project (Red de Proteccion Social) pilot project within the FISE; and ii) the revised poverty map
- 4 -



2000 developed by the National Statistical Institute (INEC) and FISE, which will enable FISE and
other institutions to improve targeting. The Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (SETEC) has
assumed responsibility for rationalizing the multitude of existing social programs tc, establish a
coherent safety net as part of an overall social protection strategy. During preparalion and
implementation of the proposed project, IDA is supporting SETEC in assessing the present social
safety net, including the identification of key risks faced by the poor and establishing clear
priorities for action, an analysis of the extent to which existing programs meet those risks, and the
development of a proposal for rationalizing existing programs.
Focus on Local Development: Decentralization is an integral part of Nicaragua's public sector
modernization and reform process. There is widespread consensus in Nicaragua that small-scale
infrastructure and social services should increasingly be delivered by local authorities. Local
governments have proven far more responsive to the poor and their needs, as the success of funds
that have supported local decision-making prove. Municipal governments will therefore ultimately
play an important role in opening spaces at the local level for participation and incilusion,
particularly of the poor, inducing critical behavioral changes and shared responsibility. This means
a process of continued strengthening of local governments and their interaction with communities
and local organizations. Nicaragua's decentralization strategy takes into account three basic
principles: flexibility, gradualism and good governance. The Government plans to strengthen
municipalities through development of a better financing scheme, improving their planning and
coordination capacity, and better monitoring and evaluation of performance. The Nicaraguan
Institute for Municipal Strengthening (INIFOM) plays a decisive role in this effort. With support
from the Bank (First and Second Rural Municipal Deveklpment Projects; see Annex 13) and other
donors, INIFOM has recently redefined its role towards a more normative institution, supporting
municipal governments in improving their administrative and service capacity through fiscal
transfers and technical assistance. Beyond strengthening local governments however, there is a
need to empower and enable all local actors to participate and play their part in the local
development process in order to ensure sustainable development. This is where FISE will provide
complementary support in strengthening the interplay of the local actors (local governments,
communities, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and the private sector) to engage in local
development.
FISE' s contributions to human capital development. FISE was created in 1990 to mitigate
the effects of the economic stabilization program following many years of civil war. Its mandate
has since then been amended from providing basic infrastructure and generating employment to
playing a key role in improving living conditions and local development opportunities among the
poorest segments of the country's population. This has been achieved by improvin,g access to, as
well as quality and sustainability of, priority social and economic infrastructure and services in the
poorest areas guided by the mentioned poverty map. An ex-post Impact Evaluaticn carried out in
1999 of FISE subprojects which were completed between 1994 and June 1997 foumd significant
changes in areas benefiting from FISE social infrastructure sub-projects with respect to: (i)
increased primary school enrollment and decreased age for-grade measures; (ii) increased use of
health posts to attend children with diarrhea, however, no impact on health outcomes; (iii)
increased access to water and sanitation services, with increased access to water resulting in
positive impacts on malnutrition. These investments were also found to be generally well-targeted
- 5 -



at both the municipal and household level, although FISE's targeting was found to vary
considerably by type of sub-project (see annex 4).
In the late-90's, FISE introduced a series of innovations supportive of the Government's overall
poverty reduction and decentralization efforts that marked an important evolution beyond FISE's
traditional role as an effective provider of infrastructure investments targeted at the poor. First, in
1998, FISE introduced its Municipal Strengthening Program aimed at actively strengthening local
capacity, in line with Government's decentralization policies supported under the FISE III project
(Cr. 3124-NI) and to be continued under the proposed project. This program is built on four
pillars (i) support for municipalities and communities to implement a participatory planning
processes at the municipal level, (ii) capacity building for communities throughout the project
cycle, (iii) installation of a preventive maintenance fund, and (iv) capacity building for local
governments in subproject management (see annex 13). It created a basis for FISE's role as an
important actor in the Government's decentralization efforts.
Second, FISE expanded its menu beyond its "traditional" product line of social and economic
infrastructure projects through the development of the new Safety Net Project (Red de Proteccion
Social), which provides cash transfers to families below the extreme poverty line, conditional
upon families' investment in the health and education of their children. With this new focus, FISE
has established itself not only as an important actor in promoting and protecting the human capital
of the poor, but also as a leader in the provision of innovative mechanisms for Nicaragua's social
safety net.
Through the proposed project, FISE would play an important role in many of the PRSP's key
initiatives, including: promoting decentralization, deepening the reform of public institutions,
establishing an effective safety net, and addressing the needs of currently underserved highly
vulnerable groups.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project would be in part a follow-up of IDA's earlier successful social investment
fund projects (Cr. 2434-NI, 2767-NI and 3124-NI), which have supported FISE in providing
poverty-targeted, priority social and economic infrastructure, based on community demand and
beneficiary participation. Learning from the FISE Impact Evaluation carried out in 1999 (see
Annex 4), the proposed project would focus particularly on the following issues:
Improve access and quality of basic infrastructure and services: As the unmet need for
infrastructure is still large, the project would continue to assist the Government in improving
access to and quality of social and economic infrastructure and services targeted particularly to
the poorest communities and most vulnerable population groups by financing improvements/
expansion of small-scale basic infrastructure and social service sub-projects. Based on its ability
(i) to operate efficiently (operating costs amount to 11.5 percent of disbursements) and on a
massive scale (implementation capacity is currently US $45 million annually, generating 14,000
jobs [full time equivalents] per year), and (ii) to mobilize and channel successfully external funds
to priority small scale investments, FISE has established itself as the single most important agency
for the provision of basic infrastructure for poor communities in rural areas in Nicaragua.
- 6 -



Improve coordination at central and local levels: In a context of widespread vulnerability and
limited resources it is crucial to operate within a coherent framework and in synergy with other
actors. This requires FISE to work with all stakeholders (central and local government agencies,
local delegates of line ministries, communities, NGOs, private sector), including witfh parallel
Bank- and IDB-supported operations in education, health, municipal development (INIFOM) and
private sector development (e.g., Nicaragua Competitiveness LIL). In view of substantial
inter-institutional coordination and cooperation problems in earlier years, especially with central
government ministries, the implementation arrangements provide for stronger cooperation at both
the central and local government levels. These include: (a) agreement with the Ministry of
Education (MED). FISE and MED have carried out a joint evaluation of the APRENDE project
experience. Based on this evaluation, FISE is reviewing sub-project design and implementation
features of education infrastructure sub-projects. In addition, FISE will work jointly with the
MED in developing a country-wide school map for future investment purposes; (b) agreement
with the Ministry of Health (MINSA). FISE is reviewing with MINSA ways of promoting more
explicitly the modernization of the health sector in the delivery of services in rural areas. FISE
would preferably finance health facilities if they are accompanied by change management
processes as developed by the Health Sector Modernization Program supported by the Bank and
IDB. In principle, FISE would only finance rehabilitation and replacements (but without
expansion) of ambulatory health facilities, so as not to add to the burden of MINSA to cover
recurrent costs. Furthermore, options to cooperate more systematically with NGOs; in the finance,
management and provision of services in health posts and centers will be explored; (c) specific
cooperation arrangements with the National Water and Sanitation Institute (INAA) and the water
enterprise (ENACAL). Based on an extensive training program for FISE with regard to
water/sanitation sub-projects, jointly supported by the Bank and KfW, the present agreement and
implementation practices will be reviewed and criteria for financing sanitation projects (which
FISE ceased to finance as a result of poor targeting results found by the Impact Evaluation) will
be developed; and (d) a detailed cooperation agreement with INIFOM to ensure uniform
strengthening of local governments in managing subproject implementation (see annex 13).
Strengthen local capacity: Furthermore, in close cooperation with the Bank-supported Second
Rural Municipal Development Project, the project would strengthen local capacity by expanding
FISE's "Municipal and Community Strengthening Program". During its pilot phase (1998-2000),
the program achieved broad participation of local actors in planning, managing, supervising and
maintaining sub-projects. To date, nine pilot municipalities manage the full sub-project cycle.
Based on this experience and in coordination with INIFOM, FISE is now aiming at building
capacity in up to 40 municipalities to manage the entire sub-project cycle during its upcoming
program 2001-2004. Furthermore, FISE and INIFOM are coordinating to support up to 100
municipalities in a participatory micro-planning process to define priority investments at the local
level.
Improve coherence of the social safety net: There is an urgent need to strengtihen the safety net
and its information basis, given only marginally declining poverty figures and declining donor
funding for Nicaragua. The Bank is supporting SETEC in carrying out an assessment of the
country's social safety net programs. This assessment will enable Government - in consultation
- 7 -



with civil society - to make informed decisions for setting priorities and rationalizing the safety
net. To further develop new innovative approaches for improving the living conditions of the
poorest and most vulnerable, as well as the social capital of communities, an innovation fund
would be established and managed by FISE.
A strategic choice has been made to locate the project within FISE based on the positive
experience with the institution to date in terms of improving the quality of basic services and
strengthening local development. In addition, through its location in FISE, the project creates an
opportunity to support the Government in developing a coherent social safety net as part of a
social protection strategy. FISE is an ideal candidate to implement the project for three main
reasons. First, relevant sector agencies neither have the capacity nor should manage such
small-scale infrastructure sub-projects, but should concentrate on developing policies, norms and
large, specialized investments. Second, FISE has proven to be an effective and efficient finance
and delivery mechanism for community-based interventions, as documented in the Implementation
Completion Reports for Credits 2434-NI (Sec.M97-122 of April 11, 1997) and 2767-NI (Report
No. 18657-NI of December 1998), the IDA-managed Impact Evaluation as well as the
FISE-managed Institutional Analysis and Cost-Efficiency Studies, all completed in early-2000.
Third, FISE has shown the willingness and capacity to be flexible in response to identified
shortcomings and new challenges, as indicated by its reaction to the Hurricane Mitch disaster, its
efforts to strengthen municipalities and communities in managing the sub-project cycle and by
introducing the new cash transfer program targeted to the poorest (Safety Net Program).
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1. Subproject financing: This component would enable FISE to continue to support a wide
range of small-scale subprojects for the expansion/improvement of basic social and economic
infrastructure and social assistance projects.Training for communities in organization, supervision,
operation and maintenance of these facilities would also be provided, with emphasis on training
for the administration and operation of water projects. Only subprojects identified through a
municipal planning process, and meeting the technical, financial, economic, social and
environmental criteria (specified in the Operational Manual) would be eligible for financing.
Special attention would be given to four areas identified as needing attention in recent
evaluations: (i) improving the quality of infrastructure investments to ensure that investments will
lead to improved service delivery; (ii) coordinating with service providers to ensure adequate
supply-side interventions, notably in the health sector; (iii) ensuring community participation
throughout the project cycle; and (iv) addressing the specific needs of the indigenous and
Afro-Nicaraguan population groups.
2. Strengthening local capacity: In light of the important and increasing role that local
governments and communities play in local development, this component would finance training,
equipment and technical assistance for local government officials, local community based
organizations and the private sector (e.g., local construction firms) through FISE's municipal and
community strengthening prograrn. The main activities of this program are the participatory local
- 8 -



planning process and the transfer of functions and responsibilities for subproject management to
municipalities, either directly or through regional FISE offices.
3. Developing a coherent social safety net:
a. Strengthening the capacity to design Nicaragua's social safety net in terms of policies and
operations. This would include technical assistance, training, study tours, and consensus building
workshops to: (i) gather and review empirical information on the adequacy of safeiy net
programs; (ii) identify areas of necessary changes; and (iii) initiate implementation of key reform
elements. Continuous participation of a broad variety of stakeholders will be essential. To support
the Government in achieving these goals, there are two major functions which would be
strengthened under this component: (i) the development of a Social Safety Net strategy, and (ii)
better management of the country's public investment program,, including monitoring and
evaluation of social safety net programs. Currently, responsibility for these two fanctions resides
in two departments of the SETEC. In case the SETEC were to be reconfigured under a new
government, these functions and responsibilities would still remain within the Government's
domain; the component has thus been designed flexibly to respond to any institutional changes.
b. Social Safety Net Innovation Fund: Nicaragua's currently fragmented social safety net does
not have an avenue for testing new, more effective safety net measures for poverty reduction. If
FISE is to expand its role beyond traditional social investment fund activities, a logical approach
would be to first test initiatives on a pilot basis, as FISE has done in the past with all new
interventions. The proposed Innovation Fund would finance pilot social safety net- interventions
with a special focus on extremely poor and vulnerable groups. Two activities would be eligible for
financing under the Fund:
(i) Pilot social safety net interventions for extremely poor, vulnerable groups by supporting
FISE's Safety Net program. This subcomponent would strengthen the program's focus in areas
that have been identified by the safety net assessment as a major gap in the country's safety net
such as Early Childhood Development including nutrition, youth etc.. Furthermore, it would
emphasize the importance of an adequate supply side response in terms of health/nutrition and
education services. The subcomponent would include analytical work to strengthen the ongoing
safety net program and, based on this work finance specific projects to test methodologies and
approaches in working with specific target groups. The activities would include pilot-tests of
targeting at the household level.
(ii) Social assistance projects targeted to highly vulnerable groups. This subcomponent would
foster the development of innovative approaches to address the needs of key vulnerable groups,
providing financing for proposals submitted by NGOs, community organizations, the private
sector, etc., on the basis of an Operations Manual to being developed by FISE. The social
assistance sub-projects would seek to complement the types of sub-projects traditionally financed
by FISE, but in addition they would target population groups such as street children, youth at
risk, poor disabled children, ethnic minority groups, elderly, female-headed households etc. which
- according to the FISE impact evaluation - have not been adequately reached by FISE
interventions. Eligible areas for financing would be for example mother and child shelters,
-9-



initiatives to improve nutrition of poor children, hygiene education combined with water
sub-projects, and recreational activities for youth at risk etc.
All sub-projects financed by the Innovation Fund would require a no objection from the Bank and
include a social assessments, a methodology for evaluation of the sub-projects and clear
indicators. The project would provide resources for an external review of the interventions. The
FISE's Social Safety Net program is undergoing a rigorous evaluation by the International Food
Program Research Institute (IFPRI) in 2001. No initiatives associated with the Social Safety Net
project will be piloted until the project evaluation is completed and found to be positive.
4. Project Management. This component would provide institutional strengthening for FISE,
including resources for TA, equipment, vehicles, training (including study tours), financing for the
Living Standard Measurement Survey (LSMS), external audits and monitoring and evaluation
measures.
Ind icve               Bank-      % of
co; ;Xt;>mponent  :  A      SW-or    C; sts          % Of    financing   Bank-
______________: _____________ a____________ ::  $M )  Total   (US$M)    financing
1. Subproject financing            Social Funds       102.40       75.3     47.50       79.2
2. Strengthening local capacity     Decentralization    7.50        5.5      3.10        5.2
3. Developing a coherent Social Safety   Other Social   2.00        1.5      2.00        3.3
Net.                                Protection
a. Institutional strengthening for policy
analysis and formulation
b. Establishing an Innovation Fund  Social Assistance    5.00       3.7       5.00       8.3
4. Project Management               Social Funds        14.40      10.6       0.00       0.0
a) operational costs
b) Technical assistance, training,  Social Funds        4.70        3.5       2.40       4.0
vehicles and equipment, including
financing for LSMS, monitoring and
evaluation assistance, and external
audits
Total Project Costs                  136.00      100.0     60.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                    136.00     100.0      60.00      100.0
- 1 0 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Support for decentralization: During project implementation, an increasing share of FISE's
processing responsibilities would be taken over by the municipalities, in line with tbe
Government's policies to promote decentralization and strengthen local capacity. In this context,
FISE will closely coordinate its activities with INIFOM based on an inter-institutional agreement
signed in October 2000 and a related operational directive.
Improved coordination with line ministries: An important conclusion from the FISE impact
evaluation is that basic infrastructure only improves living conditions if matched with quality
supply side services provided by the health and education sector. Coordination between ministries
and FISE has been deficient, and is only expected to improve with a major effort of all parties.
FISE is presently renegotiating the framework agreements with MED and MINSA. A workplan
for cooperation with INIFOM has been agreed. A general agreement with INAA/ENACAL,
which was signed in 1999, is in place and working fairly well.
Reviewing the safety net: The assessment of the social safety net, currently undeiway with
support from the Bank, seeks to build a solid basis for improving the coherence, effectiveness and
efficiency of policies and programs in this sector. Government will be able to take important
decisions for reviewing the present system, including rationalization of programs and introduction
of a monitoring and evaluation system to meet the goals of its Poverty Reduction Strategy.
3. Benefits and target population:
Through the project, especially the poor would gain improved access to small-scale social and
economic infrastructure and social assistance projects. The use of a poverty map allows for
geographic targeting and FISE's MIS would facilitate close monitoring to ensure that the largest
share of financing goes to the population living below the poverty line. FISE's per capita
investment in "extreme poor" municipalities is currently four times higher than in municipalities
with "medium" poverty. For the next program, this ratio would be expected to become even more
favorable for "extreme poor" municipalities. The new poverty map - reviewed with support from
the Bank - will enable local governments to target the poor even within municipalities, since the
new map provides poverty estimates at the sub-municipal level.
The Innovation Fund would predominantly benefit vulnerable groups. It would act as a laboratory
for promising innovations with potential for improving the social safety net through well-targeted
and cost-effective interventions.
- 11 -



4. Institutional and inplementation arrangements:
The proposed project would be implemented over a three-year period, and would be managed by
FISE, which continues to benefit from strong management. FISE is the only social fimd in the
region which has not been affected, so far, by changes in government, and this has led to a cadre
of well-qualified, experienced, and respected managers. FISE has shown considerable capacity to
process a growing portfolio of increasingly complex sub-projects, and has played a central role in
responding to Hurricane Mitch. This process has been, and is being, assisted by substantial
technical assistance provided by IDA (under Cr. 2434-NI, 2767-NI, 3142-NI and during present
project preparation), IDB (including in the context of the current preparation of its new loan),
Swedish SIDA (decentralization) and KfW (mainly in water supply and decentralization). FISE's
sub-project processing has improved on a number of occasions, benefiting from a variety of
studies, including the above-mentioned Impact Evaluation and cost-effectiveness studies,
beneficiary assessments and technical assistance in adjusting the various steps of the project cycle.
The allocation of FISE's resources would be based on the new poverty map. As done in the
past, FISE would again assign in its new program funds to municipalities according to their level
of poverty. However, in a departure from the last program, the municipalities would only be able
to access 70 percent of this ex-ante assignation automatically. The remaining 30 percent would be
conditional on the municipalities' performance (maintenance of existing facilities, efforts to
strengthen participation, etc.). A satisfactory concept for measuring the performance has been
presented to the Bank. It was agreed that the 30 percent flexible ex-ante allocation can only be
allocated to municipalities of the same poverty category to avoid re-distribution from extreme
poor to less poor municipalities.
In addition, US $5 million of the sub-project allocation of the proposed project would cover the
gap of the ex-ante allocation of the former program 1998 - 2001, to make up for the gap that was
caused by allocating funds under Credit 3142-NI to disaster mitigation measures in the aftermath
of Hurricane Mitch.
In a departure from earlier practice, FISE has started to delegate the responsibility for sub-project
management to qualified municipalities by decentralizing processes and resources. In 1998, FISE
initiated a pilot program in nine municipalities who received technical assistance and resources to
manage the entire project cycle for sub-projects equal to or less than US $100,000. Based on the
positive experience with regional teams in the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch, in 1999 FISE
established its first regional office in Matagalpa which shares subproject management with the
neighboring municipalities for subprojects up to a value of US $100,000. FISE is considering
establishing further offices, as well as an expanded role for those offices. The remainder of
municipalities is still served by FISE headquarters in Managua. Building on this experience, FISE
has developed a concept for decentralizing the management of subprojects. It is expected that, by
2004, up to 40 municipalities will have reached the capacity to manage the project cycle
independently, with FISE assuming the role of a second-tier financing agency.
FISE will continue and expand its program of Participatory Micro-Planning (MPP), which it
started on a pilot basis in 1998. The MPP aims at obtaining maximum participation of
- 12-



communities and stakeholders in the municipal planning and selection of sub-projects to be funded
with FISE and other sources. An evaluation of the MPP, carried out jointly by the Bank and KfW
in late-1 999, revealed that the MPP successfully achieved these goals. However, the MPP in most
cases was seen as a planning exercise to access funds from FISE and not as an instrmnent to
improve overall planning at the municipal level. The Bank is supporting a process in which FISE,
INIFOM and other relevant actors review the methodology and develop a unified operational
approach to participative municipal planning that would be used nationwide. An operational
manual for the municipal planning process has been agreed upon by the interested parties. In its
new program, FISE, in coordination with INIFOM and others, will ensure a participatory
municipal planning process in up to 100 municipalities following the agreed methodology. It has
been agreed with FISE that, under the proposed project, subprojects could only be funded if they
are prioritized in a municipal investment plan based on a transparent, participatory planning
exercise.
FISE would also continue to strengthen the implementation of the Preventive Mainitenance
Fund (PMF), which was established on a pilot basis in 1997 to ensure funding for preventive
maintenance of completed education and health sub-projects. The PMF is funded, one-third each,
by the line ministries, the municipalities, and FISE (from central government funds). Since
December 1999, NGOs and others have carried out community maintenance training for school
councils and health committees in 140 of the country's 150 municipalities. As a result, the PMF
has become increasingly operationally useful. Accountability of the local governments has proven
to be satisfactory. Recently, FISE has opened up the PMF to infrastructure (schools and health
facilities) not financed by FISE.
FISE is exploring possibilities for cooperation with the private sector to "adopt" schools (and
possibly health posts) to ensure quality service delivery. The American Chamber of Commerce
(AMCHAM) recently started such a scheme. FISE and AMCHAM agreed to develop a concept
for a more systematic involvement of the private sector in service delivery of projects financed by
FISE.
There are two key functions for the development of a coherent Social Safety Net in Nicaragua:
the development of a social protection strategy and better management of Nicaragua's public
investment program in the social areas, including monitoring and evaluation of social safety net
programs. Currently, these two functions are housed in two departments of the SETEC: the
Department of Social Policy Coordination and the Department of Public Investment.
The proposed Innovation Fund would be managed by FISE, and the Bank would offer "no
objections" to proposed subprojects to be financed by the Innovation Fund. An operational manual
will serve as guidance to implement the social assistance part of the Fund. The part of the Fund
that would strengthen the Safety Net Program would be executed according to guidelines
established by the program. During appraisal it was agreed that the Bank would only finance
subprojects to deepen or possibly expand the pilot after its evaluation and in the case of positive
results.
- 13 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Since its establishment, FISE has remained unparalleled in Nicaragua as an efficient delivery
mechanism for small-scale social and economic investment and social service projects. This was
also confirmed by FISEs rapid and substantial response after the serious damage caused by
Hurricane Mitch in November 1998. Of course, alternatively, as mentioned above, the sector
investments could be channeled through the responsible line agencies, but part of the public
sector modernization concept is that line ministries should concentrate their efforts on their core
task such as developing policies, norms and regulations, and involve more public or private
institutions to deliver services. Therefore, it is not desirable that line ministries go back to micro
managing small-scale infrastructure projects. FISE's comparative advantages regarding the
implementation of small-scale projects were confirmed by the findings of the Impact Evaluation,
the Cost-efficiency studies, as well as the Implementation Completion Reports of the previous
FISE projects (see Annex 4).
INIFOM is responsible for developing the administrative capacity of local governments. INIFOM
is currently going through a transition process from a provider of technical assistance and project
financing to a more normative agency, concentrating on providing policies and standards for local
government development. INIFOM's new role includes the provision of a Municipal Development
Fund that responds to the need for improving the current system of fiscal transfers. The Bank is
assisting this Fund on a pilot basis through its Second Rural Municipal Development Project. The
fiscal transfers will enable local governments to improve their administrative capacity and service
delivery. INIFOM in its new function and FISE as the main provider of small-scale infrastructure
and incubator for innovative safety net interventions are working in a complementary way to
strengthen the capacity of municipal governments. While INIFOM seeks to improve the overall
performance of municipal government (financial management, budgeting, revenue collection,
cadaster, etc.), it is FISE's task to deliver small-scale sub-projects for poverty reduction in an
effective and efficient manner. To achieve this, FISE has started to develop a partnership with
municipal governments. For the municipal governments to play an adequate role in this
partnership, they have to develop technical and administrative capacities, e.g., in planning and
project management. The responsibility for building this capacity officially rests with INIFOM,
but due to the above-mentioned transition process, INIFOM is at present not able to comply with
this huge task. Meanwhile, FISE - in coordination with INIFOM - has decided to strengthen local
governments in the two areas related to small-scale projects: participatory planning and project
management. It is expected that, for the next planning cycle (2004/5), INIFOM will provide the
Nicaraguan municipalities with sufficient support to carry out the participatory planning process.
- 14 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
,_______________  ,,  g(Bank-Afnancedi projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Poor social infrastructure and need to  Third Social Investment Fund  HS         S
ensure sustainability of completed  (Cr. 3142-NI)
subprojects
Rural poverty and environmental  Rural Municipalities (Cr.         S             S
degradation                      2918-NI)
Rural poverty and environmental  New: Second Rural Municipal
degradation                      Development (PE-P055823)
Excessive centralization and exclusive  Health Modernization project  S          S
supply of health services by public    (Cr. 3084-NI)
sector
Poor efficiency, equity, and quality of  Basic Education Cr. 2689-NI  S          S
basic education
Poor efficiency, equity, and quality of  Second Basic Education (Cr.  S          S
basic education                   3281-NI)
Deficient road planning and      Road Rehabilitation and           S             S
maintenance                      Maintenance (Cr. 2871-NI)
High vulnerability to natural disasters  New: Vulnerability Reduction
and Disaster Management
(PE-P064916)
Other development agencies
Atlantic Coast facing rather unique    IDB- Atlantic Coast Local
ethnic, economic, environmental and    Development Program
cultural problems                 (managed by FISE)
Conditional income transfer to extreme IDB- Social Protection
poor                              Network (managed by FISE)
Poor social and economic infrastructure IDB- Social Infiastructure
Investment Program-Phase IV
(through FISE)
Poor social and economic infrastructure IDB- Program to Fight Poverty
and Strengthen Local
Development (through FISE,
new)
Poor social and economic          KfW, Programs FISE I-IV
infrastructure, decentralization, disaster
mitigation
Poor social and economic infrastructure OPEC (through IDB and FISE)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
-15-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed project reflects the lessons of earlier projects, as well as from international
experience with social funds. Those lessons are mentioned in the ICRs of the first two
IDA-supported FISE projects (Cr. 2434-NI and 2767-NI), OED reports on the same projects, the
major Impact Evaluation and the Cost-Effectiveness Study mentioned above, as well as a host of
Bank staff papers and other papers prepared on social funds, including at the most recent Social
Fund conference held at the Bank in June 2000. Equally important, the design reflects the findings
and recommendations of a FISE-logical framework seminar (IDB-funded) held in Montelimar,
Nicaragua in June 2000; this meeting was attended by representatives of FISE, INIFOM, SETEC,
the decentralization commission, NGOs, and the major donors, as well as various mayors and
technical staff from municipalities. The main policy, organizational, and operational lessons
suggest the following requirements in order to maintain efficiency and improve sustainability:
Consistency with national development strategies. Efficiency of operational policies and
procedures, as well as overall program effectiveness, depend upon a clear understanding of FISE's
role in the overall development strategy framework. The new poverty reduction strategy is such
framework. It is particularly important for FISE to clarify its future role in the context of this
strategy and the decentralization strategy of the country. The project will support FISE in defining
its role in the overall poverty reduction strategy, and it will support Government to develop a
more coherent safety net in which FISE will most likely be an important actor.
Clear and limited objectives. FISE, like all social investment funds, needs to maintain clear and
limited objectives. When objectives are unclear, or when social funds become responsible for
numerous (and sometimes conflicting) tasks, efficiency and effectiveness can become
compromised. FISE has managed to find a balance between its traditional tasks and new
challenges. However, the stretch between new tasks and regular operations has become
increasingly difficult. Thus the project design recognizes that "Subproject Financing" will remain
the core activity of the project.
Reaching the poor. The FISE Impact Evaluation clearly showed that FISE interventions are
reaching the poor. FISE has strengthened its poverty focus in the present program by allocating
considerable more resources per capita to municipalities with extreme and high poverty. This
trend will also be followed under the new program, which resource allocation will be based on the
new, recently revised Poverty Map. However, the Impact Evaluation also showed that FISE
interventions do not adequately reach the poorest of the poor. The proposed project therefore
introduces an innovation fund that would try out different potential approaches (safety net
program and social assistance projects) for piloting interventions targeted to the poorest and most
vulnerable groups in the country.
Potentialfor innovation and laying groundwork for future reform. Notwithstanding the fact
that the project focuses on subproject financing as FISE's "core business", it also responds to the
recognition that social funds can serve effectively as incubators for innovation, and can
demonstrate through practice the potentials for and directions of strategic reform in key sectors
affecting the poor. In this respect, the project's innovation fund and indigenous peoples pilot
- 16-



program would focus attention on drawing lessons, even as they realize immediate impacts, in
areas viewed as critical to address poverty in Nicaragua over the longer term.
Key institutional characteristics. The project would place due emphasis on the institutional
characteristics that are considered most critical for the success of social investment funds: (i)
operational efficiency and flexibility; (ii) transparency and accountability, which are bolstered by
clear resource allocation criteria and operational guidelines, reliable independent audits and
evaluations, an effective management information system, and vigilant supervision by external
financing agencies; (iii) clear and simple procurement and disbursement procedures; (iv)
competitive salaries and freedom from normal government personnel restrictions, in order to
permit recruitment/retention of highly qualified staff; (v) proper targeting mechanisms; (vi)
integration of the environmental and gender viewpoints into operations; and (vii) a system of
monitoring and evaluation activities.
Sustainability. Subproject sustainability requires a participatory process that actively involves
communities and municipalities in defining their needs and priorities and throughouat the project
cycle. This approach does not only secure community commitment to subproject operation and
maintenance, but also contributes to active local development. However, to be full,y successful,
subproject sustainability requires the coordinated support of communities, local governments, and
line ministries as designed in the Preventive Maintenance Fund.
Focus on service delivery. An important result of the FISE Impact Evaluation is that FISE
subprojects had no measurable impact on health outcomes. Two reasons may contribute to this
result: (i) the quality of the services offered in the newly established facilities did not improve due
to constraints in qualified staff, materials and equipment, and (ii) the demand for the services
provided did not increase. The proposed project addresses both issues by (i) closer coordination
particularly with the Ministry of Health, and (ii) piloting interventions through the Innovation
Fund that would increase the demand for health services.
Role of local governments. Local governments are becoming increasingly important in
Nicaragua to promote local development and in the country's effort to reduce the severe poverty.
They have a decisive role to play in ensuring participatory priority-setting, delivering services to
the communities, and contributing to better coordination at the local level. FISE has
demonstrated that it is possible to strengthen local governments' capacities to cany out these
functions. It will be a challenge for FISE to transfer responsibility for participatory planning and
project implementation to a larger number of local governments. Intensive and sustained
coordination with other actors involved in local/municipal development (like INIFOM) will be
required in order to achieve more widespread and sustained strengthening of municipal capacities.
Future role of FISE. The notion that social funds are temporary needs to be reevaluated in
general, and in Nicaragua in particular. FISE's creation 10 years ago as a temporary agency was
based on the assumption that the economic adjustment program was of a limited duration, that
economic growth would soon pick up and reduce poverty considerably, and that the line
ministries would be strengthened to prepare and implement programs and projects targeted to the
poor, so that there would be no long-term need for a social investment fund. Hovwever, chronic
- 17 -



poverty continues to be pervasive, and constraints on government expenditures and economic
activity that could adversely affect the poor are likely to persist for some time. Moreover, FISE's
role in efficiently financing small social and economic infrastructure on a massive scale particularly
in poor areas of the country remains relevant and indispensable as pointed out by the recent
Nicaragua Poverty Assessment and the Poverty Reduction Strategy. It is not clear that this
function would be better executed exclusively by traditional line ministries, whose capacities in
this area have not improved significantly. FISE has also shown that it can play an important role
as a catalyst to strengthen local governments and their abilities to foment participatory processes
for identifying, implementing, and sustaining priority investments. Also, FISE has piloted new
initiatives like the Safety Net Program that proves its ability to create innovative interventions
beyond its core business. Thus, the comparative advantages of FISE are likely to remain relevant
for quite some time.
Preparedness for contingency responsibilities during disaster. The effective roles played by
FISE following Hurricane Mitch underscored the fact that social funds can be effective
instruments to help governments respond to natural disasters. To be better prepared for such
situations in the future, FISE and the Disaster Management project teams (in Nicaragua and in the
Bank) have established mechanisms of coordination with the aim of improving disaster
preparedness at the community / municipal level.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
  Borrower commitment has been amply demonstrated by the importance attached by the
Government to FISE and its regular counterpart contributions. It is also reflected explicitly in
the Government's PRSP;
* FISE's management has been actively pursuing changes aimed at maintaining a transparent
operation and increasing efficiency;
= Support for FISE among stakeholders has been high as demonstrated by beneficiary
assessments, consultations with different actors (e.g., mayors) and studies carried out in the
past and during preparation (e.g. study on cooperation FISE/NGOs, 2000); and
* The inclusion of the social safety net component is based on a request for assistance from
SETEC. During the elaboration of the Poverty Reduction Strategy, it became clear to
Government that more attention has to be paid to the coherence of social programs to have an
impact on poverty.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
* Comprehensive understanding of overall poverty reduction strategy, contributions to
understanding poverty through Poverty Assessment (2000), review of poverty map, FISE
Impact Evaluation, etc.;
* Experience with decentralization and municipal development, and coordination in this area;
* Extensive experience in monitoring and evaluation systems and management information
systems;
* Mobilization of high-quality technical assistance for institutional improvement and innovation
under the project, e.g. environment, indigenous people, local participatory planning;
- 18-



*  Ability to mobilize international resources (as evidenced by co-financing arrangements) and to
encourage donor coordination;
*  Significant experience in designing social protection strategies and operations; and
*  IDA's broader program of assistance to the social sectors in Nicaragua (health, education,
social protection) provides an excellent context to improve coordination among social sectors
and clarify roles of the institutions involved.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
From 1991 to 1998, FISE investments constituted on average approximately 40 percent of total
social sector public investments. With a yearly turn over of nearly US$ 45 million, F1ISE is the
largest supplier of small-scale social and economic infrastructure projects in the coumtry. In order
to measure the impact of this significant investment, FISE with support from the Bank has carried
out an Impact Evaluation in 1999/2000 whose results point to the fact that FISE investments in
general are well-targeted, and have a positive impact on poor households' human capital
formation (see Annex 4).
In addition to the Impact Evaluation, FISE with support from the Bank, carried out: a
cost-effectiveness study, which compares the cost-effectiveness of FISE in implementing
small-scale infrastructure projects as compared to other social investment agencies. The study
confronted major methodological problems in defining the comparators because the process of
project implementation as well as the products (infrastructure) were found to be diiYicult to
compare. This is mainly due to the impossibility of defining quality in quantitative terms. Overall,
the study found that FISE does show higher costs than its comparators, the main reasons being (i)
use of higher quality materials, (ii) a more defined and comprehensive project design, (iii) remote
location of many FISE sub-projects in areas of extreme poverty, and (iv) lower community
contributions (except for health facilities). The study identifies especially the education sector
sub-projects as being more expensive. The results of the study and possible implications for FISE
sub-project processing were discussed and corrective action agreed during appraisEl. Provisions
have been made by FISE to increase the contributions of communities and municipalities to
subproject costs. Furthermore, FISE has participated in an evaluation of the APRENDE
education project in which communities successfully manage the implementation of small-scale
infrastructure. FISE will experiment with this methodology with resources from a Japanese grant
for Community Development with the objective to lower implementation costs of education
projects.
In accordance with its Operational Manual and complementary guidelines and subject to minimum
requirements agreed with the relevant sector agencies, FISE uses detailed technical[ criteria,
standard designs, and simple economic criteria (e.g., cost-per-beneficiary calculations) to
determine subproject economic viability (see Annex 4). This includes application cif a
comprehensive list of unit costs by type of subproject and by region, which is updated at least
-19-



twice a year. In response to experience with water/sanitation projects, FISE has developed a
detailed economic evaluation methodology for water supply sub-projects.
FISE's design also fosters allocative efficiencies: through the promotion of participatory local
planning processes, communities allocate scarce resources across sectors, thereby ensuring that
such resources are applied optimally, in response to local priorities.
At an average of about 11 percent of disbursements between 1998 and 2000, FISE administrative
costs are consistent with the levels observed in other social funds, which usually range from 5 to
20 percent.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Funding of maintenance of completed education and health sub-projects would be provided under
the PMF, with equal funding from the responsible line ministries, the municipalities, and FISE.
Maintenance would be managed by maintenance committees of the users/beneficiaries, which are
to be established as a condition for funding. In the case of water supply and sanitation
sub-projects, the users/beneficiaries would be fully responsible for operation and maintenance of
completed systems, and user committees would charge user fees.
In the past, FISE has not had an official policy regarding beneficiary contributions. It has now
been agreed that FISE would monitor the contributions from communities and municipalities, and,
based on the data, percentages would be agreed upon according to the level of poverty - with
poorer communities and municipalities contributing less than richer ones.
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal implications of the project for the Government would include: (a) part of the
administrative costs of FISE over the project period; and (b) under the FMP, partial funding of
maintenance of completed school and health facilities. Maintenance of completed sub-projects is
estimated to average about 2 percent of investment costs, which would be borne one third each
from the FMP, the municipalities and the line ministries (see Annex 13). Throughout the years,
FISE has received its government contributions generally in full and on time. In general, FISE
would finance rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure which would not add on to
recurrent costs of the responsible line ministries. Only in exceptional cases and with explicit
approval from ministries, new infrastructure would be financed.
The project's fiscal implications, both during and after implementation, are expected to be
manageable. Fiscal implications during project implementation would include project counterpart
funding requirements (including FISE operating costs and FMP contribution) established by IDA
and other cofinanciers. These are estimated at about US $14.4 million over the project period, and
about US $1.5 million in additional recurrent cost per year thereafter. Government counterpart
funding under FISE III has been mostly adequate and timely.
- 20 -



All sub-projects have to be endorsed by the relevant line ministry, subprojects that entail an
increase in Government expenditure on recurrent costs (e.g., incremental staff) require prior
endorsement by the respective line ministry in written form. In the case of water/sanitation
sub-projects, the user committees would charge user fees for operation and maintenance.
3. Technical:
The project is a follow-up project that builds on substantial experience. FISE is the most efficient
government agency in Nicaragua for the construction of basic social infrastructure. It works with
the permanent public agencies, both at the central and local levels, to upgrade planning and
operational cooperation, including maintenance of completed facilities. Its internal procedures, set
out in its Operational Manual, have proved to be effective in targeting the poor, ensuiring the
technical viability and quality of investments, and guaranteeing transparency. The Manual is
currently being updated to reflect recent recommendations for improvements in policies and
operations, resulting from the new challenges in decentralizing the sub-project cycle towards the
municipal governments, the Impact Evaluation, the Procurement Audit and a host of other studies
and technical assistance.
FISE commissions annually a technical audit of its subprojects which examines the quality of
construction and the compliance with technical standards. T'he results of these audits are reflected
in frequent adjustments in procedures and norms.
4. Institutional:
With the development of a PRSP, the Government of Nicaragua has made a decisive step towards
a more coordinated and integrated development policy. As mentioned in the strategy, FISE is one
of the important actors for reducing poverty by providing small-scale infrastructure and services
as well as income transfers to the poorest. The project would support FISE develop a mid- and
long-term strategy for the institution in its efforts to position itself in the context of the PRSP.
4.1 Executing agencies:
As described in the section on "institutional and implementation arrangements", the project would
be managed by FISE, which has shown considerable expertise in executing earlier projects. FISE
is currently, with the help of consultants, working on a host of improvements, including on
delegation of responsibilities to municipalities and new project types (e.g., for indigenous
communities), and this is to be reflected in a new, updated Operational Manual. FIS]E has also
carried out an evaluation of the 150 municipalities to ensure that only those meeting agreed,
minimum criteria will be given the opportunity to manage the full or parts of the sub-project cycle.
Training of municipalities and communities would be handled partly by FISE staff and partly by
intermediary organizations, mainly NGOs, which have shown an improved capacity to handle this
critically important component. Rehabilitation and construction of infrastructure would be
contracted out to the private sector, which has proven to be increasingly capable and competitive.
In this respect, it is interesting to note that the decentralization of the project cycle to the 9 pilot
municipalities and the establishment of a regional office of FISE in Matagalpa has increased the
interest and improved the opportunities for smaller, local contractors in competing for contracts.
Costs for project execution have decreased under this modality on average by 9 percent.
- 21 -



4.2 Project management:
Detailed criteria and procedures set out in FISE's Operational Manuals, complementary
guidelines, and PIP, would govern all aspects of project management. Most of the Operational
Manuals ( project evaluation, procurement, finance/administration, supervision etc.) have recently
been revised, or are being revised and have been found satisfactory. The Operational Manuals,
guidelines and PIP could be modified as necessary during project implementation, subject to
agreement with IDA. A comprehensive program of technical assistance under the ongoing FISE
III project assists FISE in strengthening its institutional capacity in all aspects including the
development of operational directives for the decentralization process of the institution.
Experience under FISE II and III projects has shown that FISE's capacity to manage the project is
adequate with the Operational Manuals being the core of institutional stability. Under the
proposed project, funds would be provided to enable FISE to further improve and adjust
operations during the decentralization process.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A recent procurement audit found only minor issues of concern, which have been discussed with
FISE and will now be changed in FISE's procedures. During pre-appraisal, a procurement
specialist carried out a Procurement Capacity Asses,ment (CPA).
4.4 Financial management issues:
A Financial Management Specialist has confirmed FISE's compliance with current Bank standards
concerning the new project financial management arrangements. However, certain actions for
improvement were identified, and are included in the Action Plan presented in the Financial
Management Assessment Report. Under the FISE III operation (3142-NI), FISE complied in full
with its covenanted financial audit requirements. Quarterly operational audits have been also
firnished by FISE. Under the proposed project, quarterly operational audits will be required
under terms of reference acceptable to IDA, which will include audit scope, report content and
due dates. Based on the financial management assessment and considering FISE's strong
management, adequate capacity, established procedures, and experience with Bank lending, the
overall rating under the Bank's LACI guidelines is 4-B. FISE meets the Bank's financial
management requirements but, due to pending confirmation of timely preparation of PMRs under
the new decentralized operation, FISE is not yet eligible to disburse on the basis of PMRs.
However, it is expected that FISE would convert to PMR-based disbursments by April 1, 2002.
5. Environmental:               Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
In accordance with OD 4.01, para. 8(d), the project is listed in category FI (financial
interrnediary). The FISE, acting as the financial intermediary, is responsible for sub-project
preparation, screening, and implementation. The majority of sub-projects financed by FISE will
- 22 -



fall under environmental Category C, some will fall under Category B; no "A" projects will be
funded. No involuntary resettlement will occur as a result of sub-projects, either duning project
execution or implementation and FISE will not finance projects in protected areas unless it
receives the explicit approval of the governing Environmental Ministry MARENA.
FISE has already established capable staff and adequate procedures to evaluate environmental
risks linked to sub-projects. Under the proposed project, FISE would conduct further training and
sensitization programs, not only for its staff, but also for municipalities and commurities, as part
of the decentralization process. This will be of particular importance for health center, water
supply, sanitation, and solid waste, and access road sub-projects. In addition, the results of the
Swiss-financed environmental and social evaluation of indigenous communities in the Costa
Atlantica will be followed up through the Indigenous Peoples pilot program (see amnex 12)
financed under the proposed project as well as the IDB-supp3rted Atlantic Coast Local
Development project.
During appraisal, it has been agreed with FISE management that the Environmental Unit will be
included in technical discussions related to solid waste management and rural road projects.
Given that these projects have the potential for significant environmental impacts, the Bank has
asked FISE to review the design of these two project types with full participation of the
Environmental Unit in all related technical discussions. The Bank has also required that the pilot
subproject proposals for solid waste and for rural road subprojects be submitted for clearance to
the Bank. Furthermore, the Unit will play a more active part in FISE's decentralization process. A
start will be made by offering a broad based training on environmental issues not only for FISE
headquaters but also for municipal technical staff financed under the ongoing FISE [II operation.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
It has been determined that a separate Environmental Monitoring Plan (EMP) and EA is not
required for the new operation with FISE. This is due to the fact that the SF has had in place
since 1996 an Environmental Unit staffed by three professionals (two ecologists- one of whom is
chief of the Unit- and a civil/environmental engineer). All are involved in site visits and evaluation
of sub-projects. The Unit has also benefitted recently from a consultancy, financed by the IDB,
where the following was completed: (a) promulgation of 12 Environmental Standards (Normas
Ambientales) for the FISE including rural road and waste management subprojects. This is a new
instrument that includes information on physical-environmental conditions for each lype of
sub-project; (b) site selection methodology guide; (c) revised environmental documents and
checklists for each stage of the sub-project cycle; and (d) environmental indicators. These tools
and processes are being incorporated into FISE's environmental evaluation process. A series of
training seminars are now offered by the Unit in implementing these new instruments for FISE
management and technical staff which will be extended to municipal governments participating in
FISE's decentralization efforts.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
- 23 -



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) enviromnental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The Environmental Unit, in conjunction with the Ministry of Environment (MARENA), recently
sent to the Bank for its review five environmental indicators to be included in the FISE's
management information system. These indicators will provide a clearer picture of how the FISE
is complying with the environmental norms. The Bank has reviewed these indicators and found
them to be satisfactory. These indicators will be incorporated into FISE's MIS during the
upcoming review of FISE's monitoring and evaluation system.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Beneficiary Participation. Strong and continued participation of beneficiaries and a wide range
of local stakeholders is key to the success of a Social Investment Fund. In the past, FISE has paid
too much attention to the delivery of high-quality infrastructure sub- projects. This is shifting
now. FISE has learned that involving beneficiaries, local governments and other local groups
improves the quality of the subprojects, brings down costs, and even more importantly, has a
value of its own: sub-projects are now seen as a means to an end which is local development.
Therefore, sub-projects are being processed with strong participation throughout the cycle,
responsibilities are gradually transmitted to local governments and communities/ beneficiaries by
giving them the resources and the know-how necessary to take the new responsibilities.
Furthermore, the Innovation Fund would help FISE to develop new ways of working at the local
level with vulnerable groups that are commonly not reached by pure infrastructure.
Gender Issues. Although women in Nicaragua are well-represented at the highest levels of
government and the private sector, they are still facing a host of, especially, social constraints.
Although, over the years, FISE management has become more aware of the importance of gender
sensitivity in its policies and operations, more needs to be done. A Diagnostic Study of Gender
Issues at FISE, carried out by a consultant in 1999, found that: (i) a change in the gender culture
of FISE was needed and a gender policy should be developed and form part of FISE's Human
Resource Policy, (ii) the instruments and indicators used by FISE for operations are a start
towards developing a gender strategy, and (iii) comprehensive, continuous sensitivity training was
needed that should start in the institution and gradually expand to development partners,
contractors and beneficiaries. The study recommended to develop a gender strategy through
workshops, seminars, training and review of manuals to improve project quality and level of
satisfaction of FISE workers and project beneficiaries.
Based on these recommendations, FISE has started a sensibilization process for gender issues.
Several women are now occupying middle management positions, community training is being
carried out in a more gender sensitive way, gender indicators have been established for
participation in project committees, training, and for the micro-planning process. Furthermore, an
-24-



institutional gender strategy has just recently been approved. With support from a consultancy
financed under the ongoing FISE III project, the respective action plan will be implemented.
Under the proposed project, follow-up work would be supported during the implementation of
the action plan.
Innovation Fund. To improve FISE's support for the poorest and most vulnerable population
groups, the project would finance an Innovation Fund that aims at strengthening the capacity of
FISE in collaboration with local organizations to develop new mechanisms to improve the
country's safety net.
Indigenous People Pilot program. To respond to the emergent needs of Indigenous and
Afro-Nicaraguan populations suffering from extreme poverty in Nicaragua, the project would
support an Indigenous People Development Program (IPDP) in six municipalities of the Atlantic
Coast region and Jinotega (Annex 12). The Program would transfer know-how to communities to
solve their own needs, by focusing on their opportunities, capacities and strengths.Trough this
three-year pilot program, FISE aims at acquiring experience in working with indigenDus groups,
test new contractual procedures, and draw conclusions for its procedures and processes. Towards
the end of the pilot, a concept would be developed on how to carry on the activities financed
under the pilot.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Social funds are demand-driven and thus, by definition, include elements of participalion.
However, as confirmed by various studies, in particular the Impact Evaluation, participation in
FISE-financed activities can be improved. The participatory micro planning process (MPP) is a
step in this direction, and it will be expanded under the next project --no sub-projects will be
considered for municipalities which do not have an MPP or similar agreed arrangement to ensure
participation of all relevant community groups in the planning and selection of sub-projects.
Particular attention has been and will be paid to ensuring participation of women throughout the
whole project cycle (from identification to maintaining the project). In addition, an increasing
number of municipalities will be delegated responsibility for parts of the sub-project cycle.
Finally, the communities will be systematically involved in and held responsible for sub-project
supervision and maintenance.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
In addition to the participation of primary beneficiaries, a wide range of stakeholders is involved
in project preparation:
* NGOs have been consulted, and will be increasingly involved in project planning and
implementation. The Innovation Fund would offer additional possibilities for NGDs to work
with vulnerable groups, an area in which the NGO's long experience will be of particular
advantage. Moreover, the development of a social safety net strategy for the cowutry would
involve intensive consultation with civil society organizations.
*  IDB, KfW, SIDA and other donors are participating in the design of the project, and
implementation will take place in close coordination with them.
* Project design has also been discussed with the relevant line agencies (MINED, MINSA,
- 25 -



INIFOM, INAA/ENACAL), and will be executed in close coordination with those agencies.
*  FISE is currently looking for ways to collaborate with the private sector to improve the
quality of services of social infrastructure. The American Chamber of Commerce and FISE are
working together in setting up a system in which firms can adopt a school and provide it with
whatever supplies it needs to improve the quality of education.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
FISE has a very active "capacity building" department which offers training opportunities to
sub-project committees, NGOs, mayors and technical staff from municipalities, private sector
(project design and external supervisors) and staff from related social sector ministries. In 2000,
FISE has delivered training to more than 9,000 members of project committees, 42 NGOs, 150
private sector employees, and almost 400 staff from municipalities. Special emphasis has been
given to the participation of women who make up for at least 30 percent of the beneficiaries of
the training. Under the proposed project, resources and technical assistance would be provided to
ensure continued emphasis, quality and gender sensitivity of the training. The activities will
continue during the project implementation, which will allow FISE to provide important local
capacity building and therefore promote social development at the community and municipal level.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The FISE Impact Evaluation confirmed that FISE's poverty targeting, based on a poverty map,
was substantially adequate and that the beneficiary households were overall satisfied with the
works, goods, and services provided. In addition, FISE's participatory planning approach does
ensure an increasing "voice" of the poor. However, various improvements will be introduced
aiming at even more and better participation, especially of women, as well as at reaching some of
the most vulnerable groups, including through the Innovation Fund. These improvements will be
measured through FISE's key performance indicators and regular qualitative beneficiary
assessments.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the followin safeguard policies apply to the project?
CY 0   0 00 --->;-   V-000  -_   0Appilcability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)        0 Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                * Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                          0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                           0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)      0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
FISE has paid increasing attention to the needs of its vulnerable indigenous populations in recent
years. A recent IDA-executed and Swiss-funded study on some of these communities in the Costa
Atlantica provided some interesting information on their needs and how to address those. This
- 26 -



will be pursued under the ongoing IDB-funded Atlantic Coast Local Development Program, as
well as under the proposed project's IPDP. In addition, in the context of the social assessment for
this operation, the proposed project would also cover the needs of indigenous populations outside
the Costa Atlantica.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of Social Investment Funds has always been a concern of the donors. In
response, FISE has paid increasing attention to ensuring that there will be satisfactory
arrangements for sub-project operation and maintenance. This now includes the establishment of
user committees, substantial training of the committees and beneficiaries, a detailed agreement
between FISE and the beneficiaries before the project starts and at hand-over, and the operation
of the FMP with equal financial contributions of the line ministries, the
municipalities/communities, and FISE. In Central America, FISE is the first Social Investment
Fund to have such a fund and system in place.
FISE's capacity building efforts will enable local authorities and communities to manage project
execution and maintenance in the future. It will enhance ownership - an important element of
sustainability. Improvements in local govemments' capacity to work with communities and
relevant national authorities will help to ensure adequate operation and maintenance of projects.
At the macro-level, FISE is fully dependent upon government and donor funding. However, the
Government has emphasized on many occasions, and confirmed in its Poverty Reduction Strategy
the importance of FISE in dealing with the country's substantial lack of basic, small-scale
infrastructure and quality services. In coordination with the other major donors of F] SE, the
proposed project would provide institutional support to FISE to develop a proposal for its future
institutional role within the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy, including a proposal for
long-term financing of FISE recurrent expenditure.
The development of a social protection strategy for the country is one of the challenges posed by
the Poverty Reduction Strategy. The outcome of the proposed safety net component would be a
better targeted and more effective safety net which contributes to the sustainability of the
remaining safety net programs.
-27 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                  'Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Govermnent maintains policy directions     M        FISE has been identified as a major player in
conducive to FISE effectiveness                     implementing the Poverty Reduction Strategy. It
will therefore remain important also for a
possible new government. Close donor
coordination will support FISE in maintaining
agreed directions.
Line agencies do not keep to tenms of      M        Involvement of line agencies in project
cooperation agreements (e.g., provide                preparation, establishment of cooperation
staff and operate facilities)                       agreements, creation of technical committees to
promote collaboration at the central and local
level,
FISE subjected to political interference   S         Careful supervision of compliance with ex-ante
allocations, objective and transparent operating
procedures for FISE, participatory planning at
municipal level, as well as increasing use of
FMP
Communities and municipalities not         M        Participatory approach, including sensitization,
willing to take responsibility for                   and capacity building
subproject execution and maintenance.
From Components to Outputs
Community level decision maldng process    M         Capacity building, close monitoring and
does not work                                       follow-up
Women are not able to participate fully in  N        Sensitization, extra capacity building for
all phases of the subproject cycle                  women, formal requirement for women's
participation, close monitoring and follow-up
Government is willing to take policy       S         Consensus building workshops with
decisions to improve safety net                     stakeholders, donors. Strengthening of SETEC's
capacity, technical assistance to develop reform
proposal
Evaluation of safety net program negative  M        Reallocation of funds to other project categories
FISE does not develop an adequate          M         Support to FISE for developing concept (TA,
concept for working with vulnerable                 study tours to other countries with innovation
groups                                              fund in place
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
- 28 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
* FISE will issue revised Operational Manual and PIP, satisfactory to IDA.
*   FISE will submit a procurement plan for the first year of Project implementation, satisfactory
to IDA.
*   FISE will establish a registry of contractors to participate in Subprojects.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
*   Procurement plans for subsequent years no later than December 15, each year
*   Establishment in the FISE of a registry of contractors from which the mayors may choose
small contractors, by June 30, 2001
*   All SBDs in place before the start of the procurement activities
*   The Government will provide necessary counterpart funds (US$4.8 million annually).
*   FISE shall send IDA the results of the review of its monitoring and evaluation system by
December 31, 2001, and subsequently take appropriate follow-up action.
*   FISE will send regular progress, planning, and audit reports. FISE will conduct joint Annual
Implementation Reviews and a Mid-term Review with IDA.
e FISE will maintain its staffing, Operational Manual, complementary guidelines, and PIP
satisfactory to IDA.
e   Innovation fund used by the Safety Net Program (first subcomponent): disbursements for
subprojects will only be financed after having received the results of the prograrn evaluation
and in the case of the evaluation being positive.
i   Innovation fund used by FISE (second subcomponent): disbursements for subprojects will
only be financed after Japanese Social Development Grant is disbursed more than 80%,
experience evaluated, and an operational manual in place which has received the no objection
of the Bank.
H. Readiness for Implementation
UI 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
A procurement plan for the first year will be submitted to IDA prior to effectiveness.
- 29 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are reconmmended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
AndraVeiuhen-                       1)    AV4                      C          zQ    - CnU 6dX
Andrea Vermnehren                  Xavier E. Coll  Pt/                D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Team Leader                  rOSector Director                        Country Manager
- 30 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
NICARAGUA: Poverty Reduction and Local Development Project
Key Perfomac
Hlerarchy of oectives       Ik-tor.          Monltug &i   is lo       C
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:  Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Developing human capital                      PRSP reports
and protecting the poor
Project Development    Outcome / Impact       Project reports:      (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:             Indicators:
Assisting the Government                                             Continued Govemment
in implementing its                                                  comrmitment to poverty
poverty reduction and                                                reduc tion,
local development                                                    decentralization and
strategy through FISE                                                social capital
by:                                                                  development
(i) Improving access to  (i) Increases in rates of   (i) FISE management    Sound macroeconomic
priority small-scale social access to and utilization  information system (MIS) policiies/discipline
and economic           of social and economic  reports/key performance
infrastructure for the  infrastructure       indicators/Poverty map,  Continued Government
poor;                                         as linked to project   support to FISE
Improvements in quality  funding
of subproject
Monitoring of project
Evidence that subprojects quality system reports
are in operation and
maintained for a       Evaluation of the
reasonable number of    implementation of the
years, by subproject type. Preventive Maintenance
Fund.
Increased share of project
funding going to the poor External impact
and poorest            evaluation
municipalities,
communities and
households;
- 31 -



(ii) Strengthening local   (ii) Improvements in local (ii) Annual beneficiary
capacity to plan, execute  participation in FISE  assessment
and maintain projects;   subprojects;
and                                            External impact
Increased number of    evaluation
municipalities who
manage the project cycle  FISE MIS
(iii) reviewing social  (iii) Improvements to the (iii) Government Social
safety net and piloting    social safety net   Protection Strategy
social programs for    developed and evaluated. document / PRSP
vulnerable groups                              implementation
Satisfactory evaluation of
projects financed under   Evaluations of pilot
the Innovation Fund    activities
Output from each       Output Indicators:      Project reports:        (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Competent choice and  1. Cost and number of   Quarterly reports and  Government maintains
management of          subprojects, execution    self-evaluations      policy directions
sub-projects at the local  within agreed time                          conducive to FISE
level resulting in good    schedule, number of  Supervision missions   effectiveness.
quality sub-projects   municipalities and
addressing priority needs communities managing   Financial, procurement   Targeting mechanism is
of communities         full subproject cycle,  and physical audits    implemented with
number of user                                 minimal political
committees operating    Disbursement reports   interference.
after 2 years of
subproject completion                          Line agencies keep to
terms of cooperation
agreements (e.g., provide
staff and operate
facilities).
2. Strengthened        2. (i) up to 100        Quarterly progress report Communities and
institutional and technical Participatory      on Municipal            municipalities willing to
capacities at the local    Micro-Planning processes Strengthening Program,  take responsibility for
level, to improve      carried out, evidence of  External evaluation of    subproject execution and
participatory planning    quality of such exercises, Program           maintenance.
and priorization,      (ii) 25 municipalities                          Local Governments
management of          managing project cycle,                         provide adequate
sub-project cycle, and    (iii) at least 100                           technical staff.
sustainability of FISE  municipalities
financed investments   participating in
Maintenance Fund.
- 32 -



3. Useful lessons learned  3. Description and  Quarterly progress report Quality safety net
from Innovation Fund,   analysis of lessons   from FISE on           projects can be identified.
and improved living   learned, positive      implementation of the
conditions for beneficiary evaluation of pilot  Innovation fund      Selection and targeting of
vulnerable groups.     activities:                                   vulnerable groups is
possible
4. Efficiently operating   4. Share of operating  Quarterly progress  FISE capacity/
institution            expenses in total budget; reports,            commnitment to
evidence of correct    External Impact       implement diversity of
application of targeting   Evaluation,        activities under pilot
mechanism (share of    PMR                    (indigenous) and special
investments going to                          programns (Social
poorest municipalities);                      Protection Program)
satisfactory ratings by                       remains strong.
beneficiaries, local and
central government,
donors
Project Components I   Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:  (from Components to
Sub-components:        component)                                    Outputs)
1. Subproject Financing  US $102.4 million    Quarterly progress     Community level decision
reports                making process works
2. Strengthenig local  US $7.5 million        Quarterly progress     Women participate fully
capacity                                      reports                in all phases of the
subproject cycle
3. Developing a coherent US $7.0 million      Quarterly progress     Government willing to
social safety net                             reports                take informed policy
decisions.
Eligible, good quality
requests presented to
Innovation Fund
4. Project Management  US $19.1 million       Quarterly progress     FISE management
reports, PMR           continues to be capable;
counterpart funds
provi(led to FISE timely
and in full
- 33 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
NICARAGUA: Poverty Reduction and Local Development Project
The proposed project would continue IDA's support to the Government of Nicaragua in its
poverty reduction efforts, and builds on the successful experience of almost ten years of support
through FISE, to provide financing for small-scale social and economic infrastructure and social
service sub-projects identified by poor communities. To provide these services more effectively,
the project supports FISE's program to strengthen local capacity for project planning,
management and implementation. In addition, the project aims to contribute to the Government of
Nicaragua's efforts to develop a more efficient and effective Social Safety Net in a two-pronged
approach: (i) it would provide for strengthening the analysis and policy formulation of the social
safety net, and (ii) it would support the further development of one of the most innovative social
safety net programs in Nicaragua, the "programa de protecci6n social" implemented by FISE.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$47.50 million
Sub-project Financing: This component would enable FISE to continue to support a wide range
of small-scale sub-projects for the replacement/expansion and improvement of basic social and
economic infrastructure, as well as for the provision of accompanying training in community
organization, operations and maintenance. Only sub-projects identified by beneficiaries, and
prioritized through a participatory planning process (MPP, or a similar system meeting agreed
criteria), led by the technical units of the municipalities with support from FISE/INIFOM or
others, would be eligible for financing. The sub-projects will have to meet technical, financial,
economic, social and environmental criteria specified in the Operations Manual, complementary
guidelines, and the PIP of FISE. According to the first round of the MPP in 60 municipalities in
1998/99, most of the demand for works, equipment, materials and training is related to:
education (50% of the number and 35% of the value ), health (18%/16%), water/sanitation
(14%/24%), social assistance (7%/6%), small-scale community/municipal infrastructure
(12%/15%; including access roads, bridges, markets, culverts), and environmental projects
(3%/2%; mainly reforestation and waste management).
Special attention would be given to four areas identified in recent evaluations:
(i)   Improving quality and comprehensiveness of investments: FISE is currently reviewing
its monitoring and evaluation systems to see how to accelerate the learning cycle of the
institution. At present, lessons learnt during sub-project execution are often not fed back to
planning and evaluation of sub-projects. During the course of the project, FISE with support from
the Bank, would undertake a major effort to re-assess its present institutional structure, which
would take into account quality assurance aspects as well as the new challenges that FISE is
facing in relation to municipal strengthening. With regard to more comprehensive sub-projects,
FISE is presently developing a more integrated approach to sub-project design and
implementation to avoid sub-projects which cannot operate. One example of this is linking health
infrastructure and water/sanitation projects with intensive capacity building in nutrition, hygiene,
etc. Another example is packaging of sub-projects in a way that they can reinforce each other
(road or bridge to provide easy access to school).
- 34 -



(ii)   Ensuring community participation throughout the project cycle: Community
participation in FISE financed sub-projects has improved greatly in recent years by introducing
participatory planning and working more closely with municipalities and communities in
sub-project implementation. FISE is implementing a comprehensive community capacity building
program, which includes massive training in community organization, identification and
prioritization of sub-projects, administration, operation and maintenance of sub-projects, as well
as training in topics specifically related to sub-projects like preventive basic health. Contractors as
well as FISE staff regularly have to meet with the committees to discuss sub-project
implementation and progress. FISE is currently reviewing its operational manual for supervision,
which would include these new elements more explicitly.
(iii)   Coordinating with service providers to ensure adequate supply-side interventions,
notably in the health sector: The Impact Evaluation (see Annex 4) revealed that especially the
health sector has not always been able to supply adequate services and materials for sub-projects
financed by FISE. Due to Ministry of Health constraints, FISE has only in exceptional cases been
able to cooperate with NGOs in providing the necessary health services. However, this policy is
changing with support from a joint IDA/IDB Health Sector Reform Project (Cr.2556 -NI), which
promotes outsourcing of services to private providers. FISE is currently discussing with the
Ministry of Health possibilities for getting more NGOs involved in providing services in remote
areas that are not covered by the formal health system.
(iv) Addressing the specific needs of the indigenous populations. A proposecl pilot program
would follow up on the efforts under the ongoing FISE III project (Cr. 3142-NI) which aimed at
identifying the priority needs of the indigenous populations in selected communities in the poorest
parts of the country. The pilot program for indigenous populations would include the two earlier
and four new municipalities. Details of this US$2.5 million investment component are described in
Annex 12. Technical assistance (US$0.5 million) is mentioned below.
FISE would continue to allocate its resources for sub-projects to all municipalities on the basis of
an agreed formula, using the new Poverty Map for Nicaragua. This map clearly identifies the
municipalities of the Atlantic Coast region to be the poorest in the country. Therefore, in its new
program, FISE would increasingly invest in this region. During the period 1998- 2000, FISE
allocated approximately US$ 33 per capita to municipalities of extreme poverty and only US$ 7
per capita to municipalities of medium poverty. The targeting system has provided transparency in
the use of funds, and helped ensure that social investment expenditures are spread lhroughout the
country, with a focus on the historically most under-served, poorest regions. Moreover,
transparent, ex-ante resource allocations provide a budget constraint that can force, and enable,
local governments and communities to make economic choices regarding the priorities among
investment options.
To respond quickly to the disaster situation caused by Hurricane Mitch in late-1998, the Bank and
FISE agreed to dedicate US $5 million of the ongoing FISE III project (Cr.3 142-NI) to disaster
mitigation and prevention measures. These resources were taken out of the ex-ante allocation of
the FISE program 1998-2001, with the result that now, at the end of the ongoing program, these
- 35 -



resources are missing to cover the agreed ex-ante allocation. Particularly extremely poor
municipalities have not received the full amnount promised to them, due to difficult access and low
management capacity. It has therefore been agreed with FISE that US $5 million of the proposed
credit would be eligible for financing sub-projects in municipalities of extreme poverty to cover
the gap.
It has also been agreed to introduce a new feature to the ex-ante allocation of funds to
municipalities. Local governments would be guaranteed to receive only 70 percent of the ex-ante
allocation. In order to access the remaining 30 percent that they are eligible for, they would have
to comply with pre-established conditions, including their efforts in maintaining completed
infrastructure, in establishing and operating sub-project committees, and in ensuring the
participation of women in sub-project committees. This system should provide an incentive for
municipalities to improve their performance in terms of maintenance, community participation and
gender awareness. The agreed final concept is part of the PIP.
FISE would continue to work with a pre-established sub-project menu, which was only recently
expanded to cover the rehabilitation of rural road prototype sub-projects. The "menu approach"
has been chosen because of the continued substantial investment needs in the social and economic
sectors, FISE's experience and comparative advantage in attending to the needs of these sectors,
and a desire to avoid overlap with other agencies. Nonetheless, FISE's menu should an would be
flexible enough to permit consideration of non-menu items in certain, agreed cases, where there is
a clearly demonstrated local public interest and technical capacity. Moreover, the pilot program
with indigenous communities would allow funding of different sub-projects and sub-project
designs currently not included in the menu. Furthermore, FISE has received a grant from the
Japanese Government (through the Bank) for financing social development projects targeted to
vulnerable groups generally not attended by traditional SIF infrastructure sub-projects. Based on
the experience with implementing these funds, FISE would develop its further strategy to allow
financing of different types of projects.
Project Component 2 - US$3.10 million
Strengthening local capacity: This component would support the following three elements of
FISE's Municipal and Community Strengthening Program:
(i)   Participatory municipal planning: FISE would only be able to finance sub-projects that
were identified and prioritized through a participatory municipal planning process. This agreement
has also been adopted under the new IDB and KfW credits to FISE, which are being prepared in
close coordination with the IDA credit. Over the next few years, FISE expects the need to
support up to 100 municipalities in their effort to carry out a transparent and participatory
investment planning process. An operational agreement between INIFOM and FISE, developed
on the basis of the framework agreement signed by the two institutions in November 2000, will
detail the exact areas of support of FISE and INIFOM in this area. The remaining 50
municipalities would be expected to implement a different planning process to be agreed by FISE
in accordance with criteria to be agreed with IDA. Under the proposed Credit, the development
of 25 plans would be financed, including technical assistance and training for communities and
municipalities, for them to carry out future planning on their own.
- 36 -



(ii)   Decentralized sub-project management: In 1998, FISE started to decentralize project
management gradually to capable municipalities. With technical assistance from FISE, the
complete sub-project cycle has now been handed over to nine pilot municipalities. 'Furthermore,
through its Regional Office in Matagalpa, FISE is decentralizing part of the sub-project cycle
(contracting, supervision) to municipalities. In order to do this, FISE is strengthening the
technical units of the municipalities (UTM) through technical assistance, training, equipment, and
materials. The credit would support the decentralization efforts of FISE in up to 25 municipalities
and would ensure that adequate mechanisms for coordination with INIFOM are in place and being
followed. With each of the participating municipalities, a decentralization strategy would be
developed to match their financial, technical and social capacity. The support may include
technical assistance, equipment, training and materials of up to US$ 25.000 per municipality per
year. FISE is presently in the process of adapting its computerized systems to the needs of local
governments. This effort is being carried out jointly with INIFOM which also is working with
municipalities in designing adequate systems for local government administration.
(iii) Capacity building for local actors: To play an active part in local development, apart
from communities and municipal governments, private local stakeholders have to participate in
this process. Among others, FISE would offer training and technical assistance in sub-project
design, implementation and administration to local NGOs, private firms and consultants to enable
them to actively participate in the sub-project cycle. Communities and beneficiary groups would
be trained in organization, conflict resolution, etc. In addition, this component would provide for
NGO to be trained for implementing the indigenous people pilot program.
Project Component 3 - US$ 7.00 million
Developing a coherent social safety net
a. Support to develop a coherent safety net as part of a social protection strategy (US $2.0 million).
Over the past 18 months, Nicaragua has been engaged in the preparation of a Poverty Reduction
Strategy. This process has permitted the Government to develop a solid analysis c f' poverty and
its determinants, a strategy to reduce poverty, and goals by which to measure the status of
implementation of the strategy. A recent assessment of social safety net programs seems to
indicate that the absence of a clear strategy for social protection in Nicaragua has permitted the
uncoordinated creation of many projects and programs, without a coherent guiding framework.
As a result, although these programs represent a good start toward an effective implementation of
the Government's poverty reduction strategy, the Government seeks a better organization of the
programs under a clear policy orientation, and improvement in the light of that framiework to
ensure their poverty impact. In some cases, this may require refinement of targeting mechanisms;
in other cases, it may require adoption of more cost effective models of benefit del ivery; and in
still others, the adjustment may need to be in project design. Further, some programs may be
found to lack relevance, and should be terminated.
To support the Government in achieving these goals, there are two major functions which would
be strengthened under this component: (i) the development of' a Social Protection strategy, and
(ii) better management of the country's public investment program in the social areas, including
monitoring and evaluation of social safety net programs. Currently, responsibility lbr these two
- 37 -



functions resides in two departments of the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (SETEC): the
Department of Social Policy Coordination (DSPC), and the Directorate-General of Public
Investment (DGIP). The project will provide TA to these departments to help them advance this
agenda. Even if the SETEC is reconfigured under the new government, these functions and
responsibilities would still remain within the Government's domain; the component has thus been
designed flexibly to respond to any institutional changes.
(i) Support for developing a social protection strategy: In the context of Nicaragua, the
preparation of an effective social protection strategy means - in the absence of any formal, state
supported insurance - the development of a well targeted safety net for the poor. At present there
are many institutions involved in safety net programs, both on the program execution side as well
as on the side of program finance. The ongoing assessment of the safety net is expected to
provide the core analysis for the elaboration of a coherent safety net.
Based on these discussions among social sector institutions, the project would allow Government
to prepare a revised conceptual framework for the social safety net. This framework would be
further developed into a draft social protection strategy, utilizing inputs from local and
international consultants. The draft strategy should encompass the reorganization and
reprogramming of the current safety net project portfolio by identifying gaps and duplications in
programmatic coverage of priority risks, and improving matching of risk priorities with program
resources. The strategy should identify early gains in cost efficiency from adoption of adequate
targeting mechanisms to ensure that programs really reach the poor (including entry and exit
criteria where relevant). It should include adoption of standard models to improve operational
efficiency and to reduce the existing wide variations in cost per beneficiary. Additionally, it
should include reconfiguration of programs to better reflect national and sector strategies and an
evaluation of the results. The development of a social protection strategy and indicators to
measure its implementation is an important contribution to the design and implementation of
Government's poverty reduction commitments.
The sub-component would include technical assistance for analytical work for defining a safety
net for Nicaragua; training and capacity building for a variety of stakeholders in the process of
designing a draft SP strategy, and funds for seminars, workshops, facilitators etc. to carry on the
discussion process and monitor implementation of the strategy. Additionally, the sub-component
would provide for a fund for specific poverty and safety net studies by local researchers which use
the Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) data. MECOVI has a very small fund along
these lines, and this fund would be supplemented under this sub-component.
(ii) Monitoring and evaluation of the Government's safety net programs: Monitoring and
evaluation of safety net programs is necessary to improve planning and implementation of the
public investment program and is a priority of the current Government. Three specific activities
would be supported under this component: (i) a computer data base for the National Public
Investment System (SNIP); (ii) methodological guidelines for monitoring and evaluatiorn of safety
net programs; and (iii) formal evaluation of several major safety net programs.
- 38 -



The first step is maintaining and updating a computer data base drawing from inforrnation available
in the SNIP and from other government agencies. The agency responsible for the S:NIP should
produce a monitoring report useful for government entities, donor agencies and civil society to be
potentially published on the Internet. The monitoring and evaluation report should,, among others,
include indicators such as the overall distribution of resources across sectors and risks, as actually
disbursed to beneficiaries, overall coverage of populations at risk, effectiveness of targeting
mechanisms, and definition of entry and exit criteria, operational efficiency, and administrative
costs. The SNIP should also identify interventions that could be subject to more rigorous impact
evaluations.
Nicaragua's many safety net programs have not been rigorously evaluated. The Government has
asked the Bank for methodological advice on how to develop indicators and conduct evaluations,
and this sub-component includes technical assistance for drawing up a methodological guide for
evaluation, provision of study materials and appropriate software for evaluation, identification of
consultants who could undertake evaluations of the major programs, and financing for 3
evaluations of major safety net programs. The portfolio of primary health care, rural development
and housing programs would be likely the candidates.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements: This component would operalte under a
subsidiary agreement between the FISE and the SETEC, and implementation would be supported
by an administrative officer located in the SETEC. The DSPC and the DGIP woul,d execute the
component, according to terms of reference developed during appraisal and agreed during
negotiations.
b. Establishing an Innovation Fund in FISE (US $5.0 million).
Nicaragua's currently fragmented social safety net does not have an avenue for testing new, more
effective safety net measures for poverty reduction. If FISE is to expand its role beyond traditional
social investment fund activities, a logical approach would be to first test initiatives on a pilot basis
as FISE has done in the past with all new interventions. The proposed component would finance
an Innovation Fund, that would be administered by FISE.
The Innovation Fund would finance:
(i) Pilot social safety net interventions for extremely poor, vulnerable groups by supporting
FISE's Social Safety Net Program. This subcomponent would strengthen the program's focus in
areas that have been identified by the safety net assessment as major gaps in the coluntry's safety net
such as Early Childhood Development including nutrition, youth etc.. Furthermore, it would
emphasize the importance of an adequate supply side response in terms of health/nutrition and
education services. The subcomponent would include analytical work to strengthen the ongoing
safety net program and, based on this work finance specific projects to test methodologies and
approaches in working with specific target groups. Based on this work and the upcoming
evaluation of the program, specific activities to improve and possibly expand the pro&tam would be
financed. The activities would include pilot-tests of targeting at the household leve . Currently, the
program targets by geographical area according to a poverty map. FISE wants to experiment with
identifying the poorest households through proxy means testing within a given geographical area.
- 39 -



(ii) Social assistance projects targeted to highly vulnerable groups. This subcomponent would
foster the development of innovative approaches to address the needs of key vulnerable groups as
identified in the social safety net assessment. The fund would provide financing for proposals
submitted by NGOs, community organizations, the private sector, etc. on the basis of an operation
manual to be developed by FISE. The social assistance projects seek to complement the types of
projects traditionally financed by FISE, but in addition they would target population groups such
as street children, youth at risk, poor disabled children, ethnic minority groups, elderly, female
headed households etc. which - according to the FISE impact evaluation - have not been
adequately reached by FISE interventions. The projects financed under the innovation fund will
not be pre-determined, but eligibility criteria will be agreed upon, including the eligible target
groups and outcomes that should be addressed by the proposal such as improving social inclusion,
reducing individual risks or creating employment opportunities. FISE management will appoint
qualified staff to define details of the implementation of these subprojects. FISE will start
implementing this component with resources from a Japanese grant provided through the Bank
(Japanese Social Development grant).
All subprojects financed by the Innovation Fund would require a social assessments, as well as a
proposed concept for monitoring and evaluation. Furthermore, an exit strategy for the subprojects
has to be defined both for "failure" and for "success" subprojects. FISE's Social Safety Net
program is undergoing an rigorous evaluation by the International Food Program Research
Institute (IFPRI) and the Bank. No initiatives associated with the Social Safety Net program will
be piloted until the program evaluation is completed and found to be positive. The project will
provide resources of an evaluation of the Innovation Fund to be carried out towards the end of
the project. The mid-term review of the project will intensely analyze the evolution and impact of
the Fund.
Project Component 4 - US$2.40 million
Project Management: FISE's operational costs are being covered by the Government (2/3) and
the IDB (1/3). These are estimated at 1 1.5 percent of the FISE program's total costs. The
proposed project would not finance any recurrent costs.
The project management component would include:
(i)   Institutional strengthening (US$ 1.6 million). This would include technical assistance,
study tours, training, and workshops, including defining the strategic role of FISE in the PRSP
and reinforcing its organizational development, and to improve FISE's operations in areas such as
water/sanitation, rural roads, environment, gender, indigenous issues and monitoring and
evaluation. Furthermore, the component would include technical assistance for the upcoming
LSMS (US$ 500,000).
(ii)   Equipment and vehicles (US$ 0.5 million).
(iii) External auditing (US$ 0.3 million), including the concurrent audits.
- 40 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
NICARAGUA: Poverty Reduction and Local Development Project
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Componont                 US $million   US Smillibn    US-$rnilWin
A. Subproject Financing 1)+2)                              73.70         28.70       102.40
B. Strengthening local capacity                             4.70          2.80         7.50
C. Developing a coherent Social Safety net                                             0.00
1. Institutional strengthening for policy analysis and formulation  0.70  1.30         2.00
2. Establishing an Innovation Fund                          3.40          1.60         5.00
D. Project Management                                      17.30          1.80         19.10
Total Baseline Cost                                        99.80         36.20        136.00
Physical Contingencies                                     0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                        0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs              99.80         36.20        136.00
Total Financing Required               99.80        36.20        136.00
Local       ForeIgn        Total
Project Cost By Category                 US $milion   US $milrlon    US $miition
Goods                                                         1.20          3.90          5.10
Works                                                       70.10          27.30         97.40
Services and Training                                        14.10          5.00         19.10
Operational costs                                            14.40          0.00         14.40
Total Project Costs     99.80          36.20       136.00
Total Financing Required      99.80         36.20        136.00
1) Costs net of: (a) taxes, (b) contributions from final beneficiaries, estimated at on average 10
percent of total project costs; those include land, materials, and labor, as well as lime spent by
the beneficiaries on sub-project processing activities, and (c) physical and price contingencies,
since any such variations would result in adjustments in the size of the investment program.
2) Costs net of costs of other FISE managed projects like (1) IDB assisted "Atlantic; Coast
Project", (ii) IDB assisted "Safety Net Project", and the USAID assisted "Rural Roads Project".
Identifiable taxes and duties are O (US$m) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 136 (USSm). Therefore, the project cDst sharing ratio is 44.12% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 41 -



Annex 4
NICARAGUA: Poverty Reduction and Local Development Project
Economic Analysis Summary
A. Background
The purpose of this annex is to summarize the economic analysis of the proposed activities to be
financed under the project, which are projected to cover a substantial share of the country's public
sector investment needs. The table below shows that FISE's investments as a percentage of total
public investments accounted for about 11 percent and as a percentage of social sector
investments accounted for about 40 percent over the period 1991-98. However, with the
substantial influx of donor funding following Hurricane Mitch, FISE's share has come down
considerably in recent years; its share of public sector social investment amounted to 23 percent in
2000, and is projected at 25 percent in 2001. In education, FISE's most important sector, FISE's
share was about 95 percent over the period 1991-96, but amounted to only 27 percent in 2000,
and is projected at 42 percent in 2001. FISE's health share shows a similar downturn at about 50
percent, 33 percent, and 28 percent, respectively. Consequently, there is definitely no sign of
"crowding out".
Table I
Total Public Investment, Investments in Social Infrastructure and FISE Investments
1991-1998
lS   illion
Investment  1_9  1922  1993194 94    1995       1 1       997    1998    Averae
Total public  72.6 180.  230.5 288.8    310.3    273.7   239.4   245.9    230.2
In social    24.7 38.5   63.1  87.3      89.3    74.2    57.0    57.7        61.5
infrastructure
From FISE    12.2  13.3   15.0  24.7     34.0    32.9    34.8    24.3        23.9
FISE Contribution
Total public  16.8  7.4    6.5   8.6     11.0    12.0    14.5       9.9      10.8
investment   {
Investment in
social      49.5  34.5   23.8  28.3      38.1     44.4    61.0   42.1        40.2
infrastructure
Source: Analisis de Costo-Eficiencia. Bermudez 2000
At the program level, this annex describes the experience with FISE as a delivery mechanism,
which is based on the findings and recommendations of the Ex-Post Impact Evaluation of the
Emergency Social Investment Fund (World Bank report no. 20400-NI of December 7, 2000), as
well as two studies of costs and efficiency carried out by Nicaraguan and intemational consultants
(Analisis de Costo Eficiencia by Gustavo Bermudez of Nicaragua and the subsequent Analisis
Complementario de Costo Eficiencia by the Social Investment Group of Bolivia). At the
sub-project level, the annex describes the economic and technical analysis of the sub-projects
carried out by FISE. In this respect, it should be noted that the ongoing FISE project, funded
- 42 -



under Credit 3142-NI, also provides for a review of FISE's appraisal, monitoring, performance,
and evaluation systems. This study should start shortly, and its results may well lead to changes in
FISE's economic analysis methodology and implementation. The appropriate consideration and
follow-up of this study's findings and recommendations, in consultation with the Bank, would be a
dated condition of the proposed loan.
B. Economic Analysis of the FISE as a Delivery Mechanism
Ex-Post Impact Evaluation
The Ex-Post Impact Evaluation was carried out in 1998-1999, and reviewed the impact of FISE's
primary education, rural health post, latrine, and water and sewerage sub-projects executed from
January 1994 to June 1997 with respect to (a) targeting the poorest municipalities, communities,
and households, (b) community priorities and participation, (c) sub-project utilization rates and
operational and physical sustainability, and (d) impact on beneficiaries' access to services and
health and education status. Nicaragua was one of the first countries to conduct an impact
evaluation of its social fund using methodologies based on the use of a comparison group to
construct a counterfactual. The impact evaluation was also one of the first to assess a social
fund's household level poverty targeting which was carried out by comparing FISE beneficiary
households' consumption levels to the national distribution as established in the 1998 Living
Standards Measurement Study.
Poverty Targeting
The results of FISE's poverty targeting were assessed at the municipal, community, and
household levels. At all three levels, FISE proved successful in reaching the poor.
3  At the municipal level, the study found that "extremely poor" municipalities received more
FISE resources per capita than the other municipal categories, and that the resource allocation
to the poorest had become more progressive over time. However, the allocation varied
substantially by sector. FISE water system investments were the most progressive in reaching
municipalities in extreme poverty, as almost half of the investments were directed to this
group. Education and health investments were also well targeted at extreme and high-poverty
municipalities. Equally, investments in the environment, municipal infrastructure, and latrines
were reasonably well targeted. Most regressive were investments in social assistance, as less
than 10 percent of those investments went to municipalities in extreme poverty and more than
40 percent to municipalities with medium and low poverty levels.
As Table 2 indicates, Nicaragua also compares favorably to other social funds in international
comparisons with respect to the progressiveness of its geographical targeting. Of the six
social funds reviewed, only the Peruvian social fund -- which is limited to rural areas -- is
more successful in getting resources to poor regions.
- 43 -



Table 2. Geographical Distribution of Total Social Fund Resources
By Level of Poverty of District or Municipality
Armenia    Bolivia    Honduras   Nicaragua    Peru          Zambia
Decile      1996-99      1991-98   1994-98      1991-98      1992-98    1991-98
1(poorest)     10.7       10.8        13.3          14.7       25.3         9.8
2              13.2       13.6        11.5          14.4       21.2        10.6
3              12.4       15.2        13.4          12.8       19.2        14.9
4              12.0       13.0        11.0          11.4       12.3         8.6
5               9.4       11.0        10.7          10.6        8.3         8.6
6               5.7       11.9         8.0          10.7        4.9        13.5
7               5.7        8.0         8.8           8.3        3.2         8.4
8               6.9        7.6         7.9           6.9        3.0        10.6
9              10.1        6.0         8.7           5.5        1.9         6.4
10             13.9        2.8         6.6          4.7         0.7         8.6
Source: Rawlings, Sherburne-Benz, Van Domelen (2001)
 At the community level, the study showed that both education and health investments were
reasonably well targeted to potential beneficiaries: in education the poorest 40 percent
received just over 40 percent of investmnents and in health they received 58 percent. However,
sewerage investments were regressive with the poorest 40 percent receiving less than five
percent of investments.
* At the household level, the study showed that targeting of both education and health
investments was slightly more progressive than at the community level, reflecting the fact that
poorer households within the targeted communities choose to use FISE investments. FISE'
latrine investments were very pro-poor, with over one-third of investments targeting direct
beneficiaries in the poorest one-fifth of the population. In contrast, FISE's sewerage
investments were less well targeted, with the least poor 30 percent of households receiving
close to 60 percent of investments. Water investments were distributed about even across the
population.
FISE aims to reach the poorest of the poor. However, the household data reveal that only in
primary education and latrines (not in health, water and sewerage) were FISE investments
progressively distributed among the 17 percent of the population living in extreme poverty, and
only for latrines do these investrnents remain progressive for the poorest 10 percent.
-44 -



Impact Results and Sustainability
The study showed that most beneficiaries were satisfied by their experience with FISE, as over 80
percent of them deemed the experience to be either satisfactory or extremely satisfactory. FISE's
investments were generally the most valued investments received by the communities, although
community participation in sub-project design, construction, and supervision was found to be
insufficient. Government participation was also considered insufficient, as 70 percent of
beneficiaries believed that local government did not participate in key aspects of sub-project
development. They also believed that responsible line agencies were not able to provide adequate
maintenance services; only half thought that the participation of the Ministry of Education was
good or average, and less than half had that impression of the Ministry of Health.
The study showed a significant, robust impact of FISE's primary education investments on
education outcomes, and pointed to a significant probable impact of FISE's water investments on
health outcomes. FISE's water and sanitation investments significantly improved access to those
services, but no measured impact was detected on health outcomes. The results of FISE's health
investments pointed to a probable, significant impact on the utilization of health posts to treat
children with diarrhea, but showed no measured impact on health outcomes. Results by sector
were as follows:
*  In the education sector, FISE's interventions induced (i) increased enrollment in schools by
one-fifth, (ii) a significant drop of the age of children entering primary school from 8.6 years
to 7.9 years old, and (iii) a reduction of the education gap (the difference between students'
actual and ideal age for grade), particularly for children from the poorest quintiles. They also
showed an increase in the number of teachers and staff, as well as better access to piped
water, electricity and bathrooms.
*  In the health sector, the study showed an increased use of rural health posts in specific
instances, such as children under six years of age suffering from diarrhea; however, FISE's
impact on health outcomes was not clear. It also showed that FISE's health posts had more
staff and volunteers, and had more medical materials, equipment, and furniture.
*  In the water sector, data showed that in areas of FISE investments there was a net increase of
25 percent in households with access to piped water. There was a positive impact on the
distance to the water source, as well as a positive effect on stunting in children under six,
reducing the incidence from 25 percent to 14 percent. However, although mainl:enance proved
generally acceptable, half of the completed systems did not provide sufficient water. Also,
community participation was insufficient.
*   Sewerage investments had a positive impact on access to sewerage systems, but were
generally not located in the poorest areas, and connection rates were frequently low. In
addition, community participation was minimal. On the positive side, beneficiaries reported
that the presence of the systems has led to improvements in road conditions, the incidence of
sickness, as well as insects and standing water.
-45 -



*  Latrine investments generated a net increase in access to sanitation facilities of close to 20
percent in the communities where FISE invested, but no significant results were found of the
impact on diarrhea or malnutrition.
Follow-Up of Ex-Post Impact Evaluation
The study findings were discussed at various meetings with a great variety of stakeholders, and
already resulted in important policy and operational decisions by the Government, FISE, and the
donors. These included:
* Substantial efforts by FISE and the line agencies- in particular the Ministries of Education and
Health, and INAA/ENACAL- to improve inter-institutional agreements, collaborative efforts,
and the coordination of programs managed by different agencies.
* Improved collaboration between FISE and the Institute for Municipal Development
(INIFOM) in implementing a common municipal planning methodology, as well as using the
municipality to manage the full sub-project cycle at the local level. Both agencies have also
major activities aimed at strengthening the local capacity to plan, implement and maintain
subprojects (see Annex 13).
* A decision by FISE to halt the contracting of sewerage sub-projects until proper poverty
targeting can be assured
 A decision by FISE to halt the contracting of new health facilities until the Ministry of Health
can deliver on its earlier promises to provide staff and supplies.
* Increased support to FISE's Safety Net program to provide demand-side subsidies to
extremely poor households.
Cost Studies
The cost studies were carried out to assess whether the execution of sub-projects by FISE was
more efficient than other agencies, as well as to identify the reasons for differences in cost
structures. The studies' main findings were that:
* In education, FISE incurs more costs than comparable agencies, but this can be explained by
the fact that FISE spends a considerable amount of resources on external works, such as
retention walls, terraces, as well as playing fields. In addition, community contributions to the
cost of the works were less for FISE than for others.
* In health, FISE is also more expensive than other agencies, which in this case is due to the
better quality of construction materials and generally better infrastructure design. In this
sector, community contributions to the cost of the works were higher for FISE than for other
agencies. Regarding latrines, FISE is more expensive, with the exception of PRODEL. This
seems partly due to geographical reasons, such as difficult access. Also, in comparison, FISE
has more extensive and, thus, more costly pre-investment and supervision methods
- 46 -



*  In water supply, FISE is also more expensive than other agencies. However, FISE's water
sub-projects are technically more complex. Except for Doctors Without Borders., FISE'
sub-projects get less from beneficiary communities than other financing agencies. This is due
to FISE's policy of paying for unskilled labor, because it was created as an employment
generating social fund. Last year, FISE - in coordination with iNIFOM - changed this policy,
and is now asking for community contributions in the form of unskilled labor, materials, land,
or cash.
*  In sewerage/sanitation, PRODEL and ENACAL show higher costs than FISE. Like in the
water sector, other agencies ask for higher community contributions. It should be noted that,
in this sector too, FISE places more emphasis on materials, pre-investment, and supervision
The studies conclude that, taking into account all construction and administrative c,Dsts and the
quality of the end-products, FISE is basically not more expensive than others. However, it is
evident that the cost issue warrants considerable further attention. The studies also point out, and
the Bank and other donor staff findings confirm, that:
*  FISE generally makes use of higher quality materials and better construction methods, has a
nation-wide coverage with very diverse geographic areas, and contracts out all of its
construction work.
*  In all sectors, except for health, community contributions to FISE's sub-projects are lower
than the counterpart funding for works carried out by other agencies.
e  FISE exerts a better control of its projects through its project management tools and use of its
software system. FISE clearly comes out as the leader in terms of defining the different steps
of each project cycle, ex-ante analysis, and supervision of sub-projects.
*  In comparison to other agencies, FISE has a more positive impact on the private and public
sector, by setting points of reference, such as prices and procedures, for the building industry.
It should be noted that, methodologically, the study posed a challenge: given the relative size of
FISE's social investment, there is no comparable agency in terms of size. Therefore, other social
investment programs were chosen not based on size, but based on comparable unics of their
relevant sub-projects: the Ministry of Education's APRENDE for schools, PRODE,L for
sewerage and latrines, and Doctors Without Borders for latrines. In the water and hlealth sector, it
was difficult to find comparable sub-projects, given the scale and complexity of FISE's sub-
projects.
Follow-Up of Cost Studies
The studies were completed only recently, and their findings and detailed technical
recommendations thus still need further consideration. But FISE has already decided to carefully
review a range of issues, including community contracting, design alternatives, change orders, and
justification of exterior works. Future studies of this nature clearly have to better address the need
to compare "apples with apples, and not with oranges". In that respect, it would also be useful,
next time, to look not only at the immediate construction costs of the individual works, but also at
their total costs, including a share of the implementing agencies' administrative costs and,
-47 -



possibly, the present value of the operation and maintenance of the completed works. Of course,
this also would require better cost and technical data from the other implementing agencies, and
agreement among FISE and those agencies on the importance of establishing similar evaluation
tools in order have available more information on outcomes and impact.
C. FISE's Economic Analysis of Sub-Projects
In accordance with its Operational Manual, and subject to minimum requirements agreed with the
relevant sector agencies, FISE uses detailed technical criteria, standard designs, and simple
economic criteria to determine sub-project economic viability. This includes application of a
comprehensive list of unit costs by type of sub-project, which is being updated regularly. Ex-ante
economic analysis also takes into consideration recurrent cost and the financial sustainability of
subprojects. For schools and health posts, attention is paid to facilities having the appropriate
staffing prior to approval by FISE. For water and sanitation projects, operation and maintenance
costs are estimated. In recent years, FISE has improved its commitment to ensuring that
maintenance is carried out by moving from a formalistic procedure whereby ministries sign
agreements, to a more operational approach, supported through the establishment of the
Preventive Maintenance Fund and contracts for training of community groups in operation and
maintenance (also see Annex 13).
FISE's design also fosters greater allocative efficiency in public expenditure. Through the
promotion of participatory decision making at the local level (the participatory micro-planning
process MPP), FISE empowers municipalities/communities to allocate scarce resources across
sectors, thereby ensuring that such resources are applied optimally, in response to local priorities.
Board based participation creates local ownership, which, combined with other complementary
activities that FISE provides (such as training of beneficiaries), enhances sustainability of
sub-projects and extends the life of the investment benefit streamns.
Table 3 describes the economic parameters that FISE uses to determine the economic viability of
its sub-projects.
-48 -



Table 3: Economic Analysis of FISE Projects
Main Technical       Main Economic Parameters                       Other Criteria
Parameters
Education Adequate building site.   Application of unit cost system.          Existence of
* Cost per beneficiary below established maximum  teacher(s)
Adequate enrollment    level by program (kinder, basic, etc).
school.               Cost per squared meter below maximum level.
* Cost per classroom below maximum level.
Size of classrooms    External works must be < 30% of total cost.
depends on enrollment   Environmental cost must be <30% of total cost.
levels.               Rehabilitation must be < 60% of replacement cost or
Rehabilitation Annual cost must be below
Replacement annual cost.
Cost per chair and furniture must be below maximum
level.
Health    Adequate building site.   Application of unit cost system.          Existence of
Cost per beneficiary below established maximum  sufficient staff
Size of center depends   level.                                     and necessary
on underlying         Cost per "consultation room" below maximum level,  materials.
population to be served  established.
or annual services    External works must be < 30% of total cost.
delivered to population. * Environmental cost must be <30% of total cost.
* Rehabilitation must be < 60% of replacement cost cir
Rehabilitation Annual cost must be below.
Cost per funitr must be below maximum level.
Water    Source must be         Application of unit cost system.              Existence of
sufficient to satisfy  * Economical and financial cost adequate to size of    qualified staff,
demand.               projects. (Internal rate of return below 12% and  necessary
nominal value added > 0) These criteria were  materials
Acceptable water      reviewed, proposed to internal rate of retum below    and/or
quality.              8%.                                           established
Operations and maintenance tariffs should be  training
accessible to population.                     program.
Sewerage Must be water supply    Application of unit cost systeim.            Existence of
operating adequately    * Economical and Financial cost adequate to size of    qualified staff,
Must include primary    projects. (TIR below 12% and VAN > 0) These  necessary
treatment system and    criteria were reviewed, proposed to TIR below 8%.  materials
meet environmental    Operations and maintenance tariffs should be  and/or establish
criteria.             accessible to population.                     training
_program
Latrines  Building site       * Application of unit cost system.              Beneficiary
geologically stable   Cost per beneficiary below established maximum  Contribution.
No proximate water    level.
source.               Cost per type of latrine below maximum level.
* Cost per training group below maximum level.
-49-



D. Summary
The central function of the FISE is to finance infrastructure improvements in schools, health
centers, water and sanitation facilities at the request of local communities. From 1991 to 1998,
FISE investments constituted 40 percent of total public investments in social sector infrastructure.
While the FISE Impact Evaluation focused on poverty targeting, household impact on human
capital formation and supply, utilization and quality of FISE investments, the cost studies
questioned how cost-effective FISE was in comparison to other social investment agencies.
The results of the Impact Evaluation showed that FISE is successfully targeting the poor
municipalities, communities and households, although results vary substantially by type of
subproject. FISE has also contributed to significant positive changes in access to social services
and health and education outcomes. FISE investments in primary education have significantly
improved enrollment rates, the education gap and age-at-entry for primary schools students.
FISE investments in rural health posts have less clear results, a finding that calls for a more
coordinated and focused approach to the provision of primary health care in rural areas between
FISE and other institutions. FISE water, latrine, and sewerage projects all substantially raised
access to these basic services and the water investments resulted in a positive impact on stunting
(height-for-age) in children under six years of age.
The results of the cost studies underlined the fact that FISE investments comprise a more defined
and comprehensive project cycle than its comparators. For this reason, along with the fact that
FISE investments make use of higher-quality materials and count - except for the health sector -
on lower community contributions, FISE does show higher costs than its comparators. Higher
costs are particularly incurred in the education sector, where higher costs of materials per person
account for most of the cost differences.
Furthermore, the cost studies stress the limitations inherent in such a an enterprise. Therefore, the
comparison of FISE to other social investment providers needs to be further examined, taking into
the account the constraints under which these studies were carried out.
It also should be noted that, in accordance with FISE's Operational Manual, cost-benefit analyses
are carried out by FISE's evaluation staff for all sub-projects, which have to meet agreed
minimum criteria.
- 50 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
NICARAGUA: Poverty Reduction and Local Development Project
Years Ending
by June 30
|Year i  | Year 2  |   er3|Ya          er5|Year 6      Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          35.0      40.0       46.6        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            4.8        4.8        4.8       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         39.8      44.8       51.4        0.0       0.0        0.0        
Total Financing             39.8      44.8       51.4        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 14.0       20.0       26.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Government                4.8        4.8        4.8       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Central                4.8       4.8        4.8        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers            21.0       20.0       20.6       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    39.8      44.8       51.4        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
rYear1     Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year S         Year6   Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs          0.3        1.1        2.0       2.4        2.4       2.4        2.4
Total Project Costs         0.3        1.1       2.0        2.4        2.4       2.4       2.4
Total Financing             0.3        1.1       2.0        2.4        2.4       2.4       2.4
Financing
IBRDIIDA                 0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                0.2       0.9        1.8       2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0
Central               0.1        0.6        1.4       1.5        1.5       1.5        1.5
Provincial             0.1       0.3        0.4        0.5       0.5       0.5        0.5
Co-financiers             0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries  0.1        0.2        0.2        0.4       0.4       0.4        0.4
Others                    0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    0.3        1.1       2.0        2.4        2.4       2.4       2.4
Main assumptions:
Since most works are for rehabilitation and replacement, incremental average operation and
maintenance costs for completed infrastructure are estimated at 2 percent per year. According to
-51 -



experience and studies carried out under past phases of the FISE program, these costs are mostly
borne by beneficiary communities and local governments. Since recently, an increasing share of
the maintenance of schools and health posts is provided for under the FISE's new Preventive
Maintenance Fund (FMP, see Annex 13), and would thus be split by the responsible local
governments/communities (one-third) and FISE (two-thirds). Since the proportion of sub-projects
requiring new staff is expected to be quite low, no incremental staff salaries are assumed for the
purposes of this analysis. In any case, as has been the case in the past, for sub-projects that do
require an increase in government expenditures on recurrent costs (i.e., incremental staff), prior
endorsement of the sub-project by the relevant line ministries would have to be obtained.
External co-financing amounts are based on initial indications from IDB, KfW, and other donors.
However, since all external co-financing would be parallel rather than joint, no adverse effects on
the proposed project would result if any external co-financing amounts were to differ from the
currently projected amounts.
The cost estimates provided for subproject investments include only measurable financial costs
incurred, and therefore exclude certain cost items that are typically contributed by beneficiaries,
and sometimes by local governments and/or NGOs, prior to initiation of the works, such as: land;
unskilled labor for site clearing; materials; and pre-feasibility studies. FISE estimnates that such
contributions should average around 10 percent. FISE has started an effort to document such
contributions more consistently.
- 52 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
NICARAGUA: Poverty Reduction and Local Development Project
Procurement
A) Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank"
Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995
(revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised
in September 1999 and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Credit Agreement.
1) Procurement methods: The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and
the estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract
values for the use of each method are detailed in Table B.
Procurement of Works
Works procured under this Credit are estimated to cost US$51,800,000 and would include
construction of sub-projects submitted by rural communities to the FISE, mainly schools, health
centers, rural roads, water supply and sanitation works. Contracts with an estimated cost of
more than US$150,000 may be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures, using standard bidding documents (SBDs) agreed in advance with the Elank.
Contracts estimated to cost less than US$150,000 may be procured using procedures established
in the national procurement law (Ley de Contrataci6n). These procedures include: (i)
competitive bidding among bidders registered in the Registry of Contractors for works estimated
to cost between US$55,000 and US$150,000,00. All contractors registered in the Registry of
Contractors are invited by letter or by public notice; and (ii) bidding among at least ihree
contractors selected from the Registry for contracts estimated to cost between US$8,000 and
US$55,000. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$8,000 may be procured through direct
contracting.
The Borrower shall cause FISE to carry out quarterly publications of FISE's procurement plans
in lieu of the annual procurement plan required under Section 9 of Law 323 (enacted on January
3, 2000, as amended) of the Borrower. National procedures will apply with the follciwing
exceptions: (i) registration in the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MFPC) Registry of
bidders shall not be required for the award of any contract financed under the Credit; (ii)
professional title shall not be a bidder qualification requirement for the construction of civil
works but previous experience in the relevant work; (iii) procurement bidding docuirients and
executed contracts shall be kept within FISE or the relevant Selected Municipality; i(iv) contracts
for goods and works shall not be executed through a public deed (escritura ptTblica) but through
private instruments with signatures certified by notary public.
- 53 -



Under the Innovation Fund, tailor-made procedures for community participation will be
developed by FISE which would be reflected in a operational directive describing procedures for
community participation in the provision of goods and works. Issues to be addressed in the
document would include, inter alia: who will procure what, how will the items be purchased,
what documentary evidence will be required for the expenditures, and how will the procurement
process be monitored. Goods and works required under this scheme shall be procured in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Procurement of Goods
Goods procured under the Credit are estimated to cost US$1,200,000 and would include
vehicles, computer equipment, and office equipment. To the extent possible, contracts for these
goods would be grouped into bidding packages of more than US$ 100,000 equivalent and
procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, using Bank-issued
SBDs. Contracts with estimated values below this threshold per contract and up to an aggregate
amount of US$0.7 million may be procured using shopping (National Ilnternational) procedures
based on a model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank. The convenience of using
shopping vs. other more competitive procedures shall be decided on the basis of annual
procurement plans.
Selection of Consultants
Consulting services would be contracted in the following areas of expertise: institutional
development, census of the beneficiary population, and development of the enrollment database.
The services to be procured under the Credit are estimated to cost US$7,100,000 equivalent and
would be procured using the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals.
Firms
All contracts for firms would be procured using QCBS, except for small and simple contracts
estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or less that would be procured using CQ, up to an
aggregate amount of US$500,000 equivalent.
Individuals
Inspection of field works, technical support to the UTMs (Technical Units in Municipalities), and
specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected by comparison
of qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$2,000,000.
Operational Costs: The Credit would not finance FISE's operational costs.
2) Prior review thresholds: The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the
procurement capacity assessment of the FISE and are summarized in Table B.
- 54 -



B) Assessment of the agencv's capacity to implement Procurement
Procurement activities would be carried out by the Procurement Unit (Gerencia de Contratacion),
by the FISE's Regional Office in Matagalpa (OTR) and, under an initial pilot program, by the
Technical Units in nine municipalities' UTMs, all in close coordination with the Cent.ral Unit for
Administration and Finance within the FISE, which will administer project funds. The
Procurement Unit is satisfactorily staffed by a Unit Manager, five professionals, one lawyer, four
computer assistants and four administrative assistants. The OTR has a Procurement Unit staffed
by one professional from the central Procurement Unit. The UTMs are staffed with one or two
engineers with procurement experience. The Operations Manual will describe the relationship
among the Procurement Unit, the OTR and the UTMs and the monitoring and supervision
responsibilities of the Procurement Unit in the procurement carried out by the OTR and the
UTMs, as well as, in addition to the procurement procedures, the SBDs to be used lor each
procurement method.
An assessment of the capacity of the FISE to implement procurement actions for the project was
carried out and approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor on January 22, 2001. The
assessment reviewed the organizational structure of the FISE and the interaction between the
Procurement Unit and the Administration and Finance Unit.
Most of the issues concerning the FISE have been or are being addressed, and corrective
measures are being implemented under the ongoing IDA-supported project that is also managed
by this Unit. The risks identified in the assessment include: (i) the current Procurement Law
contains some requirements whose application to small contracts would cause inefficiencies and
possible cost increase; (ii) the FISE has not developed a procurement planning capacity. Lack of
planning does not permit optimization of procurement packaging; (iii) the decentralization of
project implementation is new to the FISE. The FISE's experience, organization, manuals and
internal procedures correspond to project execution under a centralized scheme; (iv) the FISE
staff may not fully support the new approach to implement projects in a decentralized manner. It
would be understandable if they wanted to keep implementing the projects in a manner they are
more familiar with; (v) current criteria for qualification of bidders do not promote competition and
efficiency; (vi) current bidding evaluation criteria are inadequate; (vii) sub-project supervision is
weak and the current approach for sub-project supervision merits a complete revision; and (viii)
there is a possibility of changes in FISE's staff because of political influence. The FISE has
already presented a plan to address these risks. It involves: (i) preparation of procurement plans
every six months with emphasis on grouping several works located in the same region and
avoiding direct contracting. Direct contracting will be limited to exceptional contracts in remote
areas where competition is not possible; (ii) agreement on the main contents of the Procurement
Manual under preparation, which will define the procedures for the various project
implementation modalities (centralized and decentralized modalities). The Manual willl include an
objective qualification system for contractors and revised bidding evaluation criteria. Contracts
will be procured under a lump-sum fixed price basis and awarded to the qualified bidlder that
submit the lowest evaluated bid; (iii) preparation of SBDs to be agreed with the Bank; and (iv)
implementation of a technical assistance and training program to develop staff procurement
planning abilities, strengthen project preparation, and develop staff abilities for implementing the
decentralization of FISE's operations. In addition to the above actions, Schedule 4 to the Credit
- 55 -



Agreement explicitly makes exception to: (i) the provisions of the National Procurement Law as
described under the above Procurement of Works paragraph; (ii) use of bracketing, direct-indirect
costs and number of contracts with FISE as bid evaluation criteria; and (iii) replacement of key
technical staff without justified cause and IDA's prior acceptance.
The FISE already has a computerized monitoring and control system, which is being upgraded to
meet future FISE needs. The FISE already has a LACI-ready system installed and its financial
management system has been found satisfactory in terms of staffing and accounting, intemal
control and auditing systems.
The overall project risk for procurement is AVERAGE.
C) Procurement Plan
Prior to effectiveness, FISE will submit a procurement plan for the first six months of project
implementation that will provide the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement
methods (per Table A). This plan will be submitted, for approval, to the RPA and will remain in
the project files. At June 15 and December 15 of each calendar year, the FISE will update the
Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming six months.
D) Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review supervision, the capacity assessment of the FISE has recommended
one full supervision mission every six months to visit the field to carry out a post review of
procurement actions. Based on the overall risk assessment (AVERAGE), the post-review field
analysis should cover a sample of not less than 10 percent of the signed contracts.
Financial Management
Financial Management Assessment. In accordance with IDA's policy OP/BP 10.02, the LCR
Financial Management Unit (LCOAA) reviewed FISE's financial management arrangements
relating to the project. The review focused on the assessment of the internal control, planning,
budgeting, accounting, and financial reporting system, and audit arrangements. During project
preparation, a LAC Financial Management Specialist confirmed the new project's compliance with
Bank current standards concerning project financial management. Certain actions for
improvement were identified and are included in the Action Plan presented in the Financial
Management Assessment Report. The principal actions to be taken by project management
involve the completion of a Project Operational Manual and preparation of Project Financial
Statements, including the counterpart funding eligible under the terms of the Credit Agreement.
Audit Arrangements. Project accounts will be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, under terms of reference to be approved by IDA. Certified copies of the audit
reports would be furnished to IDA no later than four months after the end of the fiscal year. In
addition to the annual financial audit, quarterly operational audits will be carried out, including a
review of sub-projects both in execution and completed, covering both their processing and
- 56 -



implementation. These operational audits will be performed and reported in accordance with
ternms of reference acceptable to IDA.
Disbursements
Allocation of credit proceeds (see Table C). The proposed Credit would be disbursed over a
period of three years, and the project would be expected to be completed by June 30, 2004. The
Credit closing date would be December 31, 2004 (i.e., six months after the project completion
date). Disbursements would be in accordance with the guidelines set out in the Bank's
Disbursement Handbook and the LACI Implementation Handbook. Disbursements would be
made against categories of expenditure presented in table C below.
Project Management reports (PMRs). Credit disbursements would be based on quarterly PMRs
to be submitted 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, except for the initial project
implementation period ending March 31, 2002, when disbursements would be made based on
Statements of Expenses (SOE).
In accordance with formats agreed with IDA, each PMR should comprise at least:
(i) a financial section that: (a) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for lhe project,
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and
applications of funds for the six-months period following the period covered by said report; and
(b) shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the credit during thie period
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds during the
six-months period covered by said report;
(ii) an output monitoring section that: (a) describes physical progress in project implementation,
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (b) explains variances between
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii) a procurement section setting forth the status of procurement under the project and
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the credit, as of the end of the
period covered by said report.
Use of Statement of Expenses (SOEs): Disbursements would be made on the basis of full
documentation for all expenditures made under contracts requiring prior review by IDA, as
indicated in Table B; and contracts whose value would be raised above the prior review limits, as
a result of amendments. For all other expenditures, disbursements would be granted against SOEs
for which supporting documents would be maintained by FISE, and be available to ID)A and
external auditors for review.
Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, credit proceeds would be deposited in a
Special Account to be opened in US dollars at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA.
- 57 -



Until SOEs are used for requesting disbursments (March 31, 2002), the special account shall not
exceed an amount equal to $ 6 million. The corresponding disbursement limits through SOEs are
$300,000 for works contracts with exception for the first two works contracts over $55,000 each
year; $100,000 for goods contracts, $100,000 for consulting firm contracts; $25,000 for
individual consultant contracts, and no limit for training/study tours.
From April 1, 2002, each application for disbursements shall be supported by a PMR. Upon
receipt of each application, IDA would deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the
lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which IDA has determined, based on
the PMR, is required to be deposited in order to finance eligible expenditures during the
six-month period following the date of the PMR; provided, however, that the amount so
deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said PMR to be remaining in the Special
Account, shall not exceed an amount equal to US$12 million.
The Special Account is only to be used for eligible expenditures under the credit (under no
circumstances may funds in the Special Account be used to cover the share of expenditures
corresponding to the counterpart and/or other financiers). Transfers from the Special Account to
other bank accounts will only be performed to meet eligible expenditures for a limited period of
less than 30 days.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
ProcP emient Method:                     f
ExndIture Vg0oty1GB                          NCB           OtherZ         N.aF.      Total Cost
1. Works                                          11.00        40.80 a/       45.60         97.40
(11.00)       (40.80)                     (51.80)
2. Goods                           0.50                        0.70 b/         3.90          5.10
(0.50)                       (0.60)                      (1.10)
3. Consultant Services c/                                      7.10 d/        12.00         19.10
(7.10)                      (7.10)
4. Operational Costs                                                           14.40        14.40
Total                           0.50           11.00         48.60         75.90         136.00
_    (0.50)        (11.00)       (48.50)                     (60.00)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel co-financing procedures, and any
other miscellaneous iterns).
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
Foot-Notes:
a/ Other following procedures in accordance with national legislation.
b/ Shopping (National and Intemational)
c/ Consultants Services. Details provided in Table A-I
- 58 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Coniubnt                                  USwtlon   Method
EXPebftr*      am        QCB       Sn       QB LS      CQ       Oter    N8.F.  Tota Cost,
A. Firms           4.60     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.50     0.00      6.00      11.10
(4.60)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.50)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (5.10)
B. Individuals     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     2.00      6.00      8.00
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.00) _  (0.00)    (2.00)
Total   4.60     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.50      2.00      12.00    19.10
(4.60)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.50)    (2.00)    (0.00)    (7.10)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Reviews
Ci6fiirc Value                              Contract subject to
Threshold             ProAunt                 Pror Rwiew
Expw ydtu  Cat! wy       (UWWoM14d0)                Meth1od              (US$ mlions)
1. Works                       >150                   NCB            First two each year and all
over US$300,000
<150            NCB following national   First two each year>
procedures a/             55,000
<8               Direct Contracting     None (Post Review)
2. Goods                       >100                    lCB                     All
<100                   NCB                      All
<55                  Shopping           None (Post Review)
3. Consulting Firms    According to IDA Guide      QCBS, CQ,             All single-source
Single-Source Selection   selection and all
>$ 100,000
4. Consulting          According to IDA Guide    Individual Consultants  All > $25,000 (TOR,
Individuals                                                           _   vcontract, CV)
5. Tralning/Study Tours        N.A.                    N.A.           TORs for all IDA-financed
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: cannot be estimated due to the demand -driven nature of
the programn
- 59 -



a/ The following procedures established in the National Procurement Law will apply: (i)
competitive bidding among bidders registered in the Registry of Contractors for works estimated to
cost between US$55,000 and US$150,000; and (ii) bidding among a few contractors selected from
the Registry for contracts estimated to cost less than US$8,000.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average           X
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 month(s) (includes
special procurement supervision for post-review) reviewing a sample of 1 in 10 contracts signed.
- 60 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expendiure Catgory          Amount lirUSmn1l1lon         Financing Perce
Subprojects                                                             100%
(a) Integrated small social and economic   45.00
infrastructure subprojects, including
corresponding equipment, furniture,
materials, and technical services                                          _
(b) Small sub-projects under Indigenous    2.50
Development Program
(c) Small sub-projects under Innovation    4.30
Fund
Goods                                                      100% foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost), 75
of local expenditures for other items
_______________ _  procured  locally
(a)   Vehicles and equipment for           0.80
FISE, including for Indigenous
Development Program and for
strengthening of participating
municipalities                             __
(b) Vehicles and equipment for             0.10
Inovation Fund
(c) Equipment for SETEC                    0.20
Consultants' Services and Training.                                     100% o
Works' design, supervision services,
subprojects for capacity building,
including training in operations and
maintenance, and technical assistance/
training for institutional strengthening.
(a)   Consultant services to               2.80
strengthen communities, local
governments, and community-based
organizations
(b)   Consultant services to               1.50
strengthen FISE operations, including
extemal audit and Indigenous
Development Program
(c)   Training of FISE staff               0.40
- 61 -



(d)     Consultant services for               1.80
SETEC, monitoring and evaluation
(e) Consultant services for Innovation        0.60
Fund                                I_I
Total Project Costs                          60.00
Total                                         60.00
Foot Note: Credit Agreement shows denomination in SDR, including an unallocated category of 10 percent.
- 62 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
NICARAGUA: Poverty Reduction and Local Development Project
Project Scheu-le                                   Pbnnedt                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       10                           10
First Bank mission (identification)              07/05/2000                   07/05/2000
Appraisal mission departure                      02/12/2001                   02/12/2001
Negotiations                                     03/07/2001                   03/12/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    07/01/2001
Prepared by:
Nicaragua Emergency Social Investment Fund (FISE) with the help of consultants funded under a Japanese
PHRD grant, as well as Bank staff.
Preparation assistance:
Trust Funds: PHRD (TF 025845),
Cofmancing Agencies: IDB, KfW, SIDA
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality_
Andrea Vermehren                  Task Manager
Willem Struben (consultant)       Institutional Support
Jaime Roman                       Procurement
Maria Lourdes Noel                Procuremnent
Marcelo Osorio (consultant)       Procurement
Michael Fowler                    Disbursement
Livio Pino                        Financial Management
Jeanine Braithwaite               Social Protection
Karla McEvoy                      Enviroment
Lerick Kebeck                     Operational Support
Ximena Traa (consultant)          Social Assessment and IPDP
Mario Zelaya (consultant)         Water Supply and Sanitation
Laura Rawlings                    Impact Evaluation
Florencia Castro-Leal             LSMS
Mariangeles Sabella               Legal
Steve Maber                       Water Supply and Sanitation
Maria Claudia Vasquez (consultant)   Environment
Osmar Velasco (consultant)        Decentralization
Nancy Gillespie                   Social Protection Policies
Helena Ribe                       Sector Leader
Ana-Maria Arriagada               Sector Manager
Lynne Sherbume-Benz               Peer Reviewer (Social Funds)
Dana Weist                        Peer Reviewer (Decentralization)
- 63 -



FISE Managers:
Carlos Noguera      Executive President
Carlos Lacayo       Director of Projects and Local Development
Erasmo Vargas       Director of Programming and Control
- 64 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
NICARAGUA: Poverty Reduction and Local Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
FISE: Plan de Implementaci6n, March 2001
FISE: Manual Operativo, January 2001
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Alvarado, Carlos, Consultoria sobre Criterios, Normas y Procedimientos para Acelerar kl Graduaci6n
de los Municipios en Nicaragua - Informe de Consultoria, January 15, 2001
Araujo, Eduardo, Rauil Lema, Cristian Hurtado, SIG, An6lisis Complementario de Costo Eyiciencia,
Fondo de Inversi6n Social de Emergencia - Nicaragua., December, 2000
Ayuda Memoria, Mision de Pre-Evaluaci6n, Noviembre 13 al 16, 2000
Back-to-Office Report, Nicaragua Poverty Reduction and Local Development Project, Oc:xober 16, 2000
Bermudez, Gustavo, Implicaciones del Mitch en FISE, June 26, 2000
Budinich, Ema, Andlisis de una Muestra de Programas y Proyectos de la Cartera de la Estrategia de
Reduccion de la Pobreza - Informe Preliminarpara Discusi6n, January 15, 2001
Gillespie, Nancy, Gustavo Arcia, Ema Budinich, and Mary Lisbeth Gonzalez, Managing Social Risk in
Nicaragua, January 26, 2001
Project Appraisal Document, Nicaragua - Natural Disaster Vulnerability Reduction, Deceniber 12, 2000
Project Appraisal Document, Nicaragua - Third Social Investment Fund Project, October 22, 1998
Project Appraisal Document, Nicaragua - Second Rural Municipal Development Project, September 27,
2000
Sanchez, Oscar, Maria Claudia Vazques, Caracteristicas Sociales Socioculturales y Ambientales en el
Noreste de Jinotega y la Costa Atlantica de Nicaragua, November 1999
Trentmann, Claudia, Leonardo Romeo, and Osmar Velasco, Banco Mundial, KfW, Mision de Evaluaci6n
Conjunta del Proceso de Microplanificaci6n Participaliva FISE - PROTIERRA/INIFOM, 18 de
octubre al 9 de noviembre de 1999
Webb, Anna, Collaboration Between the Nicaragua Social Investment Emergency Fund (IFSE) and
Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs), August 4, 2000
World Bank, Nicaragua - Ex-Post Impact Evaluation of the Emergency Social Investment
Fund (FISE), December 7, 2000
C. Other
IDEAS: Evaluaci6n Cualitativa de Beneficiarios FISE 1997-98, May 2000
FISE: Informe de Avance del Programa FISE 98-01, August 2000
FISE: Consideraciones y Observaciones de los Principales Actores Locales para la Readecuaci6n del
Manual de la Microplanificaci6n Participativa (MPP), October 2000
FISE: Sintesis de los Principales Avances, Limitaciones y Desafios del Programa de Forialecimiento
Municipal y Comunitario, Actualizado a Mayo del 2000, May 2000
FISE: Estrategia de Capacitacion Institucional, Municipal y Comunitaria del FISE, July 1999
FISE: Plan de Implementaci6n - Enfoque de Genero, August 1998
FISE: Propuesta de Procedimientos del Ciclo Descentralizado de Proyectos, March 19, 1999
FISE: A Strengthened Poverty Reduction Strategy, Government of Nicaragua, August 2000
IDB:  Nicaragua - Programa de Combate a la Pobreza y Fortalecimiento de Capacidaaes Locales
- 65 -



(NI-0108), Propuesta de Prestamo, October 3, 2000
IDB:  Fondo de Inversi6n Social de Nicaragua, Revision Estrategica, August 25, 2000
IDB:  Grun, Stephen and Pablo Schneider, Analisis de la Experencia del Programa de Fortalecimiento
Municipal y Comunitario FISE de Nicaragua - Informe Final de Consultoria, July 2000
IDB:  Atlantic Coast Local Development Program (NI-0107), Loan Proposal
IDB:  Fondo de Inversi6n Social de Emergencia, FISE - Diagn6stico de Genero del FISE (Roxana
Volio M), April 1999
IDB:  Rausch, Alejandro and Sandra Karina Vivona, Fondo de Inversi6n Social de Emergencia:
Evaluaci6n de los Mecanismos de Coordinaci6n Interinstitucional a Nivel Central y Local,
July 2000
Lacayo, Carlos, FISE, Descentralizaci6n en la Provisi6n y Mantenimiento de la Infraestructura Social
Basica de Jurisdicci6n Municipal, 6 al 8 de junio de 1999
MacDonald, Charles L. and Stephen Morris Joseph, FISE Nicaragua: Evaluaci6n del Impacto de los
Proyectos, July 29, 2000
Ortega, Manuel, Mario Castro, and Guadalupe Wallace, CASC-UCA, Evaluaci6n de las Capacidades
Actuales de Gesti6n y Manejo del Ciclo de Proyectos de los Gobiernos Municipales de
Nicaragua, August 2000
PriceWaterhouse Coopers, LLC, Proyectos Fondo de Inversi6n Social de Emergencia (FISE)
(Creditos AIF Nos. 2767-NIy 3142-NI - Auditoria de Contrataciones - Borrador de Informe
Final, May 2000
SETEC:Mapa de Pobreza Extrema en Nicaragua, Censo 1995-EMVN 1998, December 1, 2000
*Including electronic files
- 66 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
NICARAGUA: Poverty Reduction and Local Development Project
Mar-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                            disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA        SF       GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frmn Rev'd
P070016       2001 CcurpesUvenes LL                                 0.00      5.00       0.00      0.00       o.0o      5.22      0.00       0.00
P056087       2000 Penson and Flnandi Market Refonn TA              0.00      8.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      7.24      0.41       0.00
P055853       2000 TELECOMMUNIC. REFORM                             0.00      15.90      0.00      0.00       0.00      7.71       1.96      0.00
P049296       2000 NI ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TAC                       0.00     20.90       0.00      0.00       0.00        6.84   -2.71       o.0o
P064915       2000 AG TECHN & RURAL EDU                             0.o0     23.63       0.00      0.00       0.00     20.54       1.60      0.00
P050613       2000 NUSECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT                 0.00     52.50       0.00      0.00       0.00     41.42     -10.00      00.
P040197       1999 Ni9FISEIII                                       0.00     45.00       0.00      0.00       0.00     14.72       1.60      0.00
P052080       1999 FORESTRY                                         o.0o      9.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      6.10      2.44       0.00
P053705       1998 TRANSPORTII                                      0.00     47.40       0.00      0.00       0.00      21.42     -0.00      0.00
P035753       1998 NUHEALTH SECT tl                                 0.00     24.00       0.00      0.00       0.00     15.87      4.99       0.00
P007790       1997 RURALMuNICIPALmES                                0.00      30.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      1.14      -2.19      0.00
P041790       1997 BIOVDNERSIY                                      0.00      0.00       0.00      7.10       0.00      5.09       5.00      3.14
Total:       0.00     281.33       0.00    7.10        0.00     1631.31      3.09      3.14
NICARAGUA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Mar-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                  Disbursed
IFC                                       IFC
FY Approval              Company                                 Loan    Equity       Quasi    Partic       Loan    Equity       Quasi    Partic
2000                     Finarca                                  2.00      0.60       0.00       0.00       2.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
1998                     Frutan                                  2.00       1.00       0.00       0.00       1.00       0.64       0.00      0.00
1998                     La Colonia                              4.00       0.00       0.50       0.00       2.00       0.00       0.50      0.00
1999                     SEF Dicegsa                              1.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       1.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:                9.00        1.60      0.50        0.00       6.00       0.64       0.50      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval             Company                                     Loan       Equity        Quasi        Partic
2001                    BANEXPO                                  5000.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
Total Pending Commitment:               5000.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
-67 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
NICARAGUA: Poverty Reduction and Local Development Project
Latin
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America       Low-
Nicaragua   & Carib.  Income        Development dlamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                         4.9        509     2,417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                      430      3,840       410
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                        2.1      1,955       9i8                        T
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                          2.7        1.6        1.9
Labor force (%)                                         4.0        2,5       2.3      GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                 capita                         nrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)    48
Urban population (% of total population)                 56         75        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         66         70        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live birfhs)                 40         31        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               20          8        43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)        67         75        64
Illiteracy(% of population age 15+)                      20         12        39
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   101        113        96             '       caragua
Male                                                  100          -       102                  - Low-income group
Female                                                102                   86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1908      1999
Economic ratlo'
GDP (US$ bi/lions)                             1.e      1.0        2.1       2.3
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                  -5.7     27.5       33.4      42.4
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP             42.0     32.5       35.8      33.6                      Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     8.2     -5.2       -8.6      -12.6
Gross national savings/GDP                    -0.9    -26.1       -5.7      -7.2
Current account balance/GDP                    2.5    -53.2      -29.4     -36.9      Dmt
Interest payments/GDP                          2.3      0.2        4.0       5.2      Domestc                      Investment
Totai debt/GDP                                97,8    952.5      280.7     281.0       avigs
Total debt servicelexpons                      8.9      3.3       23.2      27,6
Present value of debtUGDP                                        2464 -4
Present value of debt/exports                                    484,1
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   199903
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  -1.0      2.8      41         7.0       6.2                    Nicaragua
GNP per capita                       -4.4      2.2      6.4        4.6       3.7                 - Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        -7.4      7.9       0.2       6.7       4.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            o
Agriculture                                   28.3      32.0      33.0       31.6
industry                                      28.6     22.3       21.6      22.8      20
Manufacturing                               24.6      17.6       15.1      14.4
Services                                      43.1     45.7       45.4      45.7       5    7         ,
95 95   97   98   99
Private consumption                           74.0     78.5       92.4      94.4    -20
General government consumption                17.9     26.7       16.3      18.2                     GDI    -- GDP
Imports of goods and services                 28.1     65.2       77.9      88.7
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999     Growth of exports and imports l%l
(average annual growmth) 
Agriculture                                    -2.6      4.7       3.5        4.8    205--
Industry                                      -0.7      3.4        5.1      12.6    10|
Manufacturing                               -1.4       1.4        2.1       3.3
Services                                      -0.4       1.3       3.7        4.5         si
94   95   9S   97   98   99 
Private consumption                           -3.5      4.5       10.4        5.6    .s-
General government consumption                 7.3      -3.0       0.1        9.6
Gross domestic investment                     -3.0      10.0      13.5       39.8     20
Imports of goods and services                 -0.6       9.0      12.9       19.8              -Exports   -nImportu           |
Gross national product                        -1.6       5.1       9.3        7.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 68 -



AVicaragua
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prIces                              1979      1989      1998      1999      Inflatlon (%)
(%/ change)                                                                         3c 
Consumerprices                                48.1  4,709.3       13.0      11.2    20
Implicit GDP deflator                         31.7  4,709.3       13.0      11.2
Government flnance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  c
Current revenue                                 ..       ..       26.2      25.1             94   95   9f    9'    99    9
Current budget balance                           ..      ..        5.0       5.4                  GDP deltator  -0  CPi
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..       -4.8    -11.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1979      1989      1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS r1Iil.)
Total exports (fob)                           567       311        573      544      2,000
Coffee                                       159       90        173       135
Shrimp and lobster                            22       11         79        86     1.5                         _
Manufactures                                 118       48        125       109
Total imports (cif                             360      615      1.492     1,846     1.fl0
Food                                          78       90        357       441
Fuel and energy                               76       94        144       161
Capital goods                                 46      200        452       597        o
93  94  96  99  91  99   9
Export price index (1995=100)                  65        78         90       83
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                      56       81        112      109                  *Exports      *imports
Termsoftrade (1995=100)                        116       97         81        76
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1979      1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                 623       333       830       839       o
Importsofgoodsandservices                     511       667      1,517     1,800
Resource balance                               112     -334       -687     -961
Net income                                     -73     -205       -170     -176        -                         I    t '
Net current transfers                            0        0       232       300
Current account balance                         39     -539       -626     -837      40*
Financing items (net)                          -42      471       620       955
Changes in net reserves                          3       68          6      -118    -so
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ milhons)          156      164       357       510
Conversion rate (DEC, locaflUS$)           1.85E-9  3.02E-3       10.6      11.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998     1999              ___
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of 1999 debt (UJSS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         1,533    9,651      5,968     6,372
IBRD                                         85      221         15         9                  G:750 A: 9  B:59
IDA                                          23       60        487       598
C:: 49
Total debt service                              56       11        251      321           FA49
IBRD                                           8        0         11        7'
IDA                                           0         0         4         5
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                     D: 1,567
Official grants                              45       173       345       310
Official creditors                           99       570       187       135
Privatecreditors                             -5        11       -13        18
Foreign direct investment                      3        0        184      143
Portfolio equity                              0         0         0         C0            E: 2.990
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0        0       238        91      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 8         0        105      120        - IDA    D - Other mulUlateral  F - Privale
Principal repayments                           4        0         10        7      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Netflows                                       5        0        95       114
Interest payments                             5         0         5         5
Net transfers                                  0        0        90       108
Development Economics                                                                                                   9/12100
- 69 -



Additional
Annex 11
Monitoring and Evaluation Strategy
FISE's Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system tracks FISE's success in achieving the desired
outputs and impacts outlined in the above logical framework using the following mechanisms,
which are applied in addition to the standard audits conducted of Bank-financed projects:
Management Information System/Key Performance Indicators. FISE has a comprehensive,
but fragmented management information system that collects data on the physical, implementation
and financial status of all subprojects. The MIS is used to produced a series of Key Performance
Indicators that allow FISE and its supporters to track subprojects. The MIS will be updated and
streamlined to (i) allow for improved overall monitoring by introducing compatibility across the
various sub-components of the MIS; and (ii) include the collection of data as part of the
subproject appraisal process that will be used as baseline data and to enhance the economic
analysis of subprojects.
Poverty Map. The FISE poverty map will continue to be used as guide for the geographical
targeting of resources across municipalities with different poverty levels. In addition, the poverty
map is currently being updated, using the results of the 1998/9 LSMS, which will allow for
sub-regional measures of poverty that can be used as a planning tool by local governments as they
assume increased responsibility for the allocation of resources within municipalities.
The Quality of Vertical Projects Monitoring System is a management information system
launched in 1998, and applied to a sample of vertical sub-projects such as education and health
infrastructure investments. This system evaluates the physical quality of FISE sub-projects by
measuring adherence to environmental standards, the quality of construction materials and
processes, labor usage, costs and time frames to complete the sub-projects. The evaluation takes
place at various stages of the sub-project cycle, identifies the origin of problems associated with
the sub-project and encourages dialogue between external supervisors, the construction team and
FISE inspectors and coordinators who oversee sub-project implementation.
The annual Qualitative Beneficiary Assessment, started in 1996, assesses a sample of 1-2 year
old FISE sub-projects and interviews individuals associated with FISE's investment, including
community members, focus group participants, direct users of the FISE investment and
government technical staff. The qualitative assessment determines the priority that the community
gave the FISE sub-project relative to other projects, satisfaction with the FISE investment,
community participation, psychological well-being, employment generation, the level of
participation of government entities, future priorities and community perceptions of FISE. As in
1998, when the external impact evaluation was conducted, the sample of communities for the
Qualitative Beneficiary Assessment will be drawn as a sub-sample of the sub-projects selected for
the Impact Evaluation. The combination of the qualitative methodologies applied in the
beneficiary assessment with the quantitative household and project survey-based assessments
conducted in the external impact evaluation allows for triangulation of the evaluation results using
- 70 -



two separate methodologies, and provides depth to the impact analysis results by lending voice to
community-based focus groups and key informants.
External Impact Evaluation. The first external impact evaluation, conducted in 1998-1999,
covered FISE social infrastructure sub-projects completed from January 1994 to June 1997 with
respect to: (i) targeting of the poorest municipalities, communities, and households; (ii)
community priorities and participation; (iii) sub-projects' utilization rates, and operational and
physical sustainability; and (iv) impact on beneficiaries' health and education status. The
evaluation methodology used results from the 1998 Living Standards Measurement Survey
(LSMS) to compared results from households and projects benefiting from FISE sub-projects to a
control group that not benefited from a similar FISE-financed sub-project. This impact evaluation
methodology will be mainstreamed with evaluations conducted approximately every -four years in
conjunction with the application of the LSMS.
Pilot Project Monitoring and Evaluation. An evaluation component will be included as part of
the requirement for financing pilot sub-projects under the Innovation Fund. In addition, FISE will
include sub-projects financed through the Innovation Fund in its MIS system and conduct its own
evaluations of these sub-projects on a sample basis as part of one or more of the existing
evaluation activities.
The challenge for the FISE in implementing the Poverty Reduction and Local Development
Project with respect to M&E will be (i) to streamline existing M&E systems; and (ii) to ensure
that the existing M&E system is flexible enough to meaningfully incorporate both new
sub-projects such as those financed under the Innovation Fund and new implementation
arrangements such as the emphasis on strengthening local capacity. As part of project preparation,
the Bank has assisted FISE in developing an integrated monitoring and evaluation system. Given
the additional importance of M&E in a dynamic, decentralized environment, FISE haLs agreed that
an M&E unit be set up to manage these issues and systems and to ensure their relevance to
strategic planning and operations.
- 71 -



Additional
Annex 12
Social Assessment and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP)
A. Introduction
The IPDP is a joint effort of the Emergency Social Investment Fund (FISE), the indigenous
communities of RAAN, RAAS and Cua Bocay, the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB)-assisted Programn for the Atlantic Coast, and the World Bank team. The IPDP proposes a
Community-based prograrn, Programa de Desarrollo Local para Pueblos Indigenas y Negros de
Nicaragua (PDL-PINN, specifically targeted to indigenous communities. In the context of
Nicaragua, "indigenous" refers to descendants of the Mesoamerican Mayan, the South American
Chibchas, or those of African-Caribbean descent living in extreme poverty conditions. The
program proposed below is decentralized, and locally articulated and managed, and seeks to
provide the training, tools, and opportunities for conmmunity groups to prioritize and implement
their most urgently needed small-scale sub-projects. The program is a follow-up to the
Micro-Planning Strategy for Municipalities with Indigenous Populations, which was piloted under
the ongoing Third FISE Project in the Municipalities of Cua Bocay (Jinotega) and Siuna (RAAN)
in 1998-1999, and assessed by an Environmental and Social team of international consultants in
1999. The latter study provided the guidelines for culturally and environmentally sustainable
implementation, and is reflected in the revised IPDP.
The social assessment took into account the results of studies and consultations with the
Government at the central, municipal, and local levels, as well as consultations with civil society,
which were carried out over the period 1997-2000, and included: (i) the LSMS and the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Study (PRSP), (ii) the Strengthened Poverty Reduction Strategy (SPRS) and
the Consultations on the Reconstruction and Transformation of Nicaragua after Hurricane Mitch
in 1999, and (iii) the Poverty Study and Poverty Map in 2000. The assessment analyzed the
conditions of the regions suffering from extreme poverty, and agreed with the Government on the
proposed PDL-PINN Program. Further consultations with stakeholders and the beneficiary
population are part of the participatory process built-into the proposed program for Indigenous
Peoples in extreme poverty conditions. The beneficiary indigenous communities, their traditional
authorities, and local NGOs will manage the process with the cooperation of the Municipal and
Regional authorities.
B. The Indigenous Peoples on the Atlantic Coast and Jinotega
According to the UNDP Report on Human Development in Nicaragua 2000 (El Desarrollo
Humano en Nicaragua 2000. Equidadpara Superar la Vulnerabilidad. Managua, Nicaragua),
population density and isolation of RAAN and RAAS play an important role in development. The
country has 5,074,000 inhabitants in a geographic area of 120,000 Km2. The majority (89
percent) live on the Pacific Coast and central regions (the "production corridor"), and the
remaining 11 percent of the population (560,000) live on 50,000 Km2 of the Atlantic Coast.
Density on the Pacific may be as large as 458.5 inhab/Km2 for Masaya, or as small as 65
- 72 -



inhab/Km2 in Matagalpa, as compared to only 7.3 inhab/Km2 in RAAN and 11.36 inhab/Km2 in
RAAS, thus making service provision much more difficult in the Atlantic Coast.
From the Poverty Assessment and Poverty Map 2000, it is evident that the Atlantic Coastal
Region (RAAN and RAAS) is among the country's poorest (Nicaragua Poverty Assessment. Vol
1, June 2000). This is also a region with a heavy concentration of indigenous peoples. Although
one can observe the overlap of 'indigenous and poverty', the census and other studies do not
discriminate between indigenous/creole and non-indigenous, making the analysis of the
socio-economic conditions of this strata of population difficult. Moreover, the sample size taken
on the Atlantic Coast is commonly too small to be meaningful.
Poverty in the Atlantic Coast region: The Atlantic Rural was the second poorest region in 1993
after Central Rural, but it is now the poorest region with nearly 80 percent of the population
living in poverty. The Nicaragua Poverty Assessment from June 2000 reveals that the region has
the highest extreme poverty rates in the country, 17 percent urban and 41 percent rural. Its social
indicators are not only the worst as compared to other regions, but they show very little progress
since 1993. Births per woman are the highest at 3.7, compared to a national average of 2.5.
Education and health indicators show almost no progress: two-fifths of 7-12 year-old children are
not attending school, unchanged from 1993; close to 80 percent of births remain non-institutional;
and the incidence of diarrhea in children under six increased slightly to 29 percent in 1998.
Housing and infrastructure conditions are also outstandingly poor, and access to safe water,
latrines and electricity shows a deterioration since 1993.
Ethnicity and mult-lingualism: Ethnicity is difficult to define in some areas, as migration is
common. Still, out of the 250 indigenous/creole communities identified, 166 may be Miskito, 34
Mayagna, and the rest mixed. Table I gives an approximation of the ethnic distributlion in the
Atlantic Region. The most common languages are Spanish, Miskito, Creole English, Garifuna,
Mayangna. The bi-lingualism variable will be taken into account for all activities of PDL-PINN,
particularly for community consultations for subproject prioritization and planning, and training
activities for implementation and sustainability.
- 73 -



Table 1: Distribution of ethnic groups in RAAN and RAAS
Municipality     Miskito %    Mestizo %    Mayagna %    Creole %       Garifona %   Rama %
Puerto Cabezas        74           17            1            8
Waspam                86           12            1            1
Prinzapolka           75           15            1            9
Bonanza               26           70            3            1
Rosita                15           81            3            1
Siuna                  1           97            2
Bluefields            3            57                         36            2          2
Laguna Perlas         25           25                         25           25
Desembocadura         25           50           25
Cruz Rio G.           25           50           25
Corn Island           10           20                         70
Kukra Hill            10           20                         70
Source: "Demografia de la R4AN" by Hans Petter Bulloven and Hai Almquist Bulloven, Intercultural
Education Bilingual Program Centro de Investigaciones y Documentaci6n de la Costa AtlAntica,
1993. Calculations for Bluefields are by Proyecto Transmisi6n de Gobiernos Locales, 1996-97
INIFOM-AMUNIC.
General Profile of Ethinic Groups
The Mestizo originate in the Eastern and Central regions of the country. Migration to the Atlantic
Coast started as early as the mid-19th century. They account for 42 percent of the total
population or the Atlantic Coastal Region. They speak Spanish.
The Miskito is the largest non-mestizo group; they live mostly in the (RAAN), along the Wanki
(Coco) River, which splits the Moskitia in two (Nicaragua and Honduras). There are also Miskito
communities spread in RAAS. Their language is Miskito, spoken by a large mono-lingual
population (especially women and children).
The Mayangna (or Sumo) include three distinctive groups: Panamahka, Itwhka, and Ulwa. Their
communities are widely dispersed. They live mostly in RAAN. Their language is Mayangna. There
are only a few communities which are totally mono-lingual,for example the Sikilta community.
The Garifona (or Black Caribbean), a mix of indigenous people and African slaves living in the
British colonies of the Caribbean. They live mostly in RAAS. Although their native language is
Garifona, most of them are bilingual.
- 74 -



The Rama were almost exterminated by Spanish and British colonization. There are close to
2,000 survivors, who live in Rama Cay, close to the Bluefields Bay. Their culture and language
(Rama) are slowly disappearing.
The Creole are the oldest non-indigenous group. They are slave descendants from survivors of
ship wrecks during the early Spanish colonization. The Creole population is approximately
one-third of the RAAS population, concentrated in the Bluefields area. Their native language is
Creole-English.
C. Poverty Map and Indigenous Populations
One of the largest areas of extreme poverty is that which includes all of the municipadities of
RAAN, the North of RAAS, and part of the Department of Jinotega, namely Cua Bocay and
Wiwili. The Poverty Map 2000 shows that 15 out of the 32 municipalities in extreme poverty in
the country overlap with indigenous regions, as follows:
- 75 -



Table 2: Demography, Poverty Index, Urban and Rural Poverty Rates
Municipality    Poverty    Population    Populatation   %      % rural   % extreme       Poverty     Distribution
strata       in            in        urban    pop.      poverty in   Index (%)**    relative to
1995         1999*       pop.              rural areas**                population
US$
Prinzapolka         Severe       4,312          5,045     6        94         96.6          90.9                X
Waspan              Severe      28,972         33,897    15        85         95.0          83.0                X
Desembocadur        Severe       2,850          3,334    60        40         55.7          76.6                X
de Rio Grande
Bonanza             Severe      11,014         12,886    38        62         94.7          60.3
Pto Cabezas         Severe      37,133         43,446    47        43         84.0          57.1
Cua-Bocay***        Severe      56,337         64,787                         97.7          76.9                X
Wiwili              Severe      37,949         43,641                         96.0          85.4
Ayote               Severe       8,497          9,771                         71.1          82.2
Waslala             Severe      32,785         37,703                         94.5          78.4
Cruz Rio            Severe      13,586         15,895     7        93         94.9          80.0                X
Grande
Siuna***            Severe      52,989         61,997    16        84         93.6          76.5                X
Bocana de           Severe      32,887         38,447    10        90         91.7          79.4
Paiwas
El Tortuguero       Severe       8,672         10,146     9        91         88.2          73.8
Rosita              Severe      14,167         16,575    41        59         81.4          66.1
Wiwili de Abajo     Severe      13,880         15,962    =                    87.5          80.0
Sources: * El Desarrollo Humano en Nicaragua 2000. Proyecciones de poblaci6n.
**Indicators of the Nicaraguan Poverty Map by Municipalities 2000.
***Microplanificaci6n se lIev6 a cabo en 1999-2000.
The above municipalities are characterized by (i) low consumption indicators, (ii) high
cost-of-living relative to wages, (iii) poor access to services, (iv) high indices of malnutrition, (v)
high rates of unemployment, (vi) low schooling levels for school-age children and high adult
illiteracy, (vii) high rural poverty, (viii) high infant mortality rates, (ix) seasonal migration patterns
in each area, (x) multicultural and multilingual groups, (xi) geographic isolation, (xii) shortage of
teachers, and (xiii) land tenure conflicts still a concern.
- 76 -



D. The Community-Based Pilot Program: Programa de Desarrollo Local para ]Pueblos
Indigenas y Negros de Nicaragua (PDL-PINN)
Pilot Program Rationale
The ongoing Third FISE Project included an IPDP aimed at the implementation of a pilot
Micro-Planning Program with an indigenous focus in two municipalities, Cua Bocay (Jinotega)
and Siuna (RAAN). The participatory Municipal Investment Plans coming out of the pilot
included the traditional sub-projects of the FISE menu and a large number of small non-FISE
sub-projects. A Social and Environmental Feasibility Study of these plans was carried out by a
team of international consultants, and recommended implementation options with appropriate
local technology. Although the sub-projects on the FISE menu were partially implemented, the
rest was not, since their implementation would take special operational procedures outside FISE's
standard Operational Manual. Therefore, the currently proposed PDL-PINN Program would (i)
complete the implementation of the two previous Municipal Investment Plans, and (ii) implement
Local Plans in four additional municipalities. The pilot would provide a testing ground for
small-scale subprojects implemented by local NGOs and the communities themselves. This, in
turn, would help FISE (i) open up and expand its subproject menu, and (ii) delegate subproject
implementation to local NGOs and community-based organizations (CBOs).
Pilot Program Objective
The proposed PDL-PINN is a three-year program aimed at acquiring experience, testing new
contractual procedures, and drawing conclusions from lessons learned. This will provide FISE
with the tools to decide on the "which, how, and when" of main-streaming these activities in its
future operations.
Development Objective
To respond to the emergent needs of Indigenous and Afro-Nicaraguan populations suffering from
extreme poverty in six municipalities of RAAN, RAAS and Jinotega. The PDL-PIN:N Program
will transfer know-how technology to communities to improve their development conditions, by
focusing on their opportunities, capacities and strengths, rather than on problems.
Municipal Selection Criteria
The municipalities of Cua Bocay and Siuna were chosen to be part of the pilot program because
they already underwent the Micro-Planning process with a focus on indigenous and gender issues.
The other four municipalities selected are Prinzapolka, Waspan (RAAN) and Cruz del Rio Grande
and Desembocadura del Rio Grande (RAAS), since they are municipalities which have the highest
indices of rural population in extreme poverty, and the highest demand for basic infrastructure.
- 77 -



Operational framework
Operationally, this is a three-year pilot program which would (i) carry out a Participatory
Diagnostic Assessment of urgent needs in four municipalities, based on the potential of the
communities to use development 'opportunities', and implement the prioritized sub-projects
selected by those communities, (ii) validate and implement the community-based sub-projects
resulting from the Micro-Planning process in Cua Bocay and Siuna in 1999-2000, which have not
yet been implemented; and (iii) monitor and evaluate the social gains brought by the pilot
program, based on a set of economic and social indicators.
Eligibility, selection criteria, performance indicators.
The operational directives for the PDL-PINN will describe the procedures for subproject
selection, and will be summarized in an Evaluation Matrix which should at least ensure that: (i)
the project benefits a large number of community members including women, children and the
elderly; (ii) the majority of the beneficiaries are indigenous/creole; (iii) the community provides a
substantial contribution in cash or kind; (iv) implementation is participated in by the community,
(v) the sustainability plan is viable, (vi) subprojects directed at supporting women's groups, and
(vii) subprojects prioritized/implemented by women.
As mentioned above, the IPDP for the ongoing Third FISE Project already provided the tools for
a pilot Micro-Planning Program with a special indigenous and gender focus in the municipalities
of Siuna (RAAN) and Cua Bocay (Jinotega). As also mentioned, in those municipalities, the
Municipal Investment Plans were implemented to a great extent, except for small-scale
sub-projects which were not part of FISE's menu. However, the latter could most likely have a
substantial social impact on the communities, and will therefore be implemented under the
proposed PDL-PINN. Complementary to the above, a participatory diagnostic appraisal will be
carried out in four other municipalities under the pilot. The subprojects thus prioritized will be
implemented with the participation of the community.
Under the open menu of PDL-PINN, the program will encourage the prioritization of
community-based cultural activities (reconstruction of historic buildings, sponsoring of youth
festivals, artisan production, establishment of local libraries or museums, etc.), in order to
reinforce the local culture, and promote regional identity.
Program Component Description
The components of PDL-PINN are: (I) Implementation of small-scale subprojects; and (II)
Capacity building of communities. Both components seek to strengthen the local capacities of the
indigenous populations to formulate in a participatory manner a Local Development Plan, to
organize the local implementation of packages of sub-projects through NGOs, to implement social
control and pre-established monitoring mechanisms, to assist in sub-project supervision, and to
organize a capacity building program for Subproject Maintenance Committees.
- 78 -



The pilot's Training Component will be the single most important component, since it includes: (i)
capacity building of NGOs contracted as administrators; (ii) community training for sub-project
selection, organization, implementation, monitoring and sustainability; and (iii) stakeholder
training for PDL-PINN program support.
Institutional Arrangements
The PDL-PINN will be managed by a Program Coordinator located in FISE/Managua, who will
guide the regional activities through two regional offices. Each regional office will be staffed with
one Coordinator and one Assistant/accountant. The centml coordination could possibly be
located in the same building as the IDB-supported Atlantic Coast Projects. The regional offices
will be located in the Regional Technical Offices (OTR) of Bluefields and Puerto Cabezas (the
latter to be established with IDB support in February 2001). The offices will be equipped, and an
operational directive will describe the TOR for each office and staff member.
The Coordinator in Managua will bear the overall responsibility for the program, the recruitment
of staff for the regional offices, the contracting of administrating NGOs, and PDL-PINN program
administration, supervision, monitoring and evaluation.
A Regional Advisory Committee comprised of representatives of the indigenous and Afro leaders,
the regional governments, and universities BICU (RAAN) and URACCAN (RAAS), would be
formed at project launch.
Local Program Administration
One Administrating NGO per participating municipality will be selected after a bidding process is
carried out in accordance with Bank procedures. Administrating firms will be selected based on
their experience working with indigenous peoples in development projects which emphasize social
and environmental aspects.
Gender Strategy
The operational directive for the PDL-PINN will prescribe the same mechanisms insitalled in the
communities for the Participatory Micro-Planning process. Women's' participation in each of the
stages of the Program (diagnostic appraisal at the local level, project prioritization, training
exercises). The following characteristics will be ranked high among the sub-project selection
criteria: (i) sub-projects directed at supporting women's groups, (ii) sub-projects
prioritized/implemented by women.
Monitoring and Evaluation
A monitoring and evaluation plan will be elaborated for the PDL-PINN as part of project
preparation. Social and economic indicators should reflect the integrated social strategy along
with the indigenous and gender program goals. A mid-term and an impact evaluation will be
carried out by independent consulting firms or individuals. The local universities BICU (RAAN)
- 79 -



and URACCAN (RAAS) will be invited to participate in the process.
IPDP costs by component
The pilot program (PDL-PINN) would have the following components:
Component I. Community-based sub-projects including capacity building (US$2.5 million)
(a) Diagnostic exercise US$ 80,000
(b) Sub-project implementation and community training, US$ 2.4
(c) Workshops with Administrator NGOs, Indigenous Authorities,
Municipal Governments, etc. US$20,000
Component II Program Administration (includes hotel, subsistence, transport) in Managua,
RAAN and RAAS (US$300,000)
(a) Salaries, US$ 240.000
(b) Equipment US$ 60.000
Component III Information, Education and Communication (US$40,000)
Component IV Monitoring and Evaluation (US$160,000)
(a) Installation of monitoring system
(b) Mid-term and impact evaluation
Total US$ 3,000,000
Proposed Program Implementation Plan
A Program Implementation Plan (PIP) has been submitted by the FISE to the Bank for approval.
E. Complementarity of the PDL-PINN for the Atlantic Coast Region, with the IDB-assisted
Program for the Atlantic Coast
The IDB-assisted Program for the Atlantic Coast (US$8.7 million) seeks to strengthen the
regional and municipal governments for them to carry out participatory micro-planning. This
program includes in its components:
I . Institutional strengthening of regional governments (US$2.5 million)
2.    Local investments: (i) Participatory Planning Methodology (US$400,000); and
(ii) Local investments resulting from MPP (US$1.6 million)
3.   Innovative interventions in health and education (US$3.2 million)
4.    Program administration (US$1 million)
- 80 -



The proposed World Bank-assisted pilot program and the IDB-supported project for the Atlantic
Coast will seek to complement, support and provide sustainability to one another. The
IDB-supported program focuses on strengthening regional and local governments. T'he World
Bank pilot supports decentralization and seeks to install capacities in coastal communities to be
able to respond to their needs with local solutions. The pilot will experience with new project
types/options and test new contractual procedures to assist FISE in opening the project menu and
main-streaming some non-traditional projects in isolated regions of Nicaragua.
-81 -



Additional
Annex 13
Municipal and Community Strengthening Program
Background
During the first years of FISE's existence, the Social Investment Fund did not give a high priority
to beneficiary participation and community development to ensure adequate sub-project
prioritization and sustainability. But the importance of these issues soon became prevalent. At
first, Government and Bank thinking had been that the responsible line agencies, such as the
ministries responsible for education and health, should and could provide for such operation and
maintenance. But, despite the signing of agreements between FISE and those ministries, and the
appointment of official contact persons, the ministries were too often not able to deliver on their
promises to ensure the proper staffing, equipping, and maintenance of completed facilities.
Consequently, later cooperation between FISE and the Bank provided for increasing support
aimed at ensuring the involvement of the final beneficiaries in the full sub-project cycle, and thus
their identification with the sub-projects. The design and development of this support reflects the
local political, social, and cultural requirements, including the need for a substantial role to be
played by the municipal governments. With the emerging role of local governments and their
potential as local coordinators, the Government and FISE decided local governments should and
could play a major role in coordinating and supporting communities in identifying their priority
needs and managing the sub-project cycle, including proper sub-project maintenance.
1. Cooperation between FISE and INIFOM
From the beginning of its Municipal Strengthening Program, FISE has been coordinating its
activities with JNIFOM counting on its expertise in municipal development including planning,
administration, budgeting etc.. However, coordination between the two institutions has not
always been optimal due to different work programs and potential competition. INIFOM (as
FISE) has been receiving support from a variety donors, including USAID, the Danish
International Aid Agency (DANIDA), the German Technical Cooperation Agency (GTZ), and the
Bank through its rural development projects (PROTIERRA I and II) aimed at strengthening rural
municipalities. The engagement of a multitude of donors with isolated projects and different
approaches resulted in a variety of municipal capacity building programs with somewhat different
objectives and approaches. More recently, the Government and donors have attempted to achieve
better coordination among the projects that are hosted by INIFOM. The institution is now aiming
to develop norms and tools for a more coherent municipal development strategy trying to
integrate the ongoing and new programs into a uniform approach.
Today, FISE is cooperating increasingly with INIFOM, to ensure that it operates within the policy
guidelines set by the Institute and to avoid duplication of effort in municipalities covered by more
than one donor program. This applies in particular to the Bank-supported program PROTIERRA
of support for INIFOM, for which a second IDA credit is currently being prepared. The Executive
President of FISE is on the Board of INIFOM, and the Head of INIFOM is on the Board of FISE.
- 82 -



In principle, the two institutions are seen as being distinct and complementary to each other in
terms of (i) their general mandate and scope (INIFOM for being the Institute for Mumicipal
Development and therefore having broader responsibilities, FISE for strengthening rnunicipalities
in project cycle management), and (ii) their instruments (INIFOM through direct fiscal transfer,
FISE through public investment program) (for more detail see PAD of PROTIERRk II project).
Collaboration between INIFOM and FISE has particularly progressed during the last year with
regard to two important issues: (i) With regard to the Participatory Municipal Planning process,
the institutions have developed a common understanding and a unified Operational Manual as well
as regional division of labor for supporting municipalities in their planning efforts. (ii) In relation
to the computerized systems needed for project management, FISE and INIFOM are presently in
the process of learning from each other and in designing a system that is adequate to the divers
needs of the local governments. An institutional agreement has been signed in November 2000 to
ensure coherence of activities of the institutions which are both essential for the country's
development. An operational directive to the agreement is presently worked out by a technical
committee with agreed procedures and time tables. During project irnplementation, ithe
implementation of the operational directive will be supervised jointly by Bank staff responsible for
projects with FISE and INIFOM. It is worthwhile mentioning that in this process, both
institutions have realized that they are rather allies in the country's decentralization process than
competitors.
II. FISE Municipal and Community Strengthening Program
In collaboration with INIFOM, the Nicaraguan Municipal Development Institute, FISE started a
Municipal and Community Strengthening Program in 1998 which included participatory micro
planning at the local level in 60 municipalities, the establishment of a preventive maintenance fund,
a capacity building program for communities, and the gradual decentralization of sub-project
management to the local governments.
(i) Participatory Micro Planning (MPP) and Municipal Investment Plans (PIM)
In order to imnprove targeting and ensure that investments actually reflect communities' priorities,
FISE and INIFOM jointly started an initiative in 1997 to develop a simple methodology for a
participatory planning process (MPP) at the municipal level. The methodology was first tested in
5 municipalities and basically supports (i) communities in identifying and prioritizing; their priority
needs, and (ii) local governments in arranging for well-organized townhall meetings in which
priority needs are pronounced and discussed. Based on this process, the municipal governments
draft a municipal investment plans (PIM), which then could be submitted to FISE and others for
support. To facilitate the MPP process, FISE contracted NGOs, which received training at FISE
headquarters, to assist and ensure broad participation and transparency throughout the process.
To date, 60 municipalities (35 extremely poor and 25 of high poverty) have developed a
three-year PIM under this methodology with support from FISE and another 32 have done so
with support from PROTIERRA/INIFOM. Consequently, they have signed a framework
agreement with FISE to implement part of the plan. In addition, about 3,000 local project
committees have been trained in social audits, as well as project operation and maintenance.
- 83 -



in preparation of the new FISE program 2001 to 2004, the methodology of the municipal
planning process has been revised in a joint effort by FISE and INIFOM. In addition to the
development of a three year municipal investment plan, the methodology now includes strategic
planning elements as well as the preparation of an annual municipal budget. FISE has presented a
revised Operational Manual for the participatory planning process which is presently discussed
with all relevant actors and expected to be adopted within the next months. FISE has committed
itself to ensure the implementation of the participatory micro-planning process in a up to 100
municipalities in collaboration with INIFOM or others. The remaining 50 municipalities will
develop their investment plans for FISE funding without external support but based on criteria to
be agreed by FISE and the donors in order to access FISE funding. Under its new program, FISE
will only be able to finance sub-projects that have been prioritized in a participatory planning
process. More than before, the PIM is now seen to be the plan of the municipality and therefore
will serve as a basis for other sources of funding.
(ii) FISE's Preventive Maintenance Fund (FMP)
Lack of maintenance of completed facilities has for a long time been a major concern for Social
Funds and donors. In 1998, FISE established a preventive maintenance fund (FMP), with financial
support from the IDB, the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA), and the UNDP.
The FMP aimed at co-financing maintenance activities in education and health facilities built by
FISE. It is funded one-third by the municipalities/communities and two-thirds by FISE (with GoN
ftinds). Both funding and responsibilities are spelled out in detailed agreements between FISE and
the ministries, as well as FISE and those municipal governments that wish to obtain funding from
the FMP. So far, 143 municipalities have joined the scheme, with the active participation of
school and health post committees. As of December 31, 2000, the FMP had funded 2,586
sub-projects at an average cost of UJS$540. This included 1,930 pre- and primary schools (out of
a total of about 5,600 in the country) and 349 health centers (out of a total of about 920). The
FMP was initially limited to the maintenance of education and health sub-projects funded by
FISE, but has recently been opened up to all basic education and health facilities.
(iii) Sub-Project Management at the local level
In parallel with the start of the FMP pilot, FISE also carried out studies on the role to be played
by the municipal governments and the communities in managing the sub-project cycle. These
studies, funded under a Japanese PHRD grant, and later by SIDA, led to a pilot effort in a few
poor and extremely poor, small and medium-sized municipalities, and, since 1999, to a scheme
aimed at increasing delegation of sub-project management responsibilities by FISE to 9
municipalities. The selected municipalities need to have properly operating municipal technical
units (UTMs), including a minimum of capable technical and financial staff, as well as the political
will and the minimum equipment for managing projects. Based on extensive studies and
consultations with the pilot municipalities as well as donor agencies, in 2000 a scheme has been
developed by FISE in collaboration with the Centroamerican University of Managua to assess the
municipalities' financial and management capacity. The scheme divides the country's 150
municipalities in three categories. The municipalities that fall into category I are able to fully
- 84 -



manage the sub-project cycle, including contracting, for all sub-projects costing less than
US$100,000 (representing both direct contracting and three quotations). The studies suggest that
at present about 40 municipalities have the potential to take full responsibility for the sub-project
cycle over the three-year project implementation period 2001-2004. Category II currently consists
of municipalities that have the capacity to be responsible for part of the sub-project c:ycle,
including contracting, for sub-projects costing less than US$50,000. However, they still need
substantial support to manage subprojects. According to the studies, approx. 70 mun,icipalities
potentially fall into this category by the end of the mentioned period. In order to support the
municipalities of category II adequately, FISE is presently considering to set up two more
regional offices which seem most appropriate to provide these municipalilies with adequate
technical assistance and services. The remaining approx. 40 municipalities in category III are not
yet deemed to have the capacity to manage sub-projects on their own, therefore their sub-projects
will continue to be managed by FISE headquarters.
The capacity assessment of the municipalities showed that FISE's approach to decentralizing the
project cycle can not be one that fits all. To the contrary, FISE is presently developing its
decentralization strategy that would enable the institution to flexibly react to the respective
needs/capacity of the municipality. Once a strategy has been established for a municipality, FISE's
job would be to promote the municipality a higher categories (graduation concept). This concept
would be implemented with a substantial technical assistance program to improve both the
capacity of FISE staff (to be advising rather than executing) and the municipal UTMs (to be
executing rather than administering), including the temporary contracting of local consultants to
work as part of the UTM's and the provision of equipment and vehicles.
One of the lessons of the Hurricane Mitch disaster was the FISE can react much faster and
flexible if its location is closer to the clients. To get closer to municipalities and communities,
FISE has established various field offices, responsible for a variety of sub-project cycle activities
in the neighboring municipalities. The first regional office, in Matagalpa, was established in 1999,
and has already resulted in a strong relationship with the public and private sectors in its area.
Two further field offices are expected to be established during the project implementation period,
and the workforce at headquarters in Managua is expected to be diminished as feasible. However,
the opening of field office is expected to raise overhead costs of FISE, presently already at 11.5%.
FISE is also expected to establish various small offices in the Atlantic Coast region, in a special
effort, supported by the IDB, to assist the empowerment of the poorest communities in this
region. The IDB loan will provide mainly for technical assistance. The pilot program for
indigenous people will take advantage of these offices and locate specialized staff in them in order
to implement the IPDP (see Annex 12).
- 85-



Additional
Annex 14
FISE's Environmental Evaluation System
Background
1. The Environmental Unit (UA) of the Nicaragua Social Investment Fund (FISE) was created in
1996 to handle all environmental aspects related to subprojects financed by the FISE. The UA is
staffed by a manager and two technical professionals. The staff consist of two ecologists (one of
whom is chief of the UA) and a civil/environmental engineer. All are involved in site visits and
evaluation of sub-projects.
2. The UA is responsible for implementing the Environmental Management System (SISGA) of
the FISE. The SISGA's primary objectives are to: (a) incorporate environmental criteria into the
project cycle which will guarantee the rational and sustainable use of Nicaragua's natural resource
base; (b) ensure that environmental impacts and mitigation measures are considered in the design
and implementation of sub-projects; and (c) consolidate within FISE the environmental standards
promulgated by the Ministry of Environment (MARENA) and by other relevant government
agencies.
3. In 1998, the IDB financed construction of a separate office space for the UA, and equipped it
with two computers, a printer, and a vehicle to conduct site visits. The UA therefore seems to be
adequately equipped to carry out its duties.
Current Tasks and Responsibilities of the UA within FISE
4. The duties of the UA have evolved over the last four years. Today, the UA is much more fully
involved in all stages of the project cycle. Its tasks involve the following:
A. Preparation of environmental checklists and other documents
5. The UA created environmental checklists several years ago for project formulators, evaluators,
and supervisors, contractors, and auditors. These checklists have been changed and improved on
at least two occasions; however, it was finally decided that the UA should prepare separate
checklists that will be specific to each type of subproject that the FISE finances. The FISE hired a
consultant to who recently completed this work; in addition, the FISE recently hired a consultant
who produced the following documents:
*  Twelve Environmental Standards (Normas Ambientales) for the FISE: This is a new
instrument that includes physical-environmental conditions for each type of sub-project, and to
which the FISE must adhere in order to be in compliance with prevailing national legislation.
These norns have been submitted to MARENA for its review, and have formed the basis for
the environmental indicators recently submitted to the Bank for its clearance.
*  Site selection methodology guide: Although the original checklists included questions on
- 86 -



project siting, the UA recently prepared a methodology guide for the evaluation of site
selection, as its experience has shown that many negative environmental impacts resulted from
inappropriate siting of subprojects. This document, as well as the UA's continued guidance in
this area, is key not only to FISE subprojects, but to the proposed execution by FISE of
disaster management subprojects proposed under a separate Bank operation (the Natural
Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project, currently under preparation).
* Revised environmental documents and checklists for each stage of the project cycle,
mentioned above.
* Environmental indicators, to be incorporated into and tracked as part of FISE's monitoring
and evaluation system.
Each of these new documents should be operational in CY200 1; to this end, the UKA has
developed a training action plan for all levels of FISE staff: Headquarters, Technical Regional
offices, Decentralization Units, and the nine decentralized Municipal Technical Units. The
documents listed above have been provided to the LCSES department for its review prior to
negotiations.
B. Review of sub-project proposals:
6. The UA regularly checks the MIS system for sub-projects in different stages of the project
cycle (pre-implementation, evaluation, contracting, and supervision). From each stage, the UA
will select a certain number of sub-projects to review (usually 20 percent of projects per stage are
selected for desktop review, although it depends on the total number of sub-projects found in that
particular stage). The files (carpetas) are then pulled an(d reviewed by UA staff to ensure that
environmental impacts were or are being addressed. The UA will also review prolblem
sub-projects on which management has requested technical assistance. This random-sample
review results in a monthly report distributed to all managers in FISE. Similarly, the UA staff will
visit a sample number of sub-projects in the field to assess how environmental issues are being
addressed on the ground. The UA staff 's priority is to visit sub-projects that have greater
potential environmental impacts (i.e., water and sanitation).
7. If the UA detects that environmental impacts have not been adequately addressed, either
during the desk review or during site visits, they will contact the appropriate staff depending on
which stage the sub-project is in. Although the UA does not have authority to stop subprojects or
to impose sanctions, there will normally be a discussion amnong the staff on how to address the
issues at that point; the various Directors have the authority to impose sanctions on sub-projects
that have not complied with FISE requirements. Today, FISE staff are much more receptive to
the suggestions of the UA and these suggestions are typically followed, regardless of what stage
of the sub-project cycle they are made. A recent Bank supervision mission confirms this:
approximately 95 percent of sub-projects sampled complied with environmental requirements, as
opposed to 74 percent in August 1999.
- 87 -



C. Review of environmental sub-projects and sub-projects with greater significant impacts.
8. The UA reviews all "environmental" sub-projects and must provide guidance before these
subprojects can be approved. Environmental sub-projects financed under the FISE include
reforestation, watershed protection, and solid waste. No solid waste sub-projects have yet been
financed, but the FISE hopes to implement three pilot sub-projects of this type in three areas over
the next four years. In addition, the UA must review, prior to approval, all sub-projects in
Category I, which means the sub-projects have greater potential environmental impacts. These
sub-projects include water and sanitation systems, and rainwater drainage.
9. During appraisal, it was agreed with FISE management that the Environmental Unit will be
included in technical discussions related to solid waste management and rural road projects.
Given that these projects have the potential for significant environmental impacts., the Bank has
asked FISE to review the design of these two project types with full participation of the
Environmental Unit in all related technical discussions. The Bank has also required that the pilot
subproject proposals for solid waste and for rural road subprojects be submitted f or clearance to
the Bank. Furthermore, the Unit will play a more active part in FISE's decentralization process. A
start will be made by offering a broad based training on environmental issues not only for FISE
headquarters but also for municipal technical staff financed under the ongoing FISE III operation.
10. It was also agreed during appraisal that the FISE will not finance projects in protected areas
unless it receives the explicit approval of the governing Environmental Ministry MARENA.
D. Training
1 1. The UA provides training to FISE's technical staff as well as external supervisors who are
contracted to supervise on-going sub-projects. While this training has proved extremely valuable
to FISE staff, it has been recognized by the UA and recommended by the Bank that the amount of
training be increased and that the training be modified somewhat for the different audiences that
are trained (e.g., evaluators vs. supervisors). The Bank has also advised that, during the
decentralization process that FISE is currently undertaking, environmental training be provided to
local offices and municipal offices as part of the overall training FISE intends to provide to these
agencies.
E. Semester Reports
12. Every six months, the UA compiles a report on its activities and the adherence of FISE to
environmental requirements. The report also provides information on projected activities for the
next six months. The latest version of this report will be sent to the Bank in early March, for
review by LCSES staff.
- 88 -



F. Establishing Relationship with Line Ministries
13. The UA has established a good relationship with MARENA and in many cases has relied on
guidance from the Ministry on environmental issues. MARENA has in fact helped the UA create
the "normas indicativas" for FISE to follow for each type of sub-project, and helped formulate
environmental indicators for the FISE.
G. Environmental Indicators for FISE
14. The UA, in conjunction with MARENA, recently sent to the Bank for its review five
environmental indicators to be included in the FISE's management information systeim. These
indicators provide a clearer picture of how the FISE is complying with the environmental norms.
Overall Quality of Sub-projects
15. The latest Bank supervision mission confirms that the overall quality of sub-projects financed
by FISE is good. Negative environmental impacts do not appear to be significant, and the Bank
recognizes FlSE's continued efforts to improve in the area of environmental evaluation.
-89 -






NICA RA G UA
MAPA DEPOBREZA
Honduras                                          4
_ -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w
Oc6ano          *                                            /
Pacifico
Mar Caribe
Rangos de la Brecha -
de Pobreza Extrema
Pobreza Severa
Pobreza A/ta                   EI4b
Pobreza Menor
Costa Rica






IBRD 31 303
NICARAGUA                                                          85o                                         84             'SM                        e3P                                                     MUNICIPAL CAPITALS
POVERTY REDUCTION AND LOCAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                      pn RANo
LOCAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM FOR INDIGENOUS AND                                                                                                                                        i2 PUERTO.CAEZAS                                                                 CHINANDEGA                      hA2
AFRO-NICARAGUAN PEOPLE ON THE ATLANTIC COAST (PDL-PINN)                                                                                                                                                                                I REonono                       Sn4eC-odo oRod                      Ino2 
5 ~~~~~~5   onTnedton                                  04MASAS
LOCAT ONFPDL PNI  (PLOTPHASI              250    MUNICIPAL CAP TALS                                                                                                                                                              So 55  SonoIdl                             N .         106  Monpc o
MSISTO [o125 000C                                 UEPARTMENT TOOT EAS                                                               ~ow58  Wn - onnn07  EN-nono-
SPANISH)  pop 195 0001                            NAT ONALCAP TAL                                                                                                                                Mosqdo                   RAAS0                          59  lon-oo                     108  oNno-oh-
- , no I nnnno                   0  ETn 1ii                     09  Cononno
*      MAYAM4G4A [pop 10211                              M I MCIA  BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                  9    e  do Po-                  '61  CHINANDEGA                 110  S, eon 
[1  ~~~~~~~~-EL,,,4  3)DEPORTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                          #10 146dm no, Io 00000   Tn, on ope
ENGIS SPEAinil l -    - pop 00 ADo                                                                              II  El Ro-                                                                                                                              63                                   CARAZP
A   AYA(,[po  17001                          -        NTERNAS ONALBOUNDAR ES                                                                        ~2 Keono Hll                                                                                            64  El RoIoo                    11'
5   Mlp10  ' 1      i Penhoro      13 Lg-un doPodon1                  65  Con-L                      112  D,-Lo
*      GARIFONA [,p 3.74C0                         HO N          D  U  R A   S                                                                                                                                                15 BEF IeLDne                                                    11e SE
5N- G.-.            LEON                      '1 4J~~~~~~~~~~~INOTEPE
-    PAVED ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                            16E OTdgo66  Acheep                                              115  ElRoe.
14  JNPAVEDROAOS                                                                                                                                                                                                          n,-,-ojojnn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' fda  S-o d-  67  ElSoon-          110  oPodoTno-
-14   --  UNPAVLD ROADS                           f NIXEb  II 27  1)  E  A  J  N   WF  G A                                      >                                       t    :                              14         8 R... Cay                        68  S-6 Sneoeo de Pe-on         117  L- eonu o
N.. EoguP,qap1 Sp---0 NUEVA  027                                                                                             z                                                                      JINOTEGA  9 -                  71  Te ca                            GRNA
'7  6                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~             ~            ~~~~~~~~~~~               ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20 WMM I  72 Quo-lgop-n1-   GRANADO
29                                                                                                                                                                                     2 ;Pi, P,&-                             E P                       120D nn
33 jas                                                                                                                                                                     "'0          do deJ 7>  +  t   ~   Fi  42 T  94    PonTonn7     121        o Di,
MA~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rlz                                                                      0111 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24 S. ..Id.1 No.rl
25 Lo C-nonn                          MO GALPAE                        RIVAS
_26 S NOTEGA                       76  R-nnn Gnde                 123  Tol
T.  53                                                                                                                                                    27 J.1                             I  MATAGALPA                     E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 nop  7   IOAGSA  2   OnooAo
: *'                        4.    :~                3:i:v:r    "'           76                                                                                                                                      28 S-oo M-b  SooR-o                                    Y127 dSnonn 
53  Qt  ti  0   /                                         *gOeO                                                         Caribbean                               39 Mecoeline                      61 lenOhnon                     120 0909~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Carbb an39825~-  29M,.1
5                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~          ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                      ~        ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.3! OCO'TA  83  CLdedZr D3o 30  AlMl.on
32 Se Ponen 0F5-d                      Son D-onion                122  Td-o
iT $1                 e Aj, r  -  ~I,, qn X ; j > s g   X   A  E.   2 ;>34 Ceded 8n6 EB o;o,oc
067                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~            ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~35 Tnded Send-n  07  M,p MopCONOO
10 i'' i j L v y ;- > 't''d ,i;F,: / -xL 5i S -' 9 L a J (; j \ j SinES E j; Ij%, j ATEMALA ' HONDU9AS Ht ! C , 'i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ e   oCHONALE
8                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~36W Mon8  MnS0ooo  1233  C.noonpo
7Qo,-                                                             134  S OTALPA
38 Tr leglpo                      90  Sl.,.e Lon                  17,   Se     do 1 .-,.
'39 SOCMOTO                      *91  00ACO                        30Sntno
40 delngo                         92  7-np                        139   SI SononnI
41 Pelnnegonn                 92  Son Lronen                  140  A-obep
42 Tolon1                         94  CLo....
43 Sn        I n"' Cono                                                RiO S0TA SOAN
13                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~              ~             ~~~~~~~~44 Son W-e  84NAGU3  141  M.,,dle
45 Leo Si=n-                      95   - FS Er-     bon.onin      142  SI Alnn-onr.
$19  46 S-n,eoOdo C-noepn         96  InpbepM                                                2001
EOSES                         98  V,lIn Ton. no onoooA        143  Been do 50600
,o    n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'   / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1A~                                                                12.       487 Pobln N-o                     98  Sen Robe nO[ So,            146  Sen Den do N.nn.
O C'FA N          94                    *                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40  4AIBACnnnn5  MA1AGU
_r     _ AOE4e!~i                                                                                                                                                                                                            -o     j- nnn  n..non              0    oo
flEL0
52  T.oT-den
MEXIC10          B       nt   VV  
GUATBE&ALA      iONDUR        .         -Copib&eecon-
120                                                                                                       0    2D   40    60    w                                                                            A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n-
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A.    e0,0,o                                                                                                                                                        n18
13  21~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NCO 
K%0METW ~                 ~                 - 00w.t 
-  7                  0                 mop~~~~~~~~~Tl   ooo pondnoodSby lb-    1*5g  BLob 1,   Opelttlw
MARH 2001



