Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3504-NI
Development Credit Agreement
(Poverty Reduction and Local Development Project)
between 
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 6, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3504-NI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 6, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to receive from the Inter American Development Bank 
(the IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) for an aggregate principal amount equivalent to 
$50,000,000 to assist in the financing of FISE’s (as defined below) annual investment 
program on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the IDB;
(C)
the Borrower intends to receive from the Kingdom of Sweden (Sweden) a 
grant (the Swedish Grant) in an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 to assist in the 
financing of FISE’s annual investment program on the terms and conditions set forth in 
an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Sweden;
(D)
the Borrower intends to receive from the Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau 
(KFW) a grant (the KFW Grant) in an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to assist in the 
financing of FISE’s annual investment program on the terms and conditions set forth in 
an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and KFW;
(E)
the Borrower intends to receive from the government of Japan a grant (the 
Page  2
Japanese Social Development Grant) in an amount equivalent to $765,000 to assist in 
the financing of community development subprojects on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Association, as 
administrator of the funds to be provided by the government of Japan; and
(F)
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines meets 
the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating Countries’ 
means, collectively, all such countries." ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which 
is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, 
such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for 
any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, 
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories 1 (a), (b) and (c), 2 (a), (b), 
(c) and (d), 3, 4 (a), (b) and (c) and 5 set forth in the table in Part A.1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
"Execution Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and FISE pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to such agreement;
(d)
"FISE" means the Borrower’s Emergency Social Investment Fund (Fondo de 
Inversión Social de Emergencia), a public, autonomous and decentralized entity of the 
Borrower, established and regulated by Decree No. 59-90 and related regulations of the 
Borrower, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Association; 
(e)
"FISE Decree" means the Borrower’s Decree No. 59-90, dated November 21, 
1990 and published in La Gaceta on December 13, 1990, as amended by decree No. 43-94, 
dated October 28, 1994, extending FISE’s duration to December 13, 1997 and decree No. 
57-98, dated August 28, 1998 and published in La Gaceta on September 4, 1998, 
extending FISE’s duration to December 31, 2004;
(f)
"Fiscal Year" means FISE’s fiscal year which commences on July 1;
(g)
"Indicators" means the performance indicators set forth in a supplemental 
letter from the Borrower to the Association of even date herewith;
(h)
"La Gaceta" means the Borrower’s Official Gazette;
Page  3
(i)
"Nicaraguan Córdobas" means the currency of the Borrower;
(j)
"Operational Manual" means the operational manual referred to under 
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; 
(k)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the plan furnished to the Association 
on March 12, 2001 which includes a timetable for implementation of the Project;
(l)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(m) 
"Protected Areas" means any and all of the protected areas of the 
Borrower as established by Law 217 and related regulations of the Borrower; 
(n)
"Requesting Entity" means a municipality, governmental or 
non-governmental entity, cooperative or community, in each case, with legal 
personality, which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual 
and which proposes to carry out or is carrying out a Subproject;
(o)
"Selected Municipality" means any of the 9 municipalities of the Borrower 
listed in Schedule 5 to this Agreement or any other municipality as the Borrower and 
the Association may agree from time to time;
(p)
"SETEC" means the Borrower’s Technical Secretariat (Secretaría Técnica de 
la Presidencia), as established by Decree 55-98 of the Borrower; 
(q)
"SETEC Agreement" means the agreement referred to under Section 3.01 (d) 
of this Agreement;
(r)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(s)
"Subproject" means a social infrastructure subproject, an economic 
infrastructure subproject, a social services subproject or such other subproject as 
the Association may agree, which is eligible for financing by FISE in accordance with 
the provisions of the Operational Manual; and
(t)
"Subproject Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between 
FISE and a Requesting Entity pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subproject Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to FISE.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty six million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 46,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
Page  4
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2011 and ending April 15, 2041. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2021 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: 
(i)
the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and
(ii)
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Page  5
Section 2.09. Unless the Association receives written notification to the 
contrary by the Minister of Finance of the Borrower, the Executive President of FISE 
(Presidente Ejecutivo, as referred to under Article 12 of the FISE Decree) is hereby 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause 
FISE, under the provisions of the Execution Agreement, to carry out the Project, with 
the assistance of SETEC with respect to Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project, all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, financial, 
administrative, economic, social and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the 
Association, with FISE for the execution of the Project, under which agreement, inter 
alia:
(i)
the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to 
FISE on a grant basis; and
(ii)
FISE shall undertake to execute the relevant parts of the Project, 
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
(c)
The Borrower shall cause FISE to enter into an agreement with each 
*Requesting Entity, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association, which shall include the Requesting Entity’s obligations to carry out the 
Subproject in question. The Borrower shall cause FISE to exercise FISE’s rights and 
carry out FISE’s obligations under each such agreement with a Requesting Entity and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change, 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive such agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)
The Borrower shall cause FISE to enter into an agreement, satisfactory to 
the Association, with SETEC for the execution of Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Execution Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Execution Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to Section 3.01 above, the Borrower undertakes 
that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree and authorize in writing: 
(a)
no Subproject may involve any of the activities listed under Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; 
(b) 
Subprojects shall be promoted, appraised, approved, carried out and 
monitored by FISE in accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in the 
Operational Manual; 
(c)
no proposals for solid waste and rural road Subprojects shall be financed 
until the Association has received a set of criteria and procedures, satisfactory to 
the Association, for environmental review of solid waste management and rural road 
Subprojects, and mitigation of possible negative environmental effects of rural road 
works (including the rules for mitigation of damages to be enforced on contractors), 
which criteria, procedures and rules shall be enforced, or caused to be enforced, by 
the Borrower; 
(d)
each Subproject to be financed under Part C.3 of the Project will be 
presented for the prior approval of the Association, and each such presentation shall 
Page  6
include the relevant social assessment, monitoring indicators and an evaluation 
methodology; 
(e)
no physical or economic involuntary displacement (as interpreted in 
accordance with the Association’s Operational Directive 4.30) shall take place as a 
consequence of the execution of the Subprojects; specifically, no person shall have, 
as a consequence of the execution of the Subprojects, his or her: (i) right, title or 
interest in any house or any other fixed or movable goods acquired or possessed, 
temporarily or permanently; or (ii) business, occupation, work or place of residence 
or habitat adversely affected; 
(f)
unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Association, with respect to 
health infrastructure Subprojects, the following conditions shall apply: 
(i)
FISE will only finance rehabilitation and replacement of existing 
infrastructure; and 
(ii)
(A)
the Subprojects shall be carried out solely within the 
departments of Masaya, Chontales, Granada, Nueva Segovia, 
Río San Juan or the Región Autónoma Atlántico Norte, or any 
other area the Association may agree upon from time to time; 
or 
(B)
the health center related to the Subproject shall be run by 
a private sector operator; or
(C)
a list of Subprojects shall be submitted for the 
Association’s prior approval;  
(g)
no Subproject shall be financed under Part C.3 (b) of the Project unless 
at least $612,000 have been disbursed to the Borrower pursuant to the Japanese Social 
Development Grant, the Borrower has executed the activities under the Japanese Social 
Development Grant in a manner satisfactory to the Association, and an implementation 
manual for the execution of Part C.3 (b) of the Project, satisfactory to the 
Association, has been furnished to the Association; and
(h)
no Subproject shall cost more than $1,000,000 equivalent.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to Section 3.01 above, the Borrower shall cause 
FISE to carry out the Project in accordance with:
(a)
an operational manual satisfactory to the Association (as supplemented by 
the implementation manual referred to in Section 3.03 (g) above), said manual to 
include, inter alia:
(i)
the criteria and procedures for promotion, identification, 
approval, implementation and monitoring of Subprojects, including, 
inter alia, the criteria to allocate funds among the different 
municipalities of the Borrower in accordance with their level of 
poverty, a positive list of Subprojects eligible for financing 
under the Project, and the obligation of municipalities or 
communities to contribute in cash or kind to the cost of the 
relevant Subproject;
(ii)
provisions regarding implementation of Subprojects by the Selected 
Municipalities; and
(iii)
the model form of standard bidding documents to be used for the 
procurement activities required under the Project.
The Operational Manual shall be subject to amendment from time to time as required by 
the execution of the Project and upon agreement by the Borrower and the Association.  
In case of any conflict between the provisions of the Operational Manual and the ones 
of this Agreement, the ones of this Agreement shall prevail;
(b)
the Project Implementation Plan, which plan shall include, inter alia, 
the procedures for preparation and implementation of Subprojects involving indigenous 
communities and women, including the criteria and special procedures related to 
Subprojects involving people residing in Protected Areas; and 
(c)
the implementation manual referred to under Section 3.03 (g) above, with 
respect to Part C.3 (b) of the Project.
Page  7
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, without limitation to the provisions of 
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement:
(a)
include in its annual budget proposals submitted to the Borrower’s 
legislative branch:
(i)
the following minimum amounts as funding for the administrative 
costs of FISE, the preventive maintenance fund referred to in 
Section 3.06 (d) (ii) (G) of this Agreement and the local 
strengthening activities set forth under Part B of the Project:
(A)
$4,800,000 equivalent for calendar year 2002;
(B)
$4,800,000 equivalent for calendar year 2003; and 
(C)
$4,800,000 equivalent for calendar year 2004; and
(ii)
funding to cover the operating costs of the schools and health 
Subprojects;
(b)
by no later than the first day of each calendar quarter during Project 
implementation (beginning from the calendar quarter starting immediately after the 
Effective Date), deposit in the account referred to in paragraph (c) below the 
counterpart funds required for the implementation of the Project during the following 
three months; and
(c)
cause FISE to open and thereafter maintain, until completion of the 
Project, an account in Nicaraguan Córdobas in a commercial bank, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, to manage the funds referred to in the 
preceding paragraphs of this Section.
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall cause FISE to:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Indicators, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
by no later than August 31 of each year, until completion of the Project, 
furnish to the Association for its approval, an annual operating plan for the 
implementation of the Project during the upcoming twelve months, such plan to 
comprise: (i) the main activities to be carried out under the Project during the 
respective year; (ii) the objectives, and expected results or outputs of such 
activities; (iii) the corresponding cost estimates and budgets, including the 
counterpart funds; (iv) the proposed revisions to the Indicators, and the Project 
Implementation Plan, if applicable; and (v) the relevant institutional arrangements 
and responsibilities;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and 
furnish to the Association on or about January 31 and July 31 of each year during 
Project implementation, commencing on January 31, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
(including the information referred to under paragraph (d) (ii) below) during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date;
(d)
review with the Association:
(i)
by February 28 and August 31 each year during Project 
implementation, or such later dates as the Association shall 
request, the reports referred to in subparagraph (c) of this 
Section; and
(ii)
by August 31, in addition to the reports referred to in paragraph 
(c) of this Section:
(A)
the targeting of Subprojects;
(B)
the quality and impact of Subprojects;
Page  8
(C)
the administrative soundness and financial operations of 
FISE; 
(D)
the progress made in the decentralization to the Selected 
Municipalities of the identification, design, execution and 
supervision of Subprojects;
(E)
the progress achieved in the cash or kind contributions made 
by municipalities and communities to Subprojects; 
(F)
the implementation of FISE’s environmental assessment 
procedures; 
(G)
the operation of the preventive maintenance fund established 
by FISE for the financing of costs related to the 
maintenance of subprojects financed by FISE (including the 
Subprojects); 
(H)
the progress in the execution of Part C.3 of the Project; 
and 
(I)
the progress in the execution of Subprojects carried out 
under Part A (d) of the Project; and
(e)
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the reports referred in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section and 
the Association’s views on the matter.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall send to the Association not later than December 
31, 2001 the results of the review of FISE’s monitoring, performance and evaluation 
systems, as financed under Part C. 2 of the Project financed by Development Credit 
Agreement 3142-NI, entered into on November 13, 1998 between the Borrower and the 
Association.
Section 3.08. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by FISE.
Section 3.09. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation and the sustainability of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause FISE to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, adequate to reflect FISE’s operations and financial condition 
and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause FISE to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
and the records, accounts and financial statements of the Project 
for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
Page  9
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested, including as part of the 
information to be provided in each such report, a management 
letter concerning the Borrower’s internal controls;
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request; and 
(iv)
carry out quarterly operational audits in the scope and reporting 
format as the Association may reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(d)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
March 31, 2002, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds 
for the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; and
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit during the period covered by said report and 
Page  10
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause FISE:
(a)
to maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provisions 
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts 
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to maintain qualified and experienced management personnel (assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers) in charge of the execution of the Project, 
including an executive president, directors, sub-directors, and managers whose 
experience and qualifications shall be at all times acceptable to the Association, and 
to obtain the Association’s approval with respect to the replacement of such executive 
president, directors, sub-directors, and managers prior to any such replacement; and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its offices, equipment and other 
property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial, administrative, 
economic, social and environmental practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the FISE Decree shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Association, 
the ability of FISE to perform any of its obligations under the Execution Agreement or 
under any Subproject Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower shall have failed to designate or establish a successor to 
FISE, satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of carrying out of the Project in 
the event that FISE shall cease to exist before completion of the Project;
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
IDB Loan or the Swedish Grant or the KFW Grant or the 
Japanese Social Development Grant or any loan or grant made 
to the Borrower, other than by the Association, for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled 
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms 
thereof; or
(B)
the IDB Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
Page  11
suspension, cancellation, termination, or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreements; and (B) adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms 
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower 
under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) in respect of the FISE Decree, or 
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; 
and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions;
(a)
the Execution Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower and 
FISE; 
(b)
the Operational Manual and the Project Implementation Plan have been 
approved by the Association and adopted by FISE; 
(c)
a procurement plan for the first year of Project implementation has been 
submitted to the Association and found satisfactory by the Association; and
(d)
a registry of contractors to participate in Subprojects has been 
established within FISE.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that the Execution Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
FISE in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date September 4, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Edificio Nuevo MIFIN
Fte. a la Asamblea Nacional
Managua, Nicaragua
Facsimile:  
505-222-3033
For the Association:
International Development Association
Page  12
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By /s/ Alfonso Ortega Urbina
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
(a)
Goods under Part D
560,000
100% of foreign 
of the Project
expenditures; 100% 
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost); and
75% of local expenditures
for other items procured
locally
(b)
Goods under Part C.3
70,000 100% of foreign 
of the Project (except
expenditures; 100%
as covered by Category 
of local expenditures
4 (c) below)
(ex-factory cost); and 
75% of local expenditures
for other items procured
locally
Page  13
(c)
Goods under Part C.2
140,000
100% of foreign 
of the Project
expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost); and
75% of local expenditures
for other items procured
locally
(2)
(a)
Consultants’ services 1,960,000
100% 
under Part B
of the Project
(b)
Consultants’ services 1,050,000
100%
under Part D
of  the Project
(includes audits)
(c)
Consultants’ services 1,260,000
100%
under Parts C.1 and
C. 2 of the Project
(d)
Consultants’ services
420,000
100%
under Part C.3 of the
Project (except as covered
by Category 4 (c) below)
(3)
Training
      280,000 100%
(4)
(a)
Goods, works and
   31,530,000 100% but see para. 2 of
services financed under
this Schedule 1. A
Subprojects for Part A (a),
(b) and (c) of the Project
(b) 
Goods, works
    1,750,000 100% but see para. 2 of
and services financed
this Schedule 1.A
under Subprojects for 
Part A (d) of the Project
(c) 
Goods, works
   3,010,000
100% but see para. 2 of
and services financed
this Schedule 1.A
under Subprojects 
for Part C.3 of the Project
(5)
Unallocated
   4,670,000
TOTAL
46,700,000
2.
 Expenditures for goods, works and services under Subprojects shall be financed 
on a 86% basis if FISE ceases to be exempted from the payment of said value added tax 
(impuesto general al valor).
3.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
"foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
"local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower 
or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
"Training" means reasonable expenditures incurred by FISE staff in the 
carrying out of workshops, conferences, seminars, courses and study tours, as well as 
reasonable expenses (including travel and per diem) related to training attendance, as 
such expenditures shall be submitted for prior approval by the Association.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures incurred prior to the date of this 
Agreement; 
Page  14
(b) 
payments made for expenditures under disbursement category 4 (c), unless 
the evaluation of FISE’s social safety net program to be carried out by the 
International Food Program Research Institute has been completed and its results are 
satisfactory to the Association; 
(c)
payments made for expenditures under disbursement category 4 (a) in 
excess of SDR$5,000,000, until after January 1, 2002; 
(d)
payments made for expenditures under disbursement categories 1 (c) and 2 
(c), unless the SETEC Agreement has been entered into and submitted to the 
Association. 
5.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works costing less 
than $300,000 equivalent per contract (except for the first two contracts costing more 
than $55,000 equivalent per contract per year); (b) goods costing less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) consulting services provided by firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; (d) consulting services provided by individuals 
costing less than $25,000 equivalent per contract; and (e) Training expenditures, 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
6.
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment made from 
the Credit Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund 
to the Association for deposit into the Credit Account, an amount equal to the amount 
so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Association.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
Page  15
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
equivalent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures 
Page  16
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $12,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to implement a portion of the Borrower’s poverty 
reduction strategy through FISE by: (a) improving access of poor people to social and 
economic infrastructure and services; (b) strengthening local capacity; and (c) 
developing a social safety net.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A: 
Subproject financing
Carrying out small-scale Subprojects for the replacement, expansion and 
improvement of basic social and economic infrastructure and services, and provision of 
training to communities in organization, supervision, operation and maintenance of 
said facilities, with special emphasis on: (a) improving the quality and 
comprehensiveness of the investments; (b) ensuring community participation throughout 
the project cycle; (c) coordinating with public and private service providers to 
ensure adequate supply-side interventions; and (d) addressing the specific needs of 
indigenous and Afro-Nicaraguan communities through a pilot program for the 
implementation of Subprojects and capacity building in 6 municipalities located in the 
department of Jinotega, the autonomous south Atlantic region (Región Autónoma 
Atlántico Sur-RAAS) and the autonomous north Atlantic region (Región Autónoma 
Atlántico Norte-RAAN).
Part B: 
Strengthening local capacity
1.
Provision of technical assistance, materials and training to communities and 
municipalities to allow them to develop participatory investment plans to identify and 
prioritize the needs for specific Subprojects.
2.
Provision of technical assistance, materials, equipment and training to 
strengthen the technical units of the Selected Municipalities to allow them to manage 
the execution of Subprojects in their territories.
3.
Provision of technical assistance, materials, equipment and training to 
non-governmental organizations, private firms and other representatives of local 
communities to allow them to participate in the design, implementation and 
administration of Subprojects, including the pilot program for indigenous and 
Page  17
Afro-Nicaraguan communities referred in Part A above.
Part C:
Development of a social safety net
1.
Development of a social protection strategy to be managed by SETEC, including 
its framework, policy aspects and implementation plan.
2.
Strengthening the Borrower’s management of its social safety net investment 
program to be managed by SETEC, including the monitoring and evaluation of social 
safety net programs and the development of a computer data base for the Borrower’s 
national public investment system (Sistema Nacional de Inversión Pública).
 
3.
Establishing a social innovation fund in FISE to finance: (a) pilot social 
safety net interventions through the Red de Protección Social program (as administered 
by the Social Supplemental Fund, Fondo Social Suplementario (FSS), by virtue of 
Article 15 of the operational rules, Reglamento Operativo, of the FSS, as regulated by 
Decrees 46-98 and 122-2000 of the Borrower) for extremely poor, vulnerable groups in, 
inter alia, the health, nutrition and education areas; and (b) social assistance 
interventions proposed and to be implemented by, inter alia, non-governmental 
organizations, community organizations and the private sector, such as, for example, 
mother and child shelters, initiatives to improve nutrition of poor children, hygiene 
education combined with water projects, and recreational activities for youth at risk. 
Part D: 
Project Management
 
Institutional strengthening of FISE for the general management and coordination 
of the Project through the provision of technical assistance, training, vehicles, 
equipment, monitoring and evaluation assistance, living standards measurement survey 
financing, and the financing of external audits of FISE.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of: (a) 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the following Parts of this 
Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provision shall apply to the goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Page  18
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract or bid 
package, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Works estimated to cost less than $1,500,000 equivalent per contract or bid 
package, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $55,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works (for Parts A and C.3 of the Project and for Subprojects) estimated to cost 
less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$39,800,000 equivalent, may be procured in accordance to the following provisions:
(a)
works estimated to cost more than $55,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded in response to a public 
invitation of the Borrower as per Nicaraguan law. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the bidder who meets the 
appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been determined to 
offer the lowest evaluated cost. 
(b)
works estimated to cost less than $55,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest evaluated price quotation 
for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the 
contract successfully. 
4.
Direct Contracting
Works (for Subprojects) costing $8,000 equivalent or less per contract and not 
exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
5.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part C.3 of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Special Provisions Governing Procurement of Goods and Works 
1.
Registration in the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MFPC) Registry of 
bidders shall not be required for the award of any contract financed under the Credit.
2.
Professional title shall not be a bidder qualification requirement for the 
construction of civil works but previous experience in the relevant work.
3.
Procurement bidding documents and executed contracts shall be kept within FISE 
or the relevant Selected Municipality.
4.
Contracts for goods and works shall not be executed through a public deed (
escritura pública) but through private instruments with signatures certified by notary 
public.
Page  19
5.
The Borrower shall cause FISE to carry out quarterly publications of FISE’s 
procurement plans in lieu of the annual procurement plan required under Section 9 of 
Law 323 (enacted on January 3, 2000, as amended) of the Borrower.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Not later than June 15 and December 15 each year, a proposed six-month 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract procured pursuant to Part B (International 
Competitive Bidding) hereof, the first two contracts procured each year pursuant to 
Part C.1 (National Competitive Bidding) hereof, and any contract costing more than 
$300,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts per year costing more than 
$55,000 each procured pursuant to Parts C.2 (International or National Shopping) and 
C.3 (Procurement of Small Works) hereof, and each contract procured pursuant to Part 
C. 4 (Direct Contracting) hereof, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or the execution of any 
contract, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report 
on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received, a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of: 
(a) the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the following 
Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Audit services and any other consultants’ services except as otherwise provided 
in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Page  20
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for municipal strengthening activities, indigenous peoples development, 
innovation fund activities, living standards measurement survey data analysis, 
monitoring and evaluation activities under Parts B, A (d), C.3, and D of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for living standards measurement survey data collection under Part D of 
the Project and municipal strengthening under Part B of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Special Provisions Governing Selection of Consultants
1.
Registration in the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MFPC) Registry of 
bidders shall not be required for the award of any contract financed under the Credit.
2.
Procurement bidding documents and executed contracts shall be kept within FISE 
or the relevant Selected Municipality.
3.
Contracts for consultant services shall not be executed through a public deed (
escritura pública) but through private instruments with signatures certified by notary 
public.
4.
The Borrower shall cause FISE to carry out quarterly publications of FISE’s 
procurement plans in lieu of the annual procurement plan required under Section 9 of 
Law 323 (enacted on January 3, 2000, as amended) of the Borrower.
Part E:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Not later than June 15 and December 15 each year, a proposed six-month plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, the terms of reference of the 
consulting firms shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
Page  21
With respect to each contract under paragraph 2 (b) above and each contract not 
governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Section III.
Non-Participating Countries and Non-Eligible Countries
Set forth below are: (i) the list of countries which do not meet the 
requirements to be considered Participating Countries as referred to in Section 2.01 
(12) of the General Conditions (Non-Participating Countries); and (ii) the list of 
countries which are not members of the Association and therefore are also not eligible 
for participating in procurement financed by the Association, as the case may be 
(Non-Eligible Countries).
Non-Participating Countries 
·
The Bahamas
·
Bahrain
·
Brunei Darussalam
·
Cyprus
·
Oman
·
Qatar
·
Singapore
·
United Arab Emirates
Non-Eligible Countries
·
Andorra
·
Cuba
·
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea)
·
Liechtenstein
·
Monaco
·
Nauru
·
San Marino
·
Tuvalu
SCHEDULE 4
Subprojects Negative List
1.
Non-investment activities, including, inter alia: (i) mere consumption or 
transfer of ownership; (ii) financing of debts and liabilities; (iii) purchase or 
rental of land; (iv) provision of welfare (relief payments); and (v) containment or 
extinguishment of existing fires.
2.
Dam construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation or strengthening.
3.
Activities in or affecting natural protected areas recognized by central, 
departmental, regional or municipal governments (or buffer zones thereof), other than 
agreed by the Association on a case by case basis.
4.
Land reclamation (i.e., drainage of wetlands or filling of water bodies to 
create land).
5.
Land clearance and leveling (when affecting natural habitats and natural land 
contours, natural habitats for this purpose being those water or land areas where most 
of the original plant and animal species are still present), except for clearing of 
debris resulting from an emergency.
6.
Hazardous waste management and disposal, as well as manufacture, transport and 
use of pesticides and other hazardous and/or toxic materials (except small amounts of 
solvents, degreasing materials, paints, fuels and the like used during construction).
7.
River training (i.e., realignment, contraction or deepening of an existing river 
channel, or excavation of a new river channel) except for rehabilitation works 
originated in damages caused by natural disasters as such rehabilitation shall be 
approved on a case by case basis by the Association.
8.
Activities involving industrial plants (large-scale) and industrial estates.
Page  22
9.
New road construction or major upgrading or realignment of roads (major means:  
changing the road category, such as from seasonal to all-weather or secondary to 
primary; or adding new lanes).
10.
New large-scale irrigation, drainage or flood control works, except for 
rehabilitation works originated in damages caused by natural disasters as such 
rehabilitation shall be approved on a case by case basis by the Association.
11.
(a)
Activities which, when being carried out, would affect, or involve the 
use of, water of rivers or of other bodies of water (or their tributaries) which flow 
through or are bordered by countries other than Nicaragua, in such a manner as to in 
any way adversely change the quality or quantity of water flowing to or bordering said 
countries; and (b) activities involving the installation or construction of facilities 
which, when operated after their construction or installation, would affect, or 
involve the use of water of rivers or of other bodies of water (or their tributaries) 
which flow through or are bordered by countries other than Nicaragua, in such a manner 
as to in any way adversely change the quality or quantity of water flowing to or 
bordering said countries (unless such bordering countries have formally expressed in 
writing to the Association and to Nicaragua their no-objection to the activities 
referred to in (a) or (b) herein).
12.
Activities related to forestry production (forestry production does not include 
small-scale re-forestation activities).
13.
Development of new, or expansion of existing, ports and harbors.
14.
Aquaculture and mariculture activities.
15.
River basin development activities, except for rehabilitation works originated 
in damages caused by natural disasters as such rehabilitation shall be approved on a 
case by case basis by the Association.
16.
Development of new or expansion of existing thermal power and hydropower 
facilities.
17.
Activities of any type classifiable as category A for environmental purposes 
pursuant to Annex B of the Association’s December 1998 policy document entitled Good 
Practices (GP) 4.01.
18.
Conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats (as defined in the 
Association’s September 1995 Operational Policy (OP) 4.04, Annex A, on natural 
habitats).
SCHEDULE 5
Selected Municipalities
PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR TABLE, FORMAT WOULD NOT FIT INTO DOCUMENT
