                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR0000526




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IDA-35040 IDA-3504A, TF026597)




                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 46.7 MILLION
                       (US$ 60.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA

                                      FOR A

        POVERTY REDUCTION AND LOCAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                September 27, 2007




Human Development and Social Protection Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate Effective March 8, 2007)

             Currency Unit = Nicaragua Cordoba Oro (NIO)
                            C18.7317 = US$ 1.00
                              US$ 0.0538 = 1 C

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 ­ 31 December

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
COMPES     National Council for Economic and Social Planning
CPA        Procurement Capacity Assessment
ERCERP     Strenthened Strategy for Economic Groth and Poverty Reduction
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
FIDES      Social Development Innovation Fund (Fondo de Innovación para el Desarrollo
           Social)
FISE       Emergency Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversión Social de Emergencia)
FMR        Financial Management Reports
GoN        Government of Nicaragua
GTZ        German Technical Cooperation Agency
HIPC       Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Association
IDB        Inter-American Development Bank
IMF        Inter-National Monetary Fund
INAA       National Water Institute
INEC       National Institute of Statistics and Census
INIFOM     Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal Development
IPDP       Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
ISR        Implementation Status and Results
KfW        German Institute for Reconstrutction and Development
LAC        Latin America and the Caribbean
LACI       Loan Administration Change Initiative
MARENA     Ministry of Environment
MIDG       Millennium Development Goals
MIFAMILIA  Ministry of the Family
MECOVI     Program for the Improvement of Survey of Living Conditions
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MINED      Ministry of Education

MINSA        Ministry of Health
MIS          Management Information System
MPP          Participatory Micro-Planning
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
OM           Operations Manual
PSRP         Poverty Reduction and Strategy Paper
PSR          Project Supervision Report
PU           Procurement Unit
QEA          Quality at Entry Assessment
RAAN         Northern Atlantic Autonomous Region
RAAS         Southern Atlantic Autonomous Region
SDB          Standard Bidding Document
SECEP        Coordination Secretariat of the Office of the President
SETEC        Technical Secretariat of the Office of the President
SNIP         National Public Investment System
SP           Social Protection
SSNA         Social Safety Net Assessment
TA           Technical Assistance
TTL          Task Team Leader
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
USAID        US Agency for International Development
UTM          Municipal Technical Unit




            Vice President: Pamela Cox
          Country Director: Jane Armitage
           Sector Manager: Helena Ribe
       Project Team Leader: Benedicte Leroy de la Breire
         ICR Team Leader: Aline Coudouel
       ICR Primary Author: Juan Prawda

                                              Nicaragua
     POVERTY REDUCTION AND LOCAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                            CONTENTS


DATA SHEET..................................................................................................i
  A. Basic Information......................................................................................i
  B. Key Dates...............................................................................................i
  C. Ratings Summary......................................................................................i
  D. Sector and Theme Codes.............................................................................ii
  E. Bank Staff...............................................................................................ii
  F. Results Framework Analysis.........................................................................iii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs.............................................................v
  H. Restructuring...........................................................................................v
  I. Disbursement Graph..................................................................................v
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...............................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes.............................................11
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ..........................................................................................20
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.........................................................27
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .....................................................27
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................32
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners...........33
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing..........................................................................34
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component..................................................................................35
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis.................................................................43
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............50
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ...........................................................................52
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results...................................................53
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .....................54
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................56
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ......................................................................57
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Poverty Reduction and
Country:                Nicaragua               Project Name:         Local Development
                                                                      Project
Project ID:             P064906                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-35040,IDA-3504A
ICR Date:               10/02/2007              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                      REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                      NICARAGUA
Original Total
                        XDR 46.7M               Disbursed Amount:     XDR 46.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
Emergency Social Investment Fund (FISE)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/23/2000    Effectiveness:         04/03/2002         04/03/2002
Appraisal:             02/12/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/03/2001    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:               12/31/2004         12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:           Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                     Quality at Entry
                                                                      Highly Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                          32                 32
General transportation sector                                     14                 14
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector             22                 22
Health                                                            15                 15
Sub-national government administration                            17                 17


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Improving labor markets                                          Primary           Primary
Indigenous peoples                                              Secondary        Secondary
Municipal governance and institution building                    Primary           Primary
Participation and civic engagement                               Primary           Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                                Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                          David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Joseph Manoharan Owen               Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:           Helena G. Ribe                      Ana-Maria Arriagada
Project Team Leader:      Benedicte Leroy De La Briere        Andrea Vermehren
ICR Team Leader:          Aline Coudouel
ICR Primary Author:       Juan Prawda




                                                ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project assists the Government of Nicaragua in implementing a portion of its
poverty reduction strategy through the Emergency Social Investment Fund (FISE) by: (i)
continuing to improve access to priority small-scale social and economic infrastructure
and services to the poor; (ii) strengthening local capacity (municipalities, community
organizations, NGOs and private sector); and (iii) developing a coherent social safety net.
Overall, the project aims at assisting FISE move from a strong focus on infrastructure to a
more comprehensive approach to poverty reduction, including greater participation at the
local government and community level, as well as contributing to improving the country's
safety net.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval           Target         Completion or
                                               documents)          Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Increased access to and utilization of social and economic infrastructure
                                                                                Net primary
                                                                                enrollment rate:
                                                                                26.1% control,
                                                                                24.9% treatment.

Value                                                                           Distance to primary

quantitative or N/A                         N/A                                 school: 1.54 km

Qualitative)                                                                    (c), 1.03 (t).
                                                                                Distance to health
                                                                                post: 1.39 km (c),
                                                                                1.70 (t) DPT 0-5
                                                                                year old: 26.7% (c),
                                                                                25.5% (t).
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    12/31/2004                          12/30/2004

Comments        The ability of the impact eval. to capture impacts on households was limited by

(incl. %        the fact that many proj. had only recently been implemented at the time of the

achievement)    surveys and by the fact that proj. do not necessarily serve all households
                beneficiary community

Indicator 2 :   Distribution of per capita investment of projects contracted in each of the poverty
                categories (in US$ millions)
                                            Extreme:                            Extreme: US$61
Value                                       US$18.94; High                      (30%); High US$
quantitative or Extreme: US$55; High        (31%): US$20.09                     US$44.0 (31%);
Qualitative)    US$30; Medium: US$21        (27%); Medium:                      Medium: US$29.0
                                            US$10.09 (19%);                     (19%); Low:



                                                 iii

                                         Low: US$2.33                      US$9.0 (20%)
                                         (24%)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                 12/31/2004                         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   PMF coverage in terms of the number of establishments of the primary education
                and health networks.

Value                                    schools: 3,250;                   Schools: 8,100;
quantitative or N/A                      health posts: 400                 Health posts: 1,250
Qualitative)                             (100
                                         municipalities)                   (151 municipalities)

Date achieved 12/31/2002                 12/31/2004                         12/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                       Achieved at
                                               approval         Revised       Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values    Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Number of project committees (to give testimony of local participation in FISE
                financed sub-projects)
Value
(quantitative   0                        2,400                             2,327
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                 12/30/2004                        12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Number of municipalities managing the project cycle.
Value
(quantitative   9                        50                                109
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/24/2001                 12/30/2004                        12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Percentage of operating cots vs total disbursements.
Value
(quantitative   N/A                      11%                               13%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/24/2001                 12/30/2004                        12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



                                               iv

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                   Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                    IP             Disbursements
                                                                (USD millions)
  1   06/28/2001        Satisfactory        Satisfactory                  0.00
  2   12/20/2001        Satisfactory        Satisfactory                  0.00
  3   06/14/2002        Satisfactory        Satisfactory                  6.00
  4   12/16/2002        Satisfactory        Satisfactory                  6.82
  5   06/06/2003        Satisfactory        Satisfactory                12.25
  6   12/12/2003        Satisfactory        Satisfactory                23.53
  7   05/28/2004        Satisfactory        Satisfactory                34.78
  8   12/14/2004        Satisfactory        Satisfactory                51.68
  9   04/27/2005        Satisfactory        Satisfactory                56.20
  10  12/22/2005        Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory         66.73
  11  07/20/2006        Satisfactory        Satisfactory                66.05
  12  12/05/2006        Satisfactory        Satisfactory                66.51



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)
At the time of project preparation in 2000, Nicaragua was the second poorest country in Latin
America and the Caribbean (LAC) with a yearly per capita gross national product of about
US$430 (1999) which was only one-third of the regional average. In addition, in the past fifty
years, Nicaragua had been hit by severe hurricanes, such as Hurricane Mitch in 1998,
earthquakes; drought, landslides and a significant decline in the world-market prices of some of
its key export commodities (coffee) which had further adverse effects on the poor segments of the
population. Based on the consumption index, in 1998, almost one-half of Nicaragua's population
(47.8 percent) was poor, amounting to 2.3 million, of whom 830,000 (17.3 percent) were
extremely poor. Although poverty fell by 2.4 percentage points and extreme poverty by 2.1
percentage points between 1993 and 1998, the absolute number of both poor and extremely poor
rose during the same period, due to high population growth (3 percent).

Nicaragua's social indicators in 2000 were inadequate and among the worst in LAC. Life
expectancy was low (66 years) while infant mortality (53 per 1,000 live births) and fertility rates
(5 children per women of childbearing age) were high. The illiteracy rate remained high at 23
percent (41 percent in the rural areas) while average schooling was only 4.5 years. Household
access to water was 64 percent (30 percent in rural areas), and lack of clean water was a major
factor of infant mortality due to diarrhea. About a third of the poor households had no access to
latrines, 57 percent had no access to electricity and 94 percent were using only firewood for
cooking. In relative terms, poverty and extreme poverty remained overwhelmingly rural.

Financial resources for the social sectors, although representing 44 percent of Government of
Nicaragua's (GoN) budget in 2000, amounted to an annual per capita spending of US$76, still
below regional averages, and insufficient to provide minimum level of quality services to the
population.

In 2000, there were about 100 poverty reduction programs in Nicaragua, ranging from food
assistance, social infrastructure and programs for special target groups to rural development, with
a total cost of approximately US$210 million per year (10 percent of the gross domestic product).
The emergence of such vast number of programs resulted partly from the GoN's difficulty in
establishing priorities and strategies to guide donors and non-governmental organizations (NGOs)
under a coherent and coordinated poverty reduction strategic envelope. As a result, interventions
were fragmented, dispersed, at times duplicated.

Another important contextual factor shaping project design was the ongoing, gradual
decentralization and local partnership efforts undertaken in Nicaragua during the nineties. The
early decentralization experiences led to the creation of the Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal
Development (Instituto Nicaragüense para el Fomento a las Municipalidades ­ INIFOM) in 1990
and the establishment of 143 municipalities with elected mayors and local councils in 1991 (a
number which has now increased to 153). This period (1990 to 1995) provided the initial space
and legal framework for promoting a number of local partnerships through community driven




                                                  1

development projects (CDD)1. The period 1996-2000, immediately prior to the preparation of the
Project, is one characterized by the piloting of innovations in local partnerships addressing the
lessons learned during the previous five years. The Constitutional Reform and the Municipal Law
of 1998 strengthened the decentralization process2. It is precisely during this period that, when
Hurricane Mitch hit Nicaragua, local governments and communities had to partake in the huge
reconstruction effort. The Emergency Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversión Social de
Emergencia ­ FISE)3 was identified by the GoN to be a major player in the reconstruction
process by temporarily decentralizing decision making power to local FISE staff, in coordination
with mayors and communities, and providing technical assistance to municipalities. The period
2000-2006, when the Project was designed, appraised and implemented, is one of scaling up,
institutionalizing the pilots and promoting policy reforms (like the Municipal Planning System4
and the Municipal Fiscal Transfer Law approved in 2003, but not yet regulated). During this last
period, FISE contributed to empowering local governments and developed instruments (like the
participatory municipal planning process and the Local Government Management Information
Systems) that were relevant for advancing the country's decentralization policy, including its
legal framework and increased fiscal transfers.

The ongoing CDD experiences were found to be effective instruments for partnering community-
based organizations with local government. This took place through demand-driven local service
delivery, especially in the health, education and water and sanitation sub-sectors. Evidence from



1The IDA-financed Social Investment Fund I, known as FISE I (Credit 2434-NI), focusing on short-term
gains, was approved by the Board during this period.

2The IDA-financed FISE II (Credit 2767-NI) and FISE III (Credit 3142-NI) were approved during this
period.

3 FISE was created by the GoN through Presidential Decree No. 59-90 of November 29, 1990 as a
temporary social safety net program to help protect and improve the standard of living of marginal social
groups during the economic stabilization program following many years of civil war, through the provision
of temporary employment and social and economic infrastructure and services, especially in the poorest
municipalities of the country. In the context of the Law 290 that establishes the organization,
functions/attributions and responsibilities of the Nicaraguan State (Ley de Organización del Estado), by
Presidential Decree No. 37-2003 of April 24, 2003, FISE was granted permanent status as an agency within
the Office of the President with juridical personality and own patrimony and budget charged with the same
mission as stated above. Since its inception in 1990, FISE has disbursed about US$480 million in around
10,500 small-scale social and economic investment projects, mostly located in extreme poor and poor
communities (as classified by the current poverty map). In the period 2002-2006, the annual budget
managed by FISE amounted to about US$32 million. Most of FISE's investments have been in the
education sector, followed by water, sanitation, rural roads and community works, and in lesser degree,
health and social protection. FISE's annual budget, as it appears in the Budget Law, comes from different
financial sources, like, inter-alia: GoN, the World Bank, IDB, KfW, Dutch Cooperation, Japanese
cooperation, the Swedish Government, the Swiss Cooperation for Development and the Organization of Oil
Exporters Countries.

4This decentralization initiative orders the array of social-related services demand at the local level through
the municipality, which becomes the only link with all the line Ministries and investment agencies of the
GoN, like FISE. Before the enactment of this initiative, FISE received disconnected and at times duplicated
demands for social investment works from different local and national actors, making its response untimely,
inefficient and ineffective.



                                                       2

other ongoing CDD experiences in developing countries (Mexico, Philippines, Tanzania and
Zambia) available at the time of project preparation indicated that by empowering poor and
vulnerable population and placing them in the driver's seat with respect to decisions on a range of
development interventions, the likelihood to improve their economic and social conditions
increased. This encouraging evidence greatly influenced the Project's design and implementation
arrangements.

Project design was attuned to the GoN's updated strategy for Poverty Reduction5 discussed by the
World Bank Group (Bank) Board on December 22, 2000. This strategy was guided by the
following four principles: (a) continued modernization of the state to increase the impact of social
expenditures by allocating a larger share of the budget to social programs and projects to the poor
and improving their cost-effectiveness; (b) greater promotion of equity by increasing access of
the poor to the benefits of growth, with special attention to rural communities, women,
indigenous groups and the inhabitants of the Atlantic Coast; (c) more transparency and
accountability through participatory process; and (d) broader participation by all members of
society in the definition, implementation and follow-up of strategies supported by
decentralization and CDD approaches. Within the GoN's resource constraints, this Poverty
Reduction Strategy rested on four pillars: (1) broad-based economic growth with emphasis on
productive employment generation and rural development; (2) greater and better investment in
the human capital of the poor; (3) better protection for vulnerable population; and (4) the
strengthening of institutions and good governance. FISE was identified by GoN to be a major
player in the implementation of the above-mentioned Poverty Reduction strategy6.

The Project's design aimed at continuing IDA's ten-year support to the GoN in its poverty
reduction efforts. The Project built on a series of successful social investment fund projects
supporting FISE in providing poverty-targeted, priority social and economic small-scale
infrastructure, based on community demand and beneficiary participation (FISE I, FISE II and
FISE III)7. Based on the findings of the FISE Impact Evaluation study8 undertaken in 1999 and
published in 2000, the Project addressed the following four major sector issues:

(a) Improve access to and the quality of basic infrastructure and services targeted
particularly to the poorest communities and most vulnerable population groups;




5Estrategia Reforzada de Crecimiento Económico y Reducción de la Pobreza (ERCERP).

6As further explained in this report, two implementation agencies were added during the project execution:
the Ministry of the Family (MIFAMILIA) and SETEC.

7Credit 2434-NI (FISE I) disbursed US$25.1 million between June 1993 and September 1996. Credit 2767-
NI (FISE II) disbursed US$26.6 million between April 1996 and June 1998. Credit 3142-NI (FISE III),
under implementation at the time of Project preparation, disbursed US$43.8 million between March 1999
and June 2003. All three projects' outcomes were rated satisfactory in their Implementation Completion
Reports.

8Nicaragua: Ex-Post Impact Evaluation of the Emergency Social Investment Fund (FISE). Report 20400-
NI, December 7, 2000. The World Bank.



                                                    3

(b) Improve coordination at central and local levels to ensure that FISE operate within a
coherent framework and in synergy with other actors, including central and local government
agencies, local delegates of line ministries, communities, NGOs and the private sector;

(c) Strengthen local capacity to ensure the broad participation of local actors in planning,
managing, supervising and maintaining sub-projects; and

(d) Improve the coherence and strengthen the social safety net and its information base, to
allow for informed decision-making and priority-setting, rationalizing and targeting of resources,
development of innovative approaches for improving the living conditions of the poor and
vulnerable, and assessment of the effectiveness and impact of the country's social safety net
programs.

Rationale for IDA's assistance. In addition to the Project being a follow-up of previous
successful assistance to FISE to implement the GoN's Poverty Reduction Strategy, the following
seven reasons were given in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) to support further IDA
assistance: (a) the Bank's worldwide experience and comprehensive understanding of overall
poverty reduction strategies and its contributions to understanding poverty in Nicaragua through a
Poverty Assessment Study (2000), a review of a poverty map and an impact evaluation of FISE;
(b) its experience with decentralization and municipal development; (c) the Bank's experience in
monitoring and evaluation systems and management information systems; (d) its ability to
mobilize timely, high-quality technical assistance for institutional improvement and innovation
under the Project, such as in environment, indigenous people and local participatory planning; (e)
the Bank's ability to mobilize international resources, as evidenced by the parallel financing
arrangements provided by other donor agencies9; (f) its significant experience in designing social
protection strategies and operations; and (g) the Bank's broader program of assistance to the
social sectors in Nicaragua (health, education, social protection) providing an opportunity to
improve coordination among social sectors.

The Project complemented the following ongoing related investments: (i) the IDB-financed social
sector projects (Social Infrastructure Investment Program Phase IV; Program to Fight Poverty and
Strengthen Local Development; Atlantic Coast Local Development Program; and the conditional
cash transfer program labeled Social Protection Network); (ii) the IDA-financed First and Second
Rural Municipal Development Projects (Credits 2918-NI and PE-P055823); and (iii) the KfW-
financed FISE IV and V programs10. Some of these Programs were managed by FISE at the time
of project preparation, while others, like IDA's Rural Municipal Development Project was
managed by the INIFOM. In addition, FISE also managed other projects, like an USAID-financed
roads project. As further illustrated in table 1 in section 1.5 of the ICR, the Poverty Reduction and



9At the time of project preparation, there was already a long-term history of effective, consistent and
collaborative work of the Bank with IDB, KfW and other bilateral donor agencies in the social sector in
Nicaragua.

10According to the project files, the KfW IV (16.9 million euros in the period 1999-2002) and KfW V (5.6
million euros for the period 2003-2006) were grants to first finance and support Nicaragua the piloting of
innovative initiatives including: (i) participative planning schemes at the municipal level; (ii) small-scale
infrastructure projects developed and executed by the communities; (iii) decentralization strategies through
capacity building in 9 municipalities to undertake management and oversight of project execution; and (iv)
the establishment of a preventive maintenance fund.



                                                       4

Local Development Project also received parallel financing from the IDB, KfW (mainly for water
supply and decentralization) and the Government of Sweden.

In addition, the Project benefited from a Japanese Social Development Fund (Grant TF026597)11
amounting to US$765,000 approved by the Bank (acting as the administrator on behalf of the
Japan Social Development Fund) on April 3, 2002 and countersigned by the GoN on May 24,
2002. This grant aimed at the financing of activities, like community-based innovations, that
could not be financed under the proposed IDA Credit. Although this ICR concerns only the IDA
Credit, it is worth mentioning that this Social Development fund Grant was successfully utilized
to support the implementation of eligible activities through the contracting of qualified technical
assistance and provision of training. The total documented disbursements under this grant
amounted to US$755,962 and US$9,538 were cancelled12.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
According to Section A.1 and Annex 1 of the PAD dated March 23, 2001 and Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) dated June 6, 2001, the purpose of the Project was to
assist the GoN implement a portion of its poverty reduction strategy through FISE by: (a)
continuing to improve the access of poor people to priority small-scale social and economic
infrastructure and services; (b) strengthening local capacity (municipalities, community
organizations, non-government organizations and the private sector); and (c) developing a
coherent social safety net.

Overall, the Project aimed at assisting FISE to move from a strong focus on infrastructure to a
more comprehensive approach to poverty reduction, including greater participation at the local
government and community levels, as well as contributing to improving the country's safety net.

The following key outcome indicators (appearing in Annex 1 to the PAD), were agreed with the
Borrower at the Credit approval stage: (a) increases in rates of access to and utilization of social
and economic infrastructure; (b) improvements in quality of sub-projects; (c) evidence that sub-
projects are in operation and maintained for a reasonable number of years, by sub-project type;
(d) increased share of project funding going to the poor and poorest municipalities, communities
and households; (e) improvements in local participation in FISE sub-projects; (f) increased
number of municipalities who managed the project cycle; (g) improvements to the social safety
net developed and evaluated; and (h) satisfactory evaluation of projects financed under the
Innovation Fund.

These outcome indicators were later operationalized and used in the Implementation Status and
Results (ISRs), and are also included in the datasheet of this ICR and as the basis for assessing
Section 3.2 of the ICR. The comparability of the original indicators appearing in Annex 1 of the
PAD and the operationalized ones appearing in the datasheet of the ICR is fully explained in
Annex 2 of the ICR.




11The official title of this Grant as it appears in the Grant Agreement is Japan Social Development Fund
Capacity Building Grant for the Community Development Innovation Fund.
12 In addition to this Development Fund, the Bank (on behalf of the Japanese Government) approved a
PHRD Grant (TF0225845) of US$500,000 to finance project preparation activities, further described in
section 5.2(a) of the ICR.



                                                      5

The following key output indicators, appearing in Annex 1 to the PAD were agreed with the
Borrower at negotiations:

(a) For Component A: (i) cost and number of sub-projects executed within agreed time-
schedule13; (ii) number of municipalities and communities managing the full sub-project cycle;
and (iii) the number of user committees operating after two years of sub-project completion.

(b) For Component B: (iv) up to 100 participatory micro-planning processes carried out,
including evidence of quality of such exercises; (v) 25 municipalities managing the project cycle;
and (vi) at least 100 municipalities participating in the Preventive Maintenance Fund.

(c) For Component C: (vii) description and analysis of lessons learned; and (viii) positive
evaluation of pilot activities.

(d) For Component D: (ix) share of operating expenses in total budget; (x) evidence of correct
application of targeting mechanisms (share of investments going to poorest municipalities); and
(xi) satisfactory ratings by beneficiaries, local and central government and donors.

These output indicators were also operationalized in the ISRs and the equivalences are further
explained in Annex 2 of the ICR.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The original Project objectives remained unchanged throughout implementation and until the
closing of the Credit on December 31, 2006.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)
Section C3 of the PAD stated that the Project would benefit the poor, especially those living
below the poverty line (representing more than half of the Project's beneficiaries) by improving
their access to small-scale social and economic infrastructure and social assistance projects. The
1998 poverty map was used for geographical targeting at the municipal level to ensure that the
largest share of financing went to the poorest14.

According to the PAD, the Innovation Fund to be financed under Component C of the Project
was initially aimed to benefit vulnerable groups such as street children, teenage mothers,
indigenous populations, and victims of violence and of sexually transmitted diseases.




13This output indicator aimed at verifying compliance with subproject completion dates. Overdrawing
subproject implementation times was a proxy of inappropriate planning, and a source of likely corruption.

14The 1998 poverty map was a very useful targeting instrument during project design and execution.
However, by design, this map does not provide information on poverty within municipalities. For targeting
purposes, this limitation was addressed in the municipalities through the Multiannual Municipal Investment
Plan (Plan de Inversión Municipal Multianual ­ PIMM) which detected needs at the community level,
prioritized demands and translated them into tailored sub-projects proposals to be submitted for the
consideration of FISE.


                                                     6

Section 3.2 and Annex 2 of the ICR provides information on the number of people and of
municipalities that directly benefited from the Project and Annex 3 describes the impact of the
Project.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The following four components were included in the Project's original design (as fully explained
in Annex 2 to the PAD and in Schedule 2 to the DCA):

Component A ­ Sub-project financing (loan financing about US$47.5 million equivalent to
SDR 36.97 million). This component, representing about 79.2 percent of the total credit, aimed at
financing small-scale sub-projects for the replacement, expansion and improvement of basic
social and economic infrastructure and services, and community training in the organization,
supervision, operation and maintenance of said facilities. Special attention was given to: (i)
improving the quality and comprehensiveness of these investments; (ii) ensuring community
participation throughout the sub-project cycle including the planning, execution, administration,
operation and maintenance of said approved sub-projects; (iii) coordinating with service
providers to ensure adequate supply-side interventions; and (iv) addressing the specific needs of
the indigenous population, especially in six municipalities located in the Department of Jinotega,
the Autonomous South Atlantic Region (RAAS) and the Autonomous North Atlantic Region
(RAAN).

This component comprises an impact evaluation, aimed at (i) comparing the cost-effectiveness
and potential contribution to poverty reduction of the three modalities included in the design and
execution of small-scale social investments (centralized by FISE, decentralized in the
municipalities and community driven development projects); (ii) assessing FISE's contribution to
achieve the national poverty targets set in ERCERP; and (iii) assessing FISE's contribution in the
municipal capacity building process. The findings of this impact evaluation are described in
sections 3.2 and 3.3 and Annex 3 of the ICR.

Component B ­ Strengthening local capacity (loan financing about US$3.1 million
equivalent to SDR 2.41 million). This Component, representing about 5.2 percent of the total
credit, aimed at providing technical assistance, materials and training to: (i) communities and
municipalities to allow them to develop participatory investment plans to identify and prioritize
the needs for specific sub-projects; (ii) strengthen the technical units of the selected
municipalities to allow them to manage the execution of sub-projects in their territories in a
decentralized fashion; and (iii) NGOs, private firms and other representatives of local
communities to allow them to participate in the design, implementation and administration of
sub-projects, including the pilot program for indigenous (Miskitos) and Afro-Nicaraguan
communities of the regions mentioned in the paragraph above.

Component C ­ Development of a social safety net (loan financing about US$7 million
equivalent to SDR 5.45 million). This Component, representing about 11.7 percent of the total
credit and setting the context for innovation in the provision of social safety nets, aimed at: (i)
developing a social protection strategy to be managed by the Technical Secretariat within the




                                                7

Office of the President (Secretaría Técnica de la Presidencia ­ SETEC) 15 , including its
framework, policy aspects and implementation plan; (ii) strengthening GoN's management of its
social safety net investment program to be managed by SETEC, including the monitoring and
evaluation of social safety net programs and the development of a computer data base for GoN's
national public investment system (Sistema Nacional de Inversión Pública- SNIP); and (iii)
establishing a social Innovation Fund in FISE to finance: (a) pilot social safety net interventions
through the Social Protection Network (Red de Protección Social 16 ) for extremely poor,
vulnerable groups in, inter-alia, the health, nutrition and education areas; and (b) social assistance
interventions proposed and to be implemented by other social actors (NGOs, community
organizations, the private sector, etc.), in for example, mother and child shelters, initiatives to
improve nutrition of poor children, hygiene education combined with water projects and
recreational activities for youth at risk.

Component D ­ Project management (loan financing about US$2.4 million equivalent to
SDR 1.87 million). This Component, representing about 4.0 percent of the total credit, aimed at
the institutional strengthening of FISE for the general management and coordination of the
Project through the provision of technical assistance, training vehicles, equipment, monitoring
and evaluation, funding for living standards measurement surveys and the financing of external
audits of FISE.




15The administration of President Bolaños changed the name of SETEC to SECEP (Secretariat of
Coordination of the Office of the Presidency) and changed its role from that of a technical agency to that of
a coordinating agency.

16As administered by Article 15 of the Social Supplemental Fund and regulated by Decrees 46-98 and 122-
2000.




                                                    8

Table 1 shows the original Project costs and all sources of funding as they appear in the PAD.

Table 1. Original expected costs and sources of financing at appraisal
             Components                     Total indicative      IDA financing           Government         % financed by
                                                   Costs              (US$M)                and other             IDA
                                                 (US$M)                                      donor*              (2)/(1)
                                                    (1)                   (2)             counterpart
                                                                                            (US$M)
                                                                                               (5)
 A. Sub-project financing                         102.40               47.50                 54.90                46.4


 B. Strengthening local capacity                   7.50                 3.10                  4.40                41.3


 C. Developing a coherent social                   7.00                 7.00                  0.00                100.0
     safety net                                    2.00                 2.00                  0.00                100.0
  a. Institutional strengthening for
     policy                                        5.00                 5.00                  0.00                100.0
  analysis and formulation
  b. Establishing an Innovation                    19.10                2.40                 16.70                12.6
     Fund                                          14.40                0.00                 14.40                 0.0
                                                   4.70                 2.40                  2.30                51.0
 D. Project Management
  a. Operational Costs
  b. Technical assistance, training,
     vehicles and
  equipment, living standards
     measurement surveys,
     monitoring, evaluation studies
     and audits
 Total project costs                              136.00              60.00**                76.00                70.0
* Included: US$ 17.24 million of the GoN; US$ 3 million from the Government of Sweden; US$50 million from the IDB; US$0.76
million Japanese Social Development Fund Grant; and US$ 5 million from Germany Kreditanstal fur Wiederaufbau (KfW V).
** At the time of appraisal, the SDR 46.7 million IDA Credit was equivalent to US$ 60 million (1.2848 US to one SDR). At the time
of the writing of the ICR (August 2007), the ratio was one SDR equivalent to 1.53 US Dollar.
Source: Section C4 of the PAD and Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement 3504-NI. June 6, 2001


1.6 Revised Components
In response to the Borrower's requests dated May 3, 2004 and July 22, 2004, the Bank approved
on September 22, 2004 an amendment to the DCA (countersigned by the Borrower on October 29,
2004) to: (i) include under Part C3 of Schedule 2 to the DCA, a sub-component entitled Attention
to Crisis17, as a conditional cash transfer mechanism to respond to social and economic crisis in
the country to be financed under the innovation fund18; (ii) include the Ministry of the Family



17 The concept included in this sub-component of Attention to Crisis had been already envisioned with the
GoN at the lending stage as a window and mechanism of the Red de Protección Social project (financed by
the IDB) to address future crisis-related events in Nicaragua. It took some time after Board approval and
Credit effectiveness to agree with the key stakeholders (GoN, FISE, MIFAMILIA and the IDB) on the
most appropriate way to support this program and then to delineate its operational characteristics and
managerial arrangements, which resulted in the above-mentioned amendment to the DCA.

18 The piloting of the design in 2005 was to address a severe drought and a mud landslide. Drought is a
recurring phenomenon in Nicaragua, affecting many poor communities in the north and Pacific regions


                                                                9

(MIFAMILIA) as the implementing agency for this sub-component; (iii) create a second Special
Account under the Project specifically to finance this sub-component19; and (iv) extend the
closing date by one year, to December 31, 2005. The closing date was later further extended to
December 31, 2006.

This sub-component is consistent with the Project's third objective, as envisaged under the
original project description, under Component C, which aimed at "establishing a social
innovation fund in FISE to finance pilot social safety net interventions through the Social
Protection Network (Red de Protección Social) for extremely poor, vulnerable groups in, inter-
alia, the health, nutrition and education areas".

This innovative sub-component aimed at reducing the impact of aggregate shock on human and
physical capital investments, enhance households' asset-base and income diversification capacity,
and reduce poverty by strengthening households' ex-ante risk management strategies intended at
improving human and physical capital accumulation in a sustainable fashion. The program
combined a traditional conditional cash transfer, with conditions related to health and education,
with two additional innovative components providing households with (i) occupational training
(Bono de Formación Ocupacional) or (ii) a matching grant for productive investment (Bono de
Habilitación Productiva). 3,000 families benefited from the conditional cash transfer, among
which around one third also received the occupational training and another third received the
matching grant, conditional on the development of a business plan outlining the objectives of the
business and proposed investments in non-subsistence farming or non-agricultural income
generating activities. This sub-component was to be implemented in ten municipalities: (i) a
municipality that was affected by a mudslide; (ii) and nine municipalities affected by drought. A
strength of this sub-component is its experimental design, which allowed a rigorous impact
evaluation of the program. The findings of this impact evaluation are described in sections 3.2
and 3.3 and Annex 3 of the ICR.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)
No other significant changes were made during project implementation.




whose livelihood mainly depends on rain-fed agriculture. The Attention to Crisis was designed under the
framework of the National System for the Prevention, Mitigation and Assistance in case of Disasters
(Sistema Nacional para la Prevención, Mitigación y Atención de Desastres), officially established by Law
227 of 2000. Originally planned for third quarter of 2004, the pilot took place in 2005 and was taken to
scale in 2006.

19US$ 3 million of the Credit's Social Safety Net included in Component C was allocated to pilot the
Attention to Crisis.




                                                  10

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
This and the following sections in the ICR were written based on: (i) a thorough review of the
Project files; (ii) the findings of two post-completion field missions carried out on February 5-9,
2007 and March 12-16, 2007; (iii) the findings of an ICR field mission undertaken during April
9-13, 2007 which included interviews with key current and past Project-related stakeholders and a
visit to six project sites20 in the Municipalities of Camoapa (extreme poverty), Comalapa (severe
poverty) and San Lorenzo (severe poverty) in the Department of Boaco; and (iv) the findings of
the impact evaluation studies carried out specifically for Component A and the Attention to the
Crisis sub-component as well as the implementation evaluation study for the Japanese Social
Development Fund carried out under the innovation fund of Component C.

Quality at Entry of the Project has been assessed along the topics appearing in bold in the
following paragraphs based on current best quality at entry practices and Bank guidelines and not
necessarily reflecting those in existence at the time of Project appraisal.

Client orientation, lessons learned and timing of the lending process. The Project was
conceived as a follow-up to three previous related IDA-financed operations in Nicaragua (FISE I,
II and III) to further support FISE in providing poverty-targeted, priority social and economic
small-scale infrastructure investments, based on community demand and beneficiary participation.
In addition, the Project was conceived and designed to further support and strengthen ongoing
decentralization and CDD experiences in Nicaragua.

The previous experience of FISE was thoroughly analyzed, through a series of evaluations of its
impact on different groups of the population, its targeting, its sustainability, its cost, and on the
effectiveness of a decentralized model for municipalities with sufficient capacity. This
information was critical to the design of the current Project.

The following lessons learned from the previous three FISE Credits underpinned the Project's
design. These included the need for: (i) consistency with national development strategies; (ii)
clear and limited objectives; (iii) better targeting to reach the poor; (iv) potential for innovation
and laying groundwork for future reform; (v) addressing key institutional characteristics; (vi)
focus on service delivery; (vii) ensuring sustainability of the small-scale social investments; and
(viii) identifying the role of local governments.

Anchored on the above-mentioned lessons learned, the key departures with these three previous
operations were to: (i) move away from an input and process-oriented design to a results-oriented
investment; (ii) move from strong focus on infrastructure to a more comprehensive approach to
poverty reduction, including greater participation at the local government and community levels;
(iii) improve the targeting criteria through an updated poverty map of the country to better benefit
the poorest municipalities and population groups                21; (iv) further support the ongoing
decentralization process by strengthening local capacity (communities, municipalities, NGOs,



20The sites included CDDs, decentralized and centralized investments comprising construction of new
health posts and primary schools, sports facilities and street pavement (adoquinado).

21The 1998 Poverty Map was further refined in the early part of this decade.




                                                      11

etc.) to participate in the design, implementation, administration, maintenance and sustainability
of social and economic small-scale sub-project investments; (iv) ensure a stronger focus on the
Atlantic Coast and their indigenous peoples; (v) strengthen significantly FISE's focus on cross
cutting issues like environment and gender sensitivity; and (vi) develop a more coherent and
consistent social safety net in terms of appropriate policies and operations and the inclusion of a
social safety net innovation fund.

The documents in the project file indicate that during the design stage, the Bank demonstrated
sensitivity and commitment to results that were in the Borrower's best interest. The Bank's
approach was consistent with the GoN's Poverty Reduction Strategy (ERCERP) and the
recommendations put forward in the Nicaragua Poverty Assessment Report discussed by the
Bank's Board on December 22, 2000.

The timing of the lending process which went from June 2000 (identification) to February 2001
(appraisal) coincided with a Presidential election process at the closing stages of the President
Arnoldo Alemán's administration 22 . This timing presented three relevant risks for project
preparation, and for the early stages of implementation. The first risk, flagged during the Project
Concept Note review meeting of October 23, 2000, consisted of the possibility of the GoN's
interference with the Project and the potential use of part of the ongoing IDA Credit proceeds to
support political campaigns23. The Bank preparation team rightly addressed this potential issue
during the entire lending phase and mitigated this risk through careful supervision and constant
engagement. The second risk was the possibility of project implementation delays caused by the
likely changes in key executive and managerial positions in FISE at the time the incoming elected
administration took office. As explained elsewhere in the ICR, this in fact became a major issue
and partially contributed to the delay in securing effectiveness of the IDA Credit after Board
approval and getting its implementation off the ground in a timely fashion. The third risk was that
of the incoming elected Government not buying into a project design developed by the previous
administration. As further detailed in Section 5.2(b), the new administration initially anticipated a
different agenda for FISE.

Implementation readiness. The Project was subjected to a formal Quality at Entry Assessment
(QEA) carried out on June 6, 2001, about one month after Board approval. The QEA panel rated
the quality at entry of this investment as highly satisfactory in four dimensions (concept,
objectives and approach; poverty and social aspects; environmental aspects; and implementation
arrangements) and satisfactory in the remaining four dimensions (technical, financial and
economic aspects; fiduciary aspects; policy and institutional aspects and risk assessment and
management). The overall QEA rating was highly satisfactory.




22Arnoldo Alemán was President of Nicaragua for the period January 10, 1997 to January 10, 2002. He
resurrected the Nicaragua Liberal Party renaming it Liberal Alliance. His Vice-President was Enrique
Bolaños, who was President of Nicaragua for the period January 10, 2002 to January 10, 2007.

23The winner of the election was Enrique Bolaños, who, despite having been Vice-President of Nicaragua
under Alemán, broke ranks with the incumbent President, left the Liberal Alliance and formed the Alliance
for the Republic political party. At the beginning of President Bolaños' term he led an anti-corruption
campaign against his predecessor Arnoldo Alemán, sentencing him to 20 years in prison. This illustrates
why the risk detected at the PCN meeting was significant and warranted mitigation measures to prevent the
possible use of IDA Credit proceeds for political purposes.




                                                    12

However, a thorough review of the Project's implementation files suggests that, in accordance
with today's standards in the Bank, the Project was not fully ready to be implemented at the time
of Board approval. It is worth noting that while today's standards require projects to be
substantially ready for execution and therefore to contain few if any effectiveness conditions, the
standards at the time the Project was prepared were not as stringent. First, at the time of Board
approval, FISE had not reorganized to respond to the challenges posed by the proposed Project.
Specifically, the Bank's appraisal team had detected organizational structural deficiencies,
including in terms of coordination between FISE, line Ministries (Health and Education) and
other Government agencies (SETEC, INIFOM). Second, the Project Implementation Plan had not
been finalized, in particular with respect to the Atlantic Coast Indigenous Peoples Pilot program,
the strategy to strengthen community organization, the cost and implementation schedule and the
decentralization concept to be adopted by FISE. Third, at the time of Board approval there was no
clear plan (or time-schedule) for the development of a social protection strategy and the operation
of the Innovation Fund, leaving Component C vaguely defined in technical and operational
terms24. Finally, at the time of Board approval, the evaluation system was not in place, Annex 1
of the PAD lacked baseline data of the outcome and output indicators, and some issues flagged by
the procurement and financial management capacity assessments and the environmental review
carried out by the Quality Assurance Team had not been fully addressed.

One of the strengths of preparation was that it was carried out with the participation of other
bilateral and multilateral institutions, as well as other project stakeholders in a well coordinated
fashion. This coordination ensured consistency and synergies in the support provided by the
various institutions, both during the implementation of the Project and after its closing. For
instance, the recent IDB-supported credit has adopted the model developed under the Project, and
built on the lessons and expertise developed during project implementation. Similarly, the teams
made progress in promoting coordination between government agencies during the preparation.
In particular, after a period of disagreement, an agreement was reached between FISE and
INIFOM during Project preparation, which laid the basis for the formalization of this agreement
and the institutions' coordination and collaboration. This was a critical element of the successful
implementation of the Project's decentralized model.

In addition, the Project's design benefited from an economic analysis, an evaluation of the impact
of FISE's 1991-1999 operations, an evaluation of decentralization pilots, studies on costs, a social
assessment including a social evaluation of indigenous communities in the Costa Atlántica, and a
diagnostic study of gender issues. These analyses guided the design of the Project. In particular,
the impact evaluation of the previous period led to adjustments to the targeting mechanisms of
FISE's projects and to changes in the menu of projects it supports. The evaluation of
decentralization pilots was essential in confirming the viability of the approach (as it revealed its
feasibility in terms of cost, efficiency, and local government capacity).

Finally, the timeline for Project preparation was established in a way to ensure maximum
continuity in FISE's operation. The preparation team worked with the institution to ensure the



24The Project files indicate that in April 29 ­ May 3 2002, about less than one month after having declared
the IDA Credit effective, there was a workshop with SETEC to agree on a plan to formulate a social
protection strategy for the country (in essence, the substance of one sub-component in Component C).
Furthermore, from September 3 ­ 6, 2002, four months after Credit effectiveness, another workshop was
carried out to finalize the operational characteristics of the innovation fund (included as another sub-
component in Component C) along its Operational Manual.




                                                    13

models it had developed and which had proven effective would be adopted for its operations
during the next phase. Ensuring project appraisal and approval before the political transition has
proven to be essential in laying the foundations for this continuity.

Weighting the above observations, the ICR team ranks the Quality at Entry of this Project as
satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation
This section provides the key factors and events through the project implementation cycle that
contributed to its achievements and shortcomings. The Project was approved on May 3, 2001, the
IDA Credit signed on June 6, 2001, approved by the Nicaraguan National Assembly on
November 21, 2001 and declared effective on April 3, 2002. The original Closing Date,
December 31, 2004, was extended twice, first to December 31, 2005 and then to December 31,
2006.

At the request of the Borrower, the DCA experienced two amendments. The first one, approved
by the Bank on February 12, 2004 and countersigned by the Borrower on March 5, 2004,
included some minor modifications of definitions in Sections 1.02 and 4.01 of the DCA
(changing the definition of the term fiscal year). The second amendment, approved by the Bank
on September 22, 2006 and countersigned by the Borrower on October 29, 2004, as mentioned in
Section 1.6 of the ICR, included MIFAMILIA as the implementing agency for the conditional
cash-transfer sub-component Attention to Crisis.

Project files indicate that project implementation, as measured by the financial and physical
progress, on Components A and B gained momentum in the second semester of 2003, about one
year after Credit effectiveness and two years after Board approval, and for Component C after
2004. Evidence of the above (as shown in the disbursement profile of the datasheet of the ICR) is
that documented disbursements up to the end of 2002 amounted to SDR 620,820 (US$930,000
equivalent), discounting the balance of the initial deposit to the Special Account made in May
2002 of SDR 4.67 million (about US$7 million equivalent). The following reasons appeared to
cause this delay at the onset of Project implementation.

First, the Project reflects FISE authorities' decision to work towards a decentralized model and
progressively transform its highly effective and centralized engineering-type, project-production-
line, organization into a more decentralized operation supporting local capacity building, with
greater emphasis on the social dimension of the sub-projects. This shift called for significant
changes in FISE's structure and organization to undertake the effective management and
oversight required by the new Project. Similarly, FISE needed to adapt the traditional
standardized procedures and operational documents to launch and implement the decentralization
strategy with indigenous and Afronicaraguan groups in the Atlantic Coast. These changes,
structural in nature, took place over the first months of implementation and contributed to slow
disbursements in the early implementation phase.

Second, immediately after Board approval, the election period slowed down activities within
FISE, as is frequent during political transitions. The transition, with the new administration taking
office in January 2002, resulted in six month delays in the appointment of FISE's President and
Executive Director and in two successive changes in FISE's President and Executive Director in
the first year. The new administration also required a few months, during 2002 to fully adopt and
embrace FISE's mandate and model.




                                                  14

Finally, the clarification and implementation of the division of labor and responsibilities between
FISE's operational and administrative departments necessary for the effective implementation of
the decentralization program, as well as the explicit definition of the mechanisms for ex-ante
allocations of projects on the basis of the poverty map and of the degree of municipal
participatory planning efforts, required efforts and changes which took more time than originally
anticipated.

Physical and financial implementation improved dramatically once these issues were addressed
by the Borrower, the Bank and other donors in the first semester of 2003. Documented
disbursements of the IDA Credit amounted to about US$2.6 million per month after mid-2003.
As shown in the disbursement profile of the datasheet of the ICR, by the end of 2003, total
documented IDA-Credit disbursements had risen to SDR 12.48 million (27 percent of the total
contracted amount); one year later they amounted to SDR 31.54 million (68 percent) and by
December 2005 they had increased to SDR 40.15 million (86 percent of the total Credit
contracted).

MIFAMILIA satisfactorily implemented the Attention to Crisis component by the closing of the
Project, after implementation delays during which MIFAMILIA initially conceptualized the sub-
component and during periods of change in its direction and high-level management. In addition,
MIFAMILIA and the Ministry of Health were not able to reach the agreement necessary to
implement the health component of the sub-component. This difficulty in establishing formal
coordination and collaboration between agencies is not specific to MIFAMILIA, but rather an
issue throughout Nicaragua, which the Government has been progressively addressing. Overall,
however, the component was satisfactorily implemented and yielded significant impacts and
lessons (see Section 3.2. and 3.3 and Annex 3).

The Government of Nicaragua strongly addressed the issues raised during the first semester of
2005 when the attempt to use IDA funds for non-eligible political purposes resulted in the
qualification of the 2005 Audit Report and generated a strong protest of the multilateral and
bilateral donors. Indeed, the Ministry of Finance and the Office of the President in the Nicaraguan
Congress led an initiative which resulted in the Law 550. The Law severely restricts the cash
flows within Government agencies. Practically, it reduced FISE's annual cash to about 5 percent
of its total authorized budget. This constraint led FISE to require that municipalities provide
matching grants (of about 10 percent of the total sub-project cost) for their investment proposals
and to advance about 13 percent of the costs to initiate the execution of the investment. This
legislation successfully and forcefully addressed the issue of misuse of funds by government
agencies, although one of the negative side effects could have been to somewhat slow down the
investment process.

As detailed in the cost tables in Annex 2 of the ICR, this Project incurred relatively high
administrative and operational costs, around 15 percent of total costs. These costs partly reflect
the initial increase in operational costs associated with the decentralization of FISE's investments
in many municipalities. Indeed, the number of municipalities managing their own sub-project
cycles increased from 9 at the beginning of the Project to 109 at the time of the closing. While
Component B provided resources for training and technical assistance for municipalities, the shift
to the decentralized model also required major supervision, guidance and hand-holding by FISE's
central institution, and the recruitment, training and decentralization of some of FISE's technical
staff. The operational costs can be expected to decrease over time, as more municipalities are
capacitated to take over all aspects of project planning, implementation and monitoring. Part of
the relatively large operational and administrative cost is also related to the fact that the project
life was extended by two years, increasing the period of implementation and associated costs.


                                                  15

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
FISE made available, at the end of 2003, an integrated Management Information System (MIS)
allowing easy and fast access to relevant data, including the status of the key performance
indicators as well as the production of progress reports. However, the Bank's Project files reveal
that information on project performance indicators were not recorded by the Bank supervision
teams until the April 27, 2005, when the new ISRs were introduced. Similarly, no baseline
information was made available for some of the other outcome indicators until April 2004. The
format of the ISR prior to 2005 did not provide space for reporting on indicators of outcomes and
impact, and did not require such reporting. In addition, the team systematically recorded the
information and reports produced from the MIS in Project archives and attached them to its aide-
memoires and BTORs.

In the November 2003 supervision mission, agreement was reached with the Borrower to evaluate
the impact of the Project. This interest in evaluation has been a constant element of FISE's
operations, under this Project and previous credits. This effort led to three evaluation studies
contracted with qualified consulting firms, institutions and/or individuals.

The first study aimed at (i) comparing the cost-effectiveness and their potential contribution to
poverty reduction of the three modalities included in the design and execution of small-scale
social investments under Component A (centralized by FISE, decentralized in the municipalities
and community driven development projects) using an experimental design; (ii) assessing FISE's
contribution to achieve the national poverty targets set in ERCERP; and (iii) assessing FISE's
contribution in the municipal capacity building process. The baseline data for this study was
collected in 2004 while the data collection for the follow-up survey was completed in December
2006. The panel data encompasses 3,200 households and is complemented by qualitative analysis
using focal groups and community profiles. The findings are discussed in sections 3.2 and 3.3 of
the ICR and in Annex 3.

The second study included an experimental design built into the Attention to Crisis sub-
component design. The baseline information of the treatment and control groups were collected
prior to the start of the implementation in May 2005 while the second measurement was
conducted 9 months into the execution in August 2006. In addition to the quantitative evaluation
a qualitative evaluation was also conducted in June 2006, focusing on operational issues. The
findings from this study are presented in sections 3.2 and 3.3 as well as Annex 3 of the ICR.

In light of the apparent success of the Atlantic Coast model benefiting indigenous population
(Miskitos) and Afro-Nicaraguan groups undertaken under Component A, a decision was made to
carry out a third evaluation. At the time of writing the ICR, the terms of reference for the
identification and selection of a qualified consulting individual or firm to carry out the envisaged
study had been finalized and approved, and the consultant selected. This study is to be funded by
the new IDB loan and the preliminary findings are expected in the second semester of 2007.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
As discussed in Section 2.1 above, some elements of the Project were not fully ready for
implementation when the credit was approved by the Board, especially when assessing the
readiness using today's standards. However, as described in this Section, the Borrower was able
to address satisfactorily all of the issues that were necessary for implementation during the
implementation of the Project, albeit with some delays.

The procurement capacity assessment identified a few issues which were satisfactorily addressed
by the Borrower during the first year of project implementation. This included the need for a


                                                 16

reorganization of the procurement unit within FISE to meet the challenges posed by the Project
with respect to the acquisition of goods and services and the construction and/or rehabilitation of
social service facilities (mainly schools and health posts).

The several procurement ex-post reviews carried out during the life of the project attest to the fact
that no major concerns were found with respect to the acquisition of goods and construction and
rehabilitation of civil works following Bank procedures. There was only one instance of
contracting of services and technical assistance where FISE staff were identified and contracted
without the prior no-objection of the Bank. Procurement practices became satisfactory once the
Bank supervision teams raised the issue with FISE and the non-eligible expenditures incurred by
FISE during the first semester of 2005 were reimbursed to the Bank.

On the financial management front, agreements were reached with the Borrower on the financial
management arrangements to be implemented by the community decentralization program once
implementation took off in 2003. Likewise, FISE's financial accounting and reporting systems
were reviewed and found to be adequate. Accordingly, compliance with the Bank's fiduciary
requirements improved during 2003.

The financial management supervision mission of May 2006 rated as satisfactory the financial
performance of the Project with respect to FISE's financial management staffing, internal
controls, record keeping, financial reporting and monitoring and budgeting systems. The flow of
funds arrangements were found to be satisfactory, including: (a) flows between donors, the
project and its beneficiaries; (b) timely submission of withdrawal applications; and (c) banking
arrangements. The audit arrangements were found to be moderately satisfactory due to delays in
delivery of Audit Reports. Accountability, including eligibility of expenditures, was found to be
satisfactory. The only elements rated unsatisfactory by the mission were the timing of submission
of the quarterly Financial Management Reports and annual Audit Reports, the delays in
contracting the audit of Project accounts (which was then contracted satisfactorily) and the
attempt by FISE to integrate the quarterly FMRs with the check emissions. The overall rating
granted by Bank's financial management specialist was moderately satisfactory and the financial
management risk monitoring was rated moderate. The financial management supervision mission
of March 2007 helped the implementing agencies ensure all pending issues were satisfactorily
addressed before the end of the grace period (June 30, 2007).

The environmental issues flagged by the Bank LAC's Quality Assurance Team, in particular with
respect to water and sewage investments, rural roads and solid waste, were appropriately
addressed during the implementation of the Project, after initial delays. Accordingly, Bank
supervision teams found no major issues with the project-related environmental policies and
practice. FISE established an appropriate environmental data system.

The social assessment carried out during the project preparation pointed to the striking cultural
diversity posed by the Miskitos and Afronicaraguan groups of the Northern and Southern Atlantic
Coast and the need for new operational procedures attuned to these differences. Once cultural
differences were integrated into a tailored Operational Manual and procedures in early 2003, the
project got off the ground in the Atlantic Coast. It was judged to be very successful and is
currently subject to an impact evaluation study supported by the IDB.

Gender policies were implemented during project execution and considered by the Bank
supervision teams to be satisfactory.




                                                 17

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The closing of the Credit coincides with a change in administration, which can affect the
technical, institutional and financial sustainability of project activities. Indeed, periods of
transition are typically associated with high turnover of key managerial and technical personnel,
as is currently the case in FISE and MIFAMILIA In addition, the transition occurred before the
finalization and formal adoption of a clear social protection strategy.

FISE

FISE's operations are highly likely to continue on the basis of the model developed during this
Project with decentralized management and implementation. Indeed, the Government has
reiterated the importance of FISE in its poverty reduction strategy, in particular in terms of small-
scale social investments. FISE has also become the official agency in charge of public
investments in rural water systems, following a Presidential mandate.

In addition, donor financial support for FISE is still strong. FISE will likely continue financing
poverty reduction and local development-related targeted investments including training of
stakeholders through the following two new operations already approved and made effective: (i) a
Grant of 8.55 million euros given by KfW to implement FISE VI in the period 2006-200925; and
(ii) the IDB-financed Strengthening of Public Social Investment (Programa de Fortalecimiento
de la Inversión Pública Social) amounting to US$55.5 million (US$45 million IDB Credit),
which was approved in 2005 and has been under implementation since 200626.

The IDB-financed program builds directly on the experience and expertise developed during the
current Project in terms of the modalities of management which promote greater decentralization
and contribute to the strengthening of the capacity of communities and municipalities to plan,
implement and monitor their development strategies and programs. The lessons learned during
the Project were critical to the design of this next phase of IDB support.

Related to the sustainability of some activities undertaken by this Project, the Results-Based
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) to be presented to the Board of the World Bank in October
2007 identifies water and sanitation as key areas for investment credit for the new CPS period
(further explained in section 3.1 of the ICRR). The Presidency has ratified the decision to
officially mandate FISE as the Government agency for rural water and sanitation. Therefore, the
Bank is planning its support to FISE for the rural water and sanitation credit in preparation during
this fiscal year.

FISE's small-scale investments completed by this Project are being maintained with resources
from the Preventive Maintenance Fund (PMF) financed by the IDA-Credit as attested by one of




25This operation aims at continuing supporting the decentralization and municipal governance with respect
to the management of municipal projects. Previous operations financed by KfW benefited 55 municipalities.
The new operation will extend the effort to additional municipalities.

26The objective of this new IDB-financed operation is to consolidate a participatory, efficient and effective
decentralized socially and locally-based public investment system to improve the access by the poor to
basic social services. This operation, to close in 2010, was largely designed based on the pilots
implemented under the IDA Credit.




                                                    18

the PDOs in the datasheet of the ICR27. The ICR mission attested to the fact that the small-scale
projects financed under FISE I and II in the early and late nineties (schools and health posts)
visited during the recent field trip appeared to be in good conditions. In addition, the impact
evaluation (presented in Annex 3) shows that on average 86.3 percent of the projects were of
good or very good quality, 11.6 percent of regular quality and 2.1 percent of insufficient quality.

MIFAMILIA

The new administration of MIFAMILIA has announced that one of the elements of its strategy
will be the implementation of a third phase of the Red de Protección Social. This program will
focus in particular on stimulating demand for education and for technical training (Bono
Educativo and Bono de Formacion Ocupacional of the Red de Protección Social and of the
Attention to Crisis component), with a view to build the human capital of poor rural families, but
will not include the transfer of cash to the families. This program will be implemented in
coordination with the program Cero Hambre which provides agricultural assets (a Bono
Productivo comprising cattle, chicken, tools, and/or equipment) to poor agricultural households.
It would complement this program by focusing on poor non-agricultural households in the same
communities. In addition to supporting the poor that cannot benefit from the agricultural program,
this program will build the skills for services to transform, process and transport the additional
agricultural outputs of the households which benefited from the Bono Productivo. In its early
years, the planned third phase of the program is significantly smaller than the earlier phases, and
its sustainability remains unclear. However, its coordination with the Cero Hambre program will
ensure its strategic targeting on a particular group of poor families most likely to benefit from the
program.

This program's design is directly the result of the experience with the Red de Protección Social in
general and with the Attention to Crisis pilot in particular. The results of the impact evaluation of
the program and its Attention to Crisis component, and the operational lessons learned, were
central to the decision to continue with this model and will provide critical inputs for the design
of this new phase of the program. The World Bank is actively involved in providing technical
assistance to the new administration on the design of the new phase of the program.

The SETEC is currently reviewing the social safety net policy and strategy developed under the
Project. In addition, the development of a strategic approach to social protection during the
Project has triggered a broader interest in the analysis of social spending in Nicaragua, which the
new administration is initiating. In particular, the SETEC has recently decided to update the
mapping of social protection programs to rationalize the sector and increase its efficiency and
coverage and is keen to replicate this analysis to the other social sectors. As SETEC's role in the
allocation of resources and the design of interventions intensifies with the new administration, the
impact of the analysis undertaken during the Project is likely to further increase.




27The Preventive Maintenance Fund was established at the end of the nineties during the implementation of
FISE III as a partnership between the central government, municipal governments and community
organizations to ensure investment sustainability. Through the PMF, the national government provides
funding to municipalities for preventive maintenance of primary schools and health centers. This co-
financing is progressive, allocating higher percentages to extremely poor municipalities than others.




                                                     19

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
At the lending stage. The Project design was consistent with the CAS for Nicaragua (IDA
Report 98-32), discussed by the Board on April 4, 1998. Accordingly, that CAS identified three
core themes for the World Bank Group assistance to the country: (i) consolidating growth through
private sector development; (ii) developing the rural sector and strengthening environmental
protection; and (iii) developing human capital and protecting the poor. This Project directly
supported the third CAS objective and was consistent with the findings and recommendation of
the above-mentioned Poverty Assessment Report discussed by the Board on December 22, 2000.

In addition, at the time of project preparation, the Project aimed at contributing to implement a
portion of GoN's Poverty Reduction Strategy (ERCERP), which FISE, through its various
programs, as a major player in financing small-scale social infrastructure and social assistance
sub-projects and contributing in developing a coherent safety net program in the country.

Current GoN's policy and Bank strategy. Despite improvements in poverty and inequality,
these indicators remain high (46.2 percent of the population are poor and 14.9 percent are
extremely poor) in Nicaragua. The newly elected Government has stated as its primary
development objective the creation of wealth and poverty through broadly shared economic
growth. Accordingly, targeted and more efficient social programs, like the ones financed by this
Project, are seen by the new administration as key instruments of their poverty reduction strategy
and will be needed to meet the MDG goals by the 2015 deadline.

The Nicaraguan National Development Plan (2005-2009), which was the basis for the Bank's
Interim Strategy Note for FY05-FY07 (Report No. 32579-NI of July 6, 2005), has been largely
accepted by the new administration. The Government is currently revising the Plan which will be
ready in early 2008 and subject to a broad consultation process. The Plan focuses on human
capital development and social protection, productive (roads, ports, energy) and social public
(water and sanitation, housing) infrastructure investments and Governance and state reforms
(including decentralization policy) as three of the 5 pillars for sustained economic and social
growth in Nicaragua28. These three pillars are the ethos of the Poverty Reduction and Local
Development Project financed by the IDA Credit.

In addition, the Project fits with five of the priorities identified in the initial discussions held by
the Bank with the newly elected GoN in the preparation of the incoming Results-Based CAS. In
particular, the GoN has expressed its interest in preparing a rural water project to be executed by
FISE, which is recognized as one of the core agencies for small-scale investments, especially in
rural areas.

For all of the above, the Project's PDO currently continue to remain highly relevant.




28The other two pillars are: (i) macroeconomic stability; and (ii) economic growth for poverty reduction.




                                                   20

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
This section summarizes progress in terms of the PDO outcomes and output indicators. Annex 2
provides further details on the achievements of the Project while Section 3.3. and Annex 3
present the efficiency and economic analysis.

Assessment of PDO outcome achievements.

Increased access to and utilization of social and economic infrastructure. The Project supported
the execution of over 2,600 small-scale sub-projects during the period of implementation, which
benefited over 3.7 million people in the country. These projects were implemented in all 153
municipalities of the country. The impact evaluation undertaken over the period 2004-2006
identifies indicators on which FISE had a positive and significant impact in different areas: In
particular, FISE increased access to latrines and water, satisfaction with drinking water services,
had a positive impact on the percentage of births attended by qualified medical staff, and reduced
the average distance to school. Section 3.3 and Annex 3 of the ICRR present further details on
these impacts29.

Distribution of per capita investment. Taking as a baseline the information reported in the FISE
III ICR (beneficiaries in the group of municipalities in extreme poverty received a per capita
investment of US$55, those in high poverty US$30 and those in medium poverty US$21), the per
capita investment at the Closing Date shows a progressive trend of poverty targeting of
investments, with per capita investment in extreme poverty municipalities increasing by almost
11 percent (from US$55 to US$61), while the ones in the high poverty group increased by 46
percent (from US$30 to US$44). Overall, municipalities in extreme poverty received 30 percent
of the total project investments, the group in high poverty received 31 percent, those in medium
poverty received 19 percent, and those in low poverty received 20 percent. The above
achievement significantly surpasses the expected targets set for the end of the Project cycle,
which were 31 percent, 27 percent, 19 percent and 24 percent respectively for these categories.
The four groups vary in population size (the low poverty group was home to 57 percent of the
population in 2000, while the extreme poverty group only comprised around 12 percent of the
population). Hence, focusing on the per capita investment provides a more accurate picture of the
targeting of FISE's investment. Table 2 presents the annual per capita investment for urban and
rural areas, and shows progressive targeting of the investments, with higher averages in poorer
municipalities and in rural areas. In addition, the table shows a substantial increase in the level of
investment, especially in extremely poor municipalities.

 Table 2: FISE annual per capita investment in different types of municipalities (in dollars)
                                                 2000-2004                           1991-1998
   Municipality group          Total           Rural areas       Urban areas            Total
   Extreme poverty              10.4               10.1              11.5                6.7
   High poverty                 11.4               11.9              10.3                7.4
   Medium poverty               7.8                 8.5              6.5                 2.5
   Low poverty                  2.3                 3.4              1.9
   Total                        5.5                 8.2              3.5                 5.0
    Source: CABAL (2007).




29Source: CABAL (2007), Evaluación de Impacto Ex Post de los Proyectos del Fondo de Inversión Social
de Emergencia, Managua, Nicaragua.




                                                 21

When breaking down the distribution of projects by areas of interventions, it appears that
investments in health, education and water and sanitation are the best targeted to poorer
municipalities. Investments in community services (which represent 19 percent of total
investments) are less well targeted to the poorest municipalities, related in part to the nature of the
interventions, which are more likely to be in more densely populated urban areas (streets, sports
fields, lighting, garbage disposal, etc.).

Data from the household living standard measurement survey of 2005 reveal a pro-poor incidence
of FISE's investments at the household level too, with the notable exception of projects in
community works, which show a regressive distribution. Indeed, investments in health, education,
social protection and water and sanitation benefit the poor more than the non-poor.

Figure 1: Pro-Poor Incidence of FISE's Investments at the household level

                        35                                                             Education
                                                                                       Health
                        30                                                             Water and sanitation

    egat                                                                               Community works
                        25                                                             Social protection

        cenerp(ecnedcinI20


                        15


                        10


                         5


                         0
                             1    2       3              4           5
                                    Household quintile

  Source: Nicaragua Poverty Assessment (2007).

Preventive Maintenance Fund coverage. A total of 151 municipalities (out of a total of 153)
used the PMF for over 8,100 schools and pre-school and 1,250 health facilities, many of these
completed under the previous FISE Credits. This achievement are well over the targets set for the
end of the Project cycle, namely 3,250 schools (around 250 percent of target achieved) and 400
health facilities (over 300 percent of target realized) in 100 municipalities (the geographical scope
that was attained was 51 percent higher).

Assessment of the intermediate output indicators.

Number of project Committees. The number of project committees providing testimony of local
participation in FISE's financed sub-project increased from zero (the baseline) to 2,327 at the end
of the Project cycle, roughly in line with the initial target of 2,400.




                                                   22

Number of municipalities managing their own project cycle. The number of municipalities
managing their own project cycle increased from 9 (the baseline) to 109 at the end of the Project
cycle (12 times), and about twice the expected target (50 municipalities).

Percentage of operating costs. Finally, the percentage of operating costs reported in the ISR with
respect to total disbursements was 13 percent at the end of the project cycle, above the expected
target (11 percent). However, the cost tables in Annex 2 suggests operating costs increased from
US$14.4 million at appraisal (11 percent of the total expected cost) to US$22.1 million (15
percent) at closing. As mentioned above, these costs partly reflect the initial increase in
operational costs associated with the decentralization of FISE's investments to many
municipalities and can be expected to decrease over time, as more municipalities are trained to
take over all aspects of project planning, implementation and monitoring. These also reflect the
extended period of implementation of the project, resulting from the extensions of the closing
date.

Results of program of impact evaluations

The Project integrated a series of evaluations aimed at assessing the impact of innovative
components. The first one aimed at (i) comparing the cost-effectiveness and poverty impact of the
four modalities included in the design of Component A using an experimental design; (ii)
assessing FISE's contribution to achieve the national poverty targets set in ERCERP; (iii)
assessing FISE's contribution in the municipal capacity building process. The baseline data was
collected in 2004 and the follow-up data was collected by December 2006. The evaluation relied
and a survey of 3,200 households, as well as qualitative analysis based on focus groups and
community profiles.

The second study aims at testing the impact of the Attention to Crisis sub-component (using
experimental evaluation methods). The baseline information of the treatment and control groups
were collected prior to the start of the implementation in May 2005 while the second
measurement was conducted 9 months into the execution in August 2006. A qualitative
evaluation was also conducted in June 2006 to explore operational issues.

Finally, the third study focuses on the Atlantic Coast model benefiting indigenous and Afro-
nicaraguan groups. At the time of writing the ICR, a consultant had been contracted for this
analysis (funded by the new IDB loan), and the preliminary findings are expected in the second
semester of 2007.

The impact evaluation undertaken over the period 2004-2006 identified indicators on which FISE
and a positive and significant impact. In terms of welfare impacts, the ability of the impact
evaluation to capture impacts on households is limited by the fact that many had only recently
been implemented at the time of the surveys and by the fact that projects do not necessarily serve
all households in the beneficiary community. In terms of housing characteristics, FISE increased
the satisfaction with drinking water services and the availability of latrines. Water coverage has
been extended to an additional 34,000 families (194,417 individuals), while another 26,000
families have benefited from latrines (145,731 beneficiaries). In terms of economic activity,
FISE had a positive and significant impact on the number of community members employed,
although the average number of hours worked for those working did not improve. In terms of
access and satisfaction with basic services, FISE reduced the average distance to school for
beneficiaries, as well as increased parents' satisfaction with education services (but did not have a
significant impact on enrolment or assistance).In health, FISE only had a positive impact on the
percentage of births attended by qualified personal (the indicator declined for the entire sample,


                                                  23

but declined significantly less in FISE areas), but did not impact indicators of morbidity, despite
the important improvements in the coverage of preventive health services for infants and children
under the age of 6 in the decentralized modalities.

The comparative evaluation of the four modalities of operations of FISE confirms that the
decentralized models have clear advantages: They are valued by the beneficiary communities and
population; they have greater quality, sustainability; and they are more efficient. However, they
are not necessarily the most cost-effective. Greater participation combined with higher quality in
decentralized modalities leads to significantly higher sustainability.

Table 3: Evaluation of efficiency, sustainability and cost-effectiveness of the modalities.
                                      Centralized administration      Decentralized administration

             Modalities              Centralized     Community       Municipal
                                     management      management     management       Community

                                         (1)             (2)            (3)        management (4)


 Efficiency index                        85              82              88              96


 Sustainability index                    63              67              69              80

 Efficiency index/cost                   92              48              32              36
  Source: CABAL 2007.

The analysis of the impact of FISE on local institutional capacity shows a sharp increase in the
internal coordination mechanisms between the different areas of municipal activities, showing
improved internal organization. In addition, the number of associations and groupings increased,
suggesting increases in social capital. Overall, citizens' trust in municipal governments increased
by more than 30%, suggesting greater capacity and performance of municipal administrations. On
the technical front, municipalities have also been strengthened, as reflected by improvements in
information systems, in the number of qualified professionals, and greater technological
equipments. It is important to note that the changes depend on the number of years of
decentralization of projects, suggesting gradual learning and improvements over time.

The impact evaluation for the component Attention to Crisis shows substantial impacts on
nutrition, health, and education outcomes; enhanced asset creation and diverse income generating
choices in non-farm and livestock activities; increased empowerment and aspiration gains; and
strengthened community interactions and dynamics. For instance, enrollment and attendance of
children between 11-15 increased by more than 20%, the number of days that children consumed
highly-nutritional products such as milk and meat doubled, beneficiary households were 30%
more likely to report that their health improved than non-beneficiaries, overall household income
from non-agricultural activities by matching grant beneficiaries increased by more than 60%,
women in beneficiary households were 90% more likely to make the decisions about food
purchases than women in non-beneficiary households, and participation in various community
activities increased between 23 and 43 %.

These outcomes and impacts are further discussed in Annex 3. Based on the above-information,
the ICR rates the achievement of PDO as satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency
In terms of targeting, the analysis of FISE sub-projects shows a clear improvement in the
targeting of resources to municipalities with high poverty level. Indeed, as presented above,
municipalities in extreme and high poverty received 30 and 31 percent of total investments


                                                 24

respectively (see Figure 1). However, the poorest municipalities tend to have smaller populations
then richer ones. Hence, in terms of per capita resources, they received significantly more than
richer municipalities. Figure 1 shows that, in 2006, municipalities in extreme poverty received on
average $61 per inhabitant, followed by municipalities in high poverty ($44 per inhabitant), while
municipalities in medium or low poverty received $29 and $9 per capita respectively.

  Figure 2: Share of resources directed to municipalities (%) and per capita resources
  received by municipalities ($) in 2006

 70
                                                            Per capita resources 2006 ($)
            61
 60                                                         Total share of resources 2006 (%)


 50
                                  44

 40

                  30                     31
                                                         29
 30

                                                                                        21
                                                                19
 20

                                                                                  9
 10


  0
            extreme                 high                  medium                     low

                                Type of municipality (poverty level)

  Source: Cabal (2007).

The impact of FISE on local institutional capacity has also been significant, with a sharp increase
in the internal coordination mechanisms between the different areas of municipal activities,
increased in the number of associations and groupings, and improvements in municipal
information systems, the qualification of professionals and technological equipments. As
mentioned earlier, the number of municipalities which manage project cycles on their own
increased more than 10 fold, as a result of technical assistance and supervision of FISE.

The analysis focusing on the comparative performance of alternative service delivery
mechanisms suggests that the quality of the projects is greatest when the projects are
implemented by the municipality (whether in a decentralized municipality or not), with on
average 90 percent of project of good or very good quality, versus percentages of 80-85 percent
for projects managed centrally. Similarly, the projects implemented by the municipalities are
those for which the community is most involved in maintenance. In terms of cost, the cheapest
projects were those in decentralized municipalities that were managed by the municipalities
themselves. The analysis shows that the projects implemented by the municipalities (whether
decentralized or not) were the most efficient and sustainable, although not necessarily the most
cost-effective.

In terms of costs, the analysis carried out before the Project concluded that FISE is not more
expensive than other agencies, taking into account all construction and administrative costs and
the quality of the end-products. The studies also point out the fact that FISE generally makes use



                                                25

of higher quality materials and better construction methods, covers more diverse geographic areas,
and exerts a better control and supervision of its projects.

A survey of projects supported by FISE suggests that around 90 percent of the projects were of
good, very good or excellent quality (the rate varies by modality, with 84 percent for projects
managed by municipalities, 93 percent for projects managed centrally, and around 89 percent for
projects managed by communities). Beneficiaries corroborated these results, during focus group
discussions, in which they approved the quality of projects at an average rate of 75 percent.

Through its promotion and use of participatory decision-making at the local level, FISE also
contributes to fostering greater allocative efficiency in public expenditure at the local level.

The ICR rates the efficiency of this Project as satisfactory.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the three ratings mentioned immediately above, the ICR rates the overall outcome of
this Project as satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
As described in Sections 3.2 and 3.3, the Project components have consolidated FISE's position
as one of the main players in social-related investments in the country. In addition, the impact
evaluations have highlighted the Projects' effect on poverty and social development, as well as its
impact on the social capital and capacity of the poor and extreme poor segments of the population.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
A relevant outcome of this Project has been its contribution to institutional capacity at the
municipal and community levels. In particular, the evaluation indicates that FISE contributed to
the institutional capacity of municipalities in the period 1999-2004. The analysis shows a sharp
increase in the internal coordination mechanisms between the different areas of municipal
activities, showing improved internal organization. In addition, the number of associations and
groupings increased, suggesting a more active local life. On the technical front, municipalities
have also been strengthened, as reflected by improvements in information systems, in the number
of qualified professionals, and greater technological equipments. The analysis shows that
decentralized municipalities came out significantly better than the centralized ones in the
following dimensions: (i) management tools, processes and internal coordination mechanisms;
(ii) mixed skill among its technical staff; (iii) management information systems; (iv) community
mobilization capacity; and (v) size and relevance of sub-projects undertaken.

Overall, the number of municipalities which manage project cycles on their own increased
substantially, as mentioned earlier. As a result of improvements in local capacity, FISE is
considering a reclassification of selected municipalities into categories which benefit from more
decentralized projects. The analysis of the pilots for decentralized project management, presented
earlier, showed that the decentralized approach performed better than the centralization model.




                                                  26

FISE has adapted its structure and staffing to the new requirements of a more decentralized
approach to project management and implementation. This transformation has strengthened its
mechanisms, including fiduciary ones, as well as its technical capacity to accompany and monitor
municipalities in the design and implementation of projects.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not required for this core ICR.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The ICR considers that the developmental outcomes derived from most of the sub-projects
financed under Component A, especially those managed by the municipalities and by the
communities will be maintained after the closing of this Credit. The field trip carried out by the
ICR team attested to the fact that investments completed under FISE I and II are still being fully
utilized by the beneficiaries, some of which are maintained by the PMF. In addition, these types
of investments are continuing at the time of the writing of the ICR being financed by a new IDB
credit and a new KfW grant.

The intervention model is based on greater decentralization, which was tested and implemented
by this project has been retained by the IDB for its new credit supporting FISE. Hence, the
achievements of this project in terms of local level capacity and greater coordination at the local
level are likely to be maintained.

In the case of the Attention to Crisis pilot, the World Bank is continuing its dialogue and
providing technical assistance to the Ministry of the Family, as the Government works to
formulate its social protection program, and to formulate the next phase of the Red de Protección
Social.

The risk that the development outcomes will not be maintained after the loan cancellation is rated
moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The Bank provided effective project preparation support to the Borrower through a highly
qualified and experienced Bank team that was familiar with the previous three FISE operations.
This team championed the innovative features contained in this Project. The Bank preparation
team needs to be commended for having facilitated, in a participatory fashion, a results-
framework workshop among other donors and the Borrower. The agreements reached among the
participants with respect to the results-framework provided the required cohesion between the


                                                 27

different project preparation actors during the lending phase. Also to be commended is the Bank
preparation team's effort in working hand in hand with the other donors and the Borrower under
the common agenda provided by the results-framework. The project files seem to indicate an
excellent rapport and transparent and timely communication between the Borrower and the Bank
team during the entire preparation phase. The proposed design was backed by a series of
thoroughly conducted studies contracted with qualified consulting firms and/or individuals
already mentioned in section 2.1.

As explained in section 2.1, greater attention to quality at entry, especially insofar as having
completed several aspects of preparation before Credit approval, could have shortened the delays
that actually happened after Board approval. The seven months elapsing from identification to
appraisal seem to have been too short to allow for the Borrower to internalize the fundamental
managerial and oversight requirements posed by the fundamental changes imbedded in the
innovative design of this operation as compared to the three previous FISE Credits. The proposed
Project design significantly departed from the input-oriented infrastructure investments of the
previous operations and required modifications to FISE's organizational structure and oversight
mechanisms and procedures.

However, as detailed in section 2.1, the lending phase established the strong basis for the new
model of service delivery through the agreement reached between FISE and INIFOM, which laid
the basis for their coordination and collaboration. In addition, the timeline for preparation ensured
maximum continuity in FISE's operation. The preparation Team worked with the institution to
ensure the models it had developed and which had proven effective would be adopted for its
operations during the next phase. Ensuring Project appraisal and approval before the political
transition has proven to be essential in laying the foundations for this continuity.

Weighting the relevant achievements and shortfall of the Bank at the lending stage, the ICR rates
the Bank performance at the lending stage as moderately satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The Project was managed by two Task Team Leaders. The first one, also responsible for the
supervision and closing of the previous operation, covered the entire preparation process and its
implementation up to the end of 2004; the second one covered from the end of 2004 until the
closing of the Credit. The reading of the project files indicates that there was continuity among
the TTLs.

After Board approval, this investment was subject to 22 general and specific field supervision
missions30 during the period December 2001 to December 2006, an average of 4 supervision
missions per year. These missions were held jointly with the other involved donors, namely IDB
and KfW, ensuring greater donor harmonization. In summary, this investment was subject to
continuous supervision by the bilateral and multilateral donors.




30The specific field supervision missions were for financial management, ex-post procurement review,
decentralization strategy for indigenous (Misquitos) and Afronicaraguan groups in the Atlantic Coast and
the Attention to Crisis sub-component.




                                                   28

The supervision missions seem to have included the appropriate skill-mix to carry out their
envisaged terms of reference. The fact that there are 12 Project Supervision Reports (PSRs) and
ISRs seems to indicate that these were updated, on average, at least twice a year.

The ICR notes that the Bank supervision highlighted results-focused missions, induced the
carrying out of impact evaluation studies and followed up closely the status on key performance
indicators as generated by FISE's MIS. Despite this commendable situation, reporting by the
supervision teams as attested by the Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports and PSRs (up to an
including sequence number 8) of the first 13 supervision running up to December 2004, do not
provide quantitative information on achievement of outcomes and outputs as described in Annex
1 of the PAD nor on the Credit's documented disbursements.

Bank supervision missions supported FISE's gradual transformation into a more decentralized
operation enriched with a social dimension of local institutional capacity building at the
municipal and community levels.

Bank supervision missions also displayed intense and consistent efforts during political transition
periods, during the first semester of 2002 and the first semester of 2005.

The findings of each supervision mission were conveyed to Bank management clearly and in a
straightforward fashion, including the implementation shortcomings and potential risks assessed
by the Bank team.

Weighting the above, Bank supervision performance is considered as satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the above lending and supervision observations and ratings, the ICR rates the overall
Bank performance as satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

At the lending stage.

Rating: Satisfactory

The Project was prepared, appraised and negotiated during the Aleman administration, which
provided full support to project preparation, including mobilizing SETEC to play a key role in
project design. Qualified and experienced staff from FISE, involved in the execution of the then
ongoing IDA-financed FISE III Credit, participated in the preparation cycle. The lending cycle
benefited from the longest tenure ever had by a FISE President (1991-2001), fostering a
conducive environment for organizational vision and the stability of seasoned professional and
technical staff.




                                                29

The preparation phase received funding from a Japanese PHRD Grant (TF025845) of
US$500,000 approved by the Bank on August 23, 1999 and countersigned by the GoN on
September 1, 1999. A balance of about US$34,640 remained at the time this Grant closed on May
31, 2001.

Project preparation was also characterized by FISE's own initiative, fully supported by the Bank
preparation team, to transform its historical operational paradigm to better support the ongoing
national decentralization process. As explained elsewhere in the ICR, there was a gradual
approach to the envisaged changes requiring constant support and reinforcement by the Bank.
Accordingly, by mid 2003, FISE had positioned itself to manage the implementation required by
the Project's design.

Rating: The Borrower's performance during preparation is considered satisfactory.

At the implementation stage.

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The President and the Cabinet of the Government of Nicaragua provided continued support to the
Project throughout its implementation. In addition, the Borrower endorsed the carrying out of
rigorous impact evaluations and analysis of the experience, with a clear objective of learning
from the piloting of new approaches and models. This demonstrates a strong commitment to
constantly improving interventions performance. Finally, the Borrower gave significant freedom
to FISE management to best conduct the implementation of this Credit.

On the other hand, the Borrower might have at times hindered project execution, by requiring
lengthy discussions for the new administration to support the mandate and approach of FISE, by
frequently changing the high-level management positions (seven changes in FISE's President
during the project cycle), by putting in place tight control mechanisms (e.g. through Law 550), by
delaying the allocation of counterpart funding for the Credit, and by failing to establish
systematic, clear mechanisms to coordinate the activities of agencies (although, during Project
preparation, a major step was made with the agreement between FISE and INIFOM).

Rating: Overall, the Borrower provided strong support and freedom to FISE management to
implement the Project, and the Borrower performance at the implementation stage is rated as
moderately satisfactory.

Overall Rating of Borrower's Performance: The Borrower maintained its strong support to
the Project from preparation to implementation and demonstrated strong commitment to
constantly learn and improve performance. Therefore, the overall Borrower performance is rated
as satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: This project has three implementing agencies: FISE (which executed 93 percent of the
IDA funds) is rated satisfactory, while SETEC and MIFAMILIA (executed less than 7 percent of
the total funds) are rated moderately satisfactory. Considering the relative importance of the
agencies, if an overall rating is to be assigned for Implementing Agency performance, it would be
satisfactory.




                                                  30

Of the three implementing agencies for this Project, FISE was in charge of implementing
Components A, B, and D of the project as well as parts of Component C, while MIFAMILIA and
SETEC were in charge of implementing the rest of Component C. FISE also managed the early
implementation stages of some of MIFAMILIA's activities before transferring responsibility.
SETEC managed the implementation of the Social Protection Operative Strategy, the SNIP, the
Window for Municipal Services and the Service Provision Centers. It is worth noting that the
Project never established a project implementation unit but utilized the mainstream institution.
Two Special Accounts were opened for FISE and MIFAMILIA (SETEC activities were
implemented by FISE).

FISE. FISE's frequent turnover of high-level management had a negative impact on the early
stages of project implementation as each new team needed to assimilate the project's ethos and
procedures.

In time, FISE matured as an institution in its relationship with other government agencies and in
terms of methodologies and innovative processes in community development. FISE evolved from
an institution merely providing access for the poor to basic infrastructure to an important social
actor in poverty reduction and local development through the implementation of the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Program and the National Development Plan.

FISE's robust and sophisticated MIS provided accurate and timely information about outcomes
and outputs, which were crucial for consolidating the targeting procedures to better serve the
poorest segments of population. FISE was also central in ensuring that the impact evaluation
studies be contracted. FISE, managing about 95 percent of the IDA Credit proceeds, was
responsible for achieving most of the agreed project targets set for in the revised results
framework.

Overall, weighting these different elements, FISE's performance is rated satisfactory.

SETEC. As fully explained in Annex 2 of the ICR, the four sub-components financed under the
Credit and entrusted to SETEC were completed. The SNIP continues to operate in a strengthened
fashion. The social protection strategy is still subject to endorsement and implementation by the
new Government, but SETEC has already started its effort to further rationalize social protection
programs. The other two sub-components, the Window for Municipal Services and the Service
Provision Centers, were not institutionalized after their pilot phase.

Accordingly, the ICR rates the implementing performance of SETEC as moderately satisfactory.

MIFAMILIA. MIFAMILIA managed about 5 percent of the total IDA Credit. The Attention to
Crisis was implemented in a short time period and developed a very strong information system
for this program, as well as a rigorous evaluation of its impact. The Ministry used this program to
test innovative programs and did extract many lessons from the experience. As mentioned earlier,
however, mirroring a broader issue within the Government of Nicaragua, the difficulties
encountered by MIFAMILIA in entering into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Ministry
of Health hindered its execution.

The ICR mission rates the performance of MIFAMILIA as moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance




                                                  31

Rating: Satisfactory

Weighing the ratings of the Borrower at the lending and implementation phases, with the ratings
of FISE (responsible for managing 95 percent of the Credit), SETEC and MIFAMILIA, the ICR
rates the overall Borrower performance as satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

(a)     Bottom-up and demand-driven initiatives can improve the quality and relevance of
social and economic investments. Ownership of the improvement process by stakeholders
involved in deciding and implementing their own interventions is greatly enhanced. The role of a
central or departmental authority under this decentralized/CDD context, is to facilitate the
implementation process of the bottom-up interventions under a results-based agreement
framework (contracts) agreed with the beneficiary stakeholders, to build their implementation
capacity and to provide incentives for compliance.

(b)     CDD must be integrated with local government programs rather than by-pass them
in order to ensure long-term sustainability of the small-scale social and economic investments
carried out at the community level, provide enabling conditions for the scaling up and prevent
erosion of local capacity.

(c)     The choice of targeting approach is relevant for equity, transparency, program
ownership and effectiveness. There are important trade-offs between targeting based on
objective methodologies versus selection by leaders. Techniques using data to define eligibility
provide rigor and avoid subjectivity, but can lead to exclusion errors. On the other hand, selection
by leaders leaves room for subjective selection, but can help ensure a complete mapping of
households. Experience suggests that combining objective procedures and participatory methods
can enhance the program's acceptance and effectiveness.

(d)     One model does not fit every situation. Cultural diversity needs to be factored in a
project design. The project activities for the RAAS and RAAN regions could not be implemented
until the cultural aspects and behavioral patterns of the beneficiaries were appropriately translated
into operational terms. Standardized procedures and documents are not necessarily applicable
everywhere.

(e)     Small-scale social investments implemented without appropriate complementary
sectoral strategies have mixed impacts. Global evidence has shown that constructing or
repairing schools and health posts can increase access to social services, but are not sufficient to
improve learning outcomes or reduce maternal/child mortality and morbidity indicators.
Complementary sectoral measures are required (like training teachers and principals, providing
schools with learning materials, working with parents, etc.) to achieve synergy and have an
impact on poverty. The integrality achieved by this Project connecting infrastructure, capacity
building and community and local government participation needs to be coordinated with the
strategies and specific programs of line Ministries and agencies to achieve greater synergy.

(f)     Coordination of social policies and strategies at the national level is still an
unfinished agenda in Nicaragua. The Nicaraguan State needs to significantly strengthen its
coordinating efforts among line Ministries and agencies to increase effectiveness and efficiencies
in a context of limited financial, physical and technical resources. An agency like a strengthened
SETEC acting as a Technical Secretariat of a Social Policy Cabinet is one way to pursue this.



                                                 32

(g)     Decentralized programs require strong capacity, incentives, assistance, and
monitoring. As local capacity and incentives are often constrained, technical assistance and
capacity building of local counterparts are crucial to ensure satisfactory implementation.
Decentralized program implementation is likely to work better when there is clarity among
implementing actors on the design and the objectives, and with a clearly defined system with
accountability mechanisms for each operational level. Finally, decentralized programs need to be
implemented following the municipal political and administrative calendar and not the one of the
central agencies and/or Ministries.

(h)     Impact evaluation included at the onset of project implementation and monitoring
are needed as a means to correct course if it becomes necessary. They also provide appropriate
information to test alternative mechanisms, prior to scaling-up. This project paid close attention
to establishing a functional MIS and a series of evaluations.

(i)     Political support and ownership as good predictor of success. Change of Governments
increases the likelihood of shifts in policy and execution strategy, and of changes in key players
delaying physical and financial implementation. Therefore, the timing of the preparation and
implementation of the new investment was critical to ensure continuity in the operation. In
general, it is important to sustain a continuous dialogue.

(j)     Ensuring implementation readiness conditions prior to negotiations leads to a more
effective and timely physical and financial execution cycle. The delays in physical and financial
implementation experienced by this project could have been mitigated, had the Bank team and
management ensured appropriate implementation readiness conditions at the time of appraisal.

(k)     Those that prepare from the Borrower side ought to be the ones to implement to
avoid an early functional disconnect likely to slow down project implementation. Ensuring this
connectivity was a key and commendable feature imbedded in the project design.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

    (a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Comments of FISE
The comments from FISE are presented in Annex 7 in Spanish. This section summarizes the main
points: FISE noted that the performance of the Bank during project preparation was very
satisfactory. In addition to the credit, the Bank administered the Japanese Trust Fund, which
allowed FISE to explore alternative modalities. The Bank team participated in all aspects of the
project, including the implementation plan and selection of key indicators of performance. The
area of rural water and sanitation was largely supported by the Bank, which, with KfW, was the
main promoter of the transfer of the responsibility to FISE. The Bank team also contributed
substantially to the design of M&E activities and supported directly the evaluation of FISE's
impacts. The Bank was the main advocate and financier of the process of decentralization, which
evaluations show was a key element to the strengthening of municipalities' capacity. The
performance of the Bank in terms of supervision was also very satisfactory. The continuity of the
Bank staff and its experience promoted this supervision and a close coordination. The overall
performance of the Bank is qualified as very satisfactory.

The Minister of the Family, Rosa Adilia Vizcaya Briones wrote on September 6, 2007 that the
Ministry wants to highlight that the work of the World Bank team has been excellent and has



                                                 33

contributed greatly to the successful completion of the execution of the Component Atención a
Crisis (see email in Annex 7).

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not applicable

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


(Total rows and percentage column will be calculated by the system)
                                      Appraisal Estimate (USD
            Components                           M)                Actual/Latest Estimate       Percentage of

                                            (US$ million)                 (USD M)                 Appraisal

 A. Sub-project financing                       102.40                      104.28                  101.84


B. Strengthening local capacity                  7.50                        6.56                   87.47


C. Developing a coherent social                  7.00                        4.77                   68.14
    safety net


 D. Project Management                           19.10                      31.99                   167.49


Total                                           136.00                      147.60                  108.53


(b) Financing


(The appraisal estimate will be pre-populated from the Financing data in SAP/AUS; Percentage of Appraisal column
will be calculated by the system)
                                           Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate
 Source of Funds           Type of                                                              Percentage of
                        Cofinancing             (USD M)                    (USD M)
                                              (US$ million)              (US$ million)            Appraisal

IDA                                            60.00 (46.70)              65.88 (43.89)         109.80 (93.98)

Borrower                 counterpart              17.24                      22.11                  128.25

IBD                        Parallel               50.00                      49.94                  99.88

Swedish
                           Parallel                3.00                       2.67                  89.00
Government

KfW                        Parallel                5.00                       6.25                  124.80

Japanese PHRD
                           Parallel                0.76                       0.75                  98.68
Grant

Total                                             136.00                     147.60                 108.50
In parenthesis in SDRs
(c) Disbursement Profile


(system generated graph)




                                                         34

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

This section describes the outputs of components including all sources of financing (GoN, the
Bank, IDB, the Swedish and Japanese Governments and KfW) to provide a holistic view. When
applicable, the outcomes financed only by the Bank have been highlighted. The assessment is
based on the Borrower's 2002-2006 Execution Reports by the three implementing agencies (FISE,
MIFAMILIA and SETEC) refereed to in the list of references in Annex 9 of the ICR.

Two cost tables are presented to substantiate the story provided in the ICR: (a) the documented
expenditure by component and by source of financing at appraisal and at the time of closing the
IDA Credit; and (b) the documented expenditure by category and by source of financing at
appraisal and at the time of closing the Credit. Since the IDA Credit was provided in SDRs, the
equivalent amounts in US dollars are shown in both tables, considering that at the time of Board
approval one SDR was equivalent to about 1.28479 US dollars, while at the time of closing the
Credit the equivalence increased to 1.5022.

In addition, this annex presents the results framework of the PAD and the indicators used in the
ISRs and the ICR datasheet.

Component A ­ Sub-project financing. This Component was expected to cost US$102.4
million equivalent at appraisal (US$47.5 million equivalent from IDA and US$54.9 million
equivalent from the Borrower and other donors) and ended up disbursing and documenting
US$104.17 million equivalent at the time of the closing of the Credit (US$54.78 million
equivalent from IDA and US$49.5 million equivalent from the Borrower and other donors), about
101.7 percent of the expected total cost.

The bulk of the documented expenditure against the IDA Credit (about 97 percent) was allocated
to finance goods and works included in the design and execution of 2,633 small-scale social and
economic development investments (out of which, 1,200 were financed by the IDA Credit) that
benefited over 3.7 million poor people in the country in 153 municipalities (100 percent of the
total existing in Nicaragua) and provided temporary employment to about 223,000 people in these
communities involved in the carrying out of the small-scale investments. About 59.6 percent of
the sub-projects benefited municipalities belonging to the two lowest income groups (severely
and extreme poverty) covering about 35 percent of the poorest population in Nicaragua. The
remaining 40.4 percent were targeted to municipalities in the third and fourth income groups
(medium and minor poverty) covering 65 percent of the total poor population.

The distribution of these projects by social sector were as follows: (i) 42.9 percent in education,
mostly in the primary education level; (ii) 20.6 percent in community-related works, mostly in
rural roads and pavement of city streets, but also including bridges, markets and sporting
facilities; (iii) 17.8 percent in water and sewage, mostly in rural areas, but also including some
urban ones; (iv) 15.5 percent in health, mostly primary health outposts, but also including some
secondary-level health services; and (v) 3.2 percent in safety-net related works like soup kitchens,
shelters for elderly people and battered women and housing.

In terms of concrete outputs, this Component financed the construction and/or rehabilitation of
3,268 classrooms (mostly in the primary education level, out of which 1,268 were financed by the
IDA Credit), the acquisition of about 75,000 pieces of school furniture (student's desks and chairs,
out which 30,600 were financed by IDA), the installation of over 48,000 latrines (21,154 financed
by IDA) and close to 40,000 new domiciliary connections to water as well as the excavation
and/or rehabilitation of about 1,500 water-wells, the rehabilitation of about 170 kilometers of


                                                35

rural roads, the pavement of about 107 kilometers of cobblestone streets in small communities
and the construction and/or rehabilitation of about 1,000 primary health centers (149 financed by
IDA).

A survey of projects supported by FISE suggests that around 90 percent of the projects were of
good, very good or excellent quality (the rate varies by modality, with 84 percent for projects
managed by municipalities, 93 percent for projects managed centrally, and around 89 percent for
projects managed by communities). Beneficiaries corroborated theses results during focus group
discussions, in which they approved the quality of projects at an average rate of 75 percent.

The undertaking of these sub-projects included capacity building through community training in
participatory project design, execution and oversight. Training was provided before and during
the design process as well as during the sub-project execution. Training included cross-sectoral
themes, such as, gender, environment and community participation. The financing of these
training activities were included under Component B. A total of 105,500 persons benefited from
these training activities during 2002-2006.

The four instruments utilized by Component A were: (i) participatory micro-planning activities
for the sub-project stakeholders to agree on the type and location of the investment; (ii)
participatory project design; (iii) management and oversight in project execution; and (iv)
utilization of the PMF mainly for education and health sub-projects. A total of 151 municipalities
(out of a total of 153) used the PMF for over 8,100 schools and pre-school and 1,250 health
facilities, many of these completed under the previous FISE Credits.

Table 4: Use of the Preventive Maintenance Fund

        Year            Municipalities        Schools          Pre-schools        Health centers

        2002                  75               1,422               0                   201
        2003                  93               1,621               0                   256
        2004                  85               1,398               3                   242
        2005                  82               2,002               45                  311
        2006                  72               1611                1                   253
      TOTAL                  151               8,054               49                 1,263
Source: FISE information system

Approved and executed sub-projects were classified in four categories depending on who
managed the design and execution and on the kind of municipality in which the sub-project was
implemented. Accordingly: (i) about 54 percent of the investments were managed directly by
FISE in a centralized fashion; (ii) another 34.5 percent were managed by so-called decentralized
municipalities; (iii) 7 percent were managed directly by the communities; and (iv) 4.6 percent had
community participation but were managed by FISE in a deconcentrated fashion in the so-called
centralized municipalities.

The implementation of sub-projects required the establishment of an Oversight and Maintenance
Committee (Comités de Seguimiento y Mantenimiento) to exercise social control and auditing of
the investment and ensure ownership. These Committees included six members of the community
elected by sub-projects beneficiaries and municipal authorities. A total of 2,739 such Committees
were established during 2002-06.

Random spot-checks by Bank supervision missions and FISE officials attested to the utilization
of the investments by the stakeholders once the works were completed, providing, in turn


                                                36

evidence of sustainability. According to the Project files, close to 100 percent of the investments
financed under Component A are being utilized by the benefited population. In addition, FISE,
through its MIS, followed the sub-project cycle (from design to post-completion utilization
including execution) and registered the quality of the completed works as assessed by their
supervisors, the Oversight Committees, NGOs and other social control actors at the time of
completion and release of the final payment. According to such information, about 90 percent of
the works are of good quality.

With respect to the Atlantic Coast activities, the project financed the design, execution and
completion of 26 sub-projects in RAAN benefiting about 254,000 people and 14 sub-projects in
RAAS benefiting another 130,000 people. In both regions, most of the beneficiaries were
indigenous and Afro Nicaraguan groups. As part of these sub-projects, about 2,600 teachers
received in-service training in mathematics, multi-level teaching and bilingual education.

Rating: Weighting the above facts, the ICR team grants a satisfactory rating to the
implementation of Component A.

Components B - Strengthening local capacity. This Component was expected to cost US$7.5
million equivalent at appraisal (US$3.1 million equivalent from IDA and US$4.4 million
equivalent from the Borrower and other donors) and eventually disbursed and documented
US$6.49 million equivalent (US$3.1 million equivalent from IDA and US$3.4 million equivalent
from the Borrower and other donors), about 86.5 percent of the expected total.

Almost the totality of the IDA Credit documented expenditure for this component was allocated
to training and provision of technical assistance. As mentioned above, the carrying out of 2,633
small-scale community and municipal investments required the provision of technical assistance,
materials and training to facilitate: (i) the identification and design of the sub-projects in a
participatory fashion; (ii) the management and oversight of sub-projects in execution; (iii) the
maintenance of sub-projects after completion, especially through the use of the PMF; (iv) the
capacity building in the 153 technical units in the participating municipalities involving 453
municipal technical staff, out of which 98 municipalities (21 ranked 1 and 77 ranked 2 in FISE's
decentralization scale) have been strengthened to the point were they are now technically capable
of managing these investments by themselves; and (v) other stakeholders, like NGOs, private
firms and other representatives of local communities, to participate in carrying out of Component
A.

This implementation of this Component also greatly benefited from the technical and financial
support of the IDB and KfW financed-projects aiming at strengthening municipal capacity and
fostering participatory community and municipal micro-planning.

Rating: Given the above facts, the ICR team rates the implementation of Component B as
satisfactory.

Component C ­ Development of a social safety net. This Component was expected to cost
US$7.0 million equivalent at appraisal (100 percent financed by the IDA Credit) and ended up
disbursing and documenting US$4.8 million equivalent at the time of the closing of the Credit.
About 57 percent of the expenditure was allocated to finance component-related sub-projects, 38
percent to providing technical assistance and the rest, 5 percent, to acquire goods.

Sub-component C1. Social protection strategy under the Development Solidarity System. This
sub-component, fully anchored in GoN's National Development Plan and ERCERP, aimed at


                                                37

articulating the different policies, strategies and programs focusing on improving the social
conditions of the poor and vulnerable groups. The social protection strategy was neither a
program nor a series of specific investment activities. Rather, it provided the municipality with
the strategic tools to harmonize growth and employment programs with those aimed at improving
the quality of life of vulnerable groups. It was also seen as tool to prevent political patronage
criteria from dominating investment agendas at the municipal levels. The sub-component was
developed by SETEC and INIFOM (Instituto Nicaragüense the Fomento Municipal).

The first instrument was a methodology to identify and target vulnerable groups and identify their
risks, in order to develop a municipal poverty map. The second instrument referred to the
translation of the diagnostic of municipal vulnerable groups into a (territorial) Municipal
Development Plan (explained below under the title of Service Provision Centers). This Plan
aimed at harmonizing the supply of social services with demand at the municipal level, and
deriving a series of priority actions for the PIMM. The last strategic instrument linked the time-
bound action plan of the Municipal Development Plan with the participatory planning developed
under Component A.

The carrying out of this sub-component required the preparation of guidelines and the training of
municipal and community actors. The methodology was completed in 2003 but only piloted in 5
municipalities in 2006. The findings of the pilots provide SETEC with evidence to support the
endorsement of the Development Solidarity System Five-Year Plan (2005-2009) by the new
administration.

Sub-component C2. National Public Investment System (SNIP). The Project supported the
strengthening of the Public Investment Unit within SETEC in the Office of the President in
charge of (i) formulating policy concerning public investments to be carried out by the different
line Ministries, agencies and institutions; (ii) providing norms and regulations and guiding the
annual process for the formulation of the investment budget; (iii) providing training and technical
assistance to state agencies in their formulation of public investments; and (iv) ensuring quality
by certifying public investment proposals prior to their inclusion in the draft budget to be
discussed by Congress.

The Project financed the: (i) provision of training to staff working on the formulation of annual
public investment proposals for line Ministries, institutions or agencies; (ii) provision of a
certificate/graduate program for higher-level staff in charge of public investments; (iii)
development of a Public Investment Manual; and (iv) acquisition of hardware, software,
equipment and connectivity to link public investment units in Nicaragua with SNIP.

Sub-component C3. Innovation Fund. This sub-component financed four activities: (i) Window
for Municipal Services (Ventanilla de Atención Municipal; (ii) Service Provision Centers; (iii)
FIDES, and (iv) Atencion a Crisis.

(i) Window for Municipal Services (Ventanilla de Atención Municipal). The operationalization of
the Social Protection Strategy described above was piloted in 5 municipalities. The Project
financed the establishment of 56 small technical units in the municipalities where MIFAMILIA
had already a territorial presence office, out of which 22 were financed by the IDA Credit, in
seven departments. The municipalities provided space for these units, which referred poor and
vulnerable groups to social services. This program supported about 1,584 cases but currently
suffers from lack of funding and skilled personnel.




                                                 38

(ii) Service Provision Centers. This program was initiated in 2005 to try and develop a territorial
planning methodology for municipalities to identify existing supply capacity (in particular idle
capacity) of social services, measure effective and unsatisfied demand for those services, and try
and match the two. FISE carried out a pre-investment study and SETEC focused on the design
and piloting. With this methodology, increased efficiency and effectiveness of available social
infrastructure was sought at the municipal level. It was piloted in 17 municipalities. After the
pilot, this experience was not sustained for three reasons. First, at the national level in Nicaragua
there exists a systemic difficulty in ensuring effective coordination among Ministries and
agencies. Second, municipalities have limited capacity and were not able to free their technical
staff to try new methodologies, irrespective of their soundness and medium-term advantages.
Finally, ownership was limited as the methodology was perceived as a central imposition.

(iii) FIDES. This innovation fund, fully donated by the Japanese Government under the
management of the Bank, aimed at strengthening local development social-related initiates among
vulnerable population in 13 communities of 7 municipalities. FIDES pursued the same objectives
as the CDD sub-projects designed and implemented by the communities under Component A.
However, given its particular source of funding, its financial and physical progress monitoring
was carried out under Component C. FIDES was implemented from February 2003 until October
2004. A total of about 860 people benefited from this fund. FIDES also included the training of
beneficiaries in carrying out local diagnosis, setting priorities, project design and execution,
monitoring and assessment, increasing social capital among participants, including community
organization, team work and establishment of social networks. Table 5 presents the allocation of
FIDES at approval in March 2001 and at closing in October 2004.

Table 5: FIDES expenditure (in US$)
 Category                              Initial Allocation        Disbursed and documented at
                                                                           10/31/04
 Consulting                                      468,500                        230,000
 Training                                        102,000                        102,000
 Sub-projects                                    187,000                        410,000
 Auditing                                          8,000                          8,000
 Total                                         765,5000                         750,000
Source: FISE, 2007.

(iv) Attention to Crisis. The program was designed in 2004, piloted in 2005 to address the drought
in the northern region prone to droughts. This sub-component was taken to scale by MIFAMILIA
in November 2005. The program had two objectives: providing a short-run safety net to prevent
losses in human capital as a result of a shock and to promote economic mobility and poverty
reduction through asset creation. The program combined a traditional conditional cash transfer,
with conditions related to health and education, with two additional innovative components
providing households with (i) occupational training (Bono de Formación Ocupacional) or (ii) a
matching grant for productive investment (Bono de Habilitación Productiva). 3,000 families
benefited from the conditional cash transfer, among which around one third also received the
occupational training and another third received the matching grant, conditional on the
development of a business plan outlining the objectives of the business and proposed investments
in non-subsistence farming or non-agricultural income generating activities.

The evaluation of the impact of the Attention to Crisis component shows that the program (i) had
substantial impacts on nutrition, health and education outcomes; (ii) enhanced asset creation and
diverse income generating choices in non-farm livestock activities; (iii) increased empowerment




                                                  39

and aspiration gains; and (iv) strengthened community interactions and dynamics. Section 3.2 and
Annex 3 of the ICR further discuss the impacts of the program.

Rating: The overall impression of the ICR team is that despite the achievements of some of the
activities of Component C, in particular those of the Attention to Crisis pilot, Nicaragua continues
to suffer from fragmented and disconnected poverty reduction programs. In addition, the project
files do not provide evidence that the Project has resulted in increased coherence and coordination
of social protection programs. Accordingly, the team grants a moderately satisfactory rating to
the implementation of Component C.

Component D ­ Project management. This Component was expected to cost US$19.1 million
equivalent at appraisal (US$2.4 million equivalent from IDA and US$16.7 million equivalent
from the Borrower and other donors) and ended up disbursing and documenting US$32.12
million equivalent at the time of the closing of the Credit (US$3.2 million equivalent from the
Bank and US$28.8 million equivalent from the Borrower and other donors), about 168 percent of
the expected total cost. This increase in the cost of management reflects the cost associated with
the shift to more decentralized management, as well as the extended period of implementation of
the Project.

About 74 percent of the documented expenditure against the IDA Credit was allocated to finance
technical assistance (consultants) and the external audits and the rest, about 26 percent, in the
acquisition of goods related to the conduction, management and oversight of the Project, in
particular the establishment and strengthening of the MIS and the impact evaluations.

Project management completed the agreed project activities under the extended time-frame
provided by the two extensions of the closing date and disbursed about 94 percent of the Credit
proceeds. In addition, project management has been instrumental in ensuring that the impact
evaluation studies were contracted, providing valuable information on the achievement of the
activities. Project management has also played a significant role in building the capacity of
municipalities and poor communities. This resulted in making the decentralization process in the
design, execution and maintenance of small-scale investments a reality in Nicaragua. Finally,
project management was able to develop a fully operational MIS providing regular updates on
outcomes, outputs, and the utilization and quality of the investments financed by the project.

Rating: Weighting the strengths shown in the implementation of this component, in particular the
MIS and the carrying out of the impact evaluation studies, with the shortfall arising from an
inefficient management, the ICR team rates the implementation of this Component as
moderately satisfactory.




                                                40

Costs

Table 6: Documented expenditures by component and by source at appraisal and closing of
the Credit (in US$ millions)
 Component       At the time of appraisal      At the time of Credit closing                 Percentages


                IDA         Gov.      Total    IDA       Gov. and       Total
                (1)         and        (3)      (4)         other        (6)      (4)/(1)     (5)/(2)     (6)/(3)
                           other                          donors
                          donors                             (5)
                             (2)
Component A.   47.50        54.90    102.40    54.78        49.5       104.28     115.33      90.16       101.84
Component B.    3.10        4.40      7.50     3.12         3.44         6.56     100.65      78.18       87.47
Component C.    7.00        0.00      7.00     4.77         0.00         4.77     68.14                   68.14
Component D     2.40        16.70     19.10    3..21        28.78       31.99     133.75      172.34      167.49
Total          60.00        76.00    136.00    65.88        81.72      147.60     109.80      107.53      108.53


According to table 6, the total project cost estimated at appraisal was US$136 million equivalent,
corresponding US$60 million equivalent from IDA (44 percent of the total) and US$76 million
equivalent (56 percent of the total) from the GoN and other donors (IDB, KfW and the
Governments of Japan and Sweden). At the time of the closing of the Credit, the total
documented expenditure amounted to US$147.6 million equivalent (108.5 percent of the
appraised total), corresponding to US$65.9 million equivalent from IDA and US$81.7 million
equivalent from the GoN and other donors.

Table 7: Documented expenditures by category and by source at appraisal and closing of
the Credit (in US$ millions)
 Category of       At the time of appraisal        At the time of Credit closing              Percentages
Expenditure


              IDA      Gov. and         Total      IDA        Gov. and      Total
               (1)        other          (3)       (4)          other         (6)      (4)/(1)    (5)/(2)  (6)/(3)
                        donors                                 donors
                           (2)                                   (5)
Sub-projects  46.64       54.90        101.54     56.60         49.90       106.50     121.36      90.90   104.88
Goods         1.00        1.00          2.00       1.13         1.15         2.28      113.00     115.00   114.00
Consultants   6.00        5.20          11.20      7.25         7.87        15.12      120.83     151.35   135.00
Training      0.36        0.50          0.86       0.90         0.73         1.63      150.00     146.00   189.53
Operating     0.00        14.40         14.40      0.00         22.07       22.07                 153.26   153.26
costs
Unallocated   6.00        0.00          6.00       0.00         0.00         0.00
Total         60.00       76.00        136.00     65.88         81.72       147.60     109.80     107.53   108.53


According to table 7, most of the unallocated IDA Credit was transferred to finance sub-projects.
The amount spent on training almost doubled with respect to the appraisal figures, while
operating costs were more than 50 percent above the estimates at appraisal.

Indicators and results framework

As mentioned in Section 1.3 of the ICR, there is equivalence (fully described in table 8 below)
between the PDO outcome and Component output indicators included in the results framework of



                                                     41

the PAD and the ones utilized in the ISRs and the ICR datasheet. This slight modification in the
wording of the indicators resulted from: (i) ensuring more appropriate measurement of the
indicators; and (ii) a directive to limit the number of outcome and output indicators in the new
ISR to no more than 5 each at the time the new ISRs were announced in late 2004.

Table 8: Equivalence of the outcome and output indicators in the PAD and the ISRs
        Text as it appears in Annex 1 of the PAD                 Text as it appears in the ISRs and ICR datasheet
                         Outcomes                                                     Outcomes
(a) Increases in rates of access to and utilization of social PDO 1. Increased access to and utilization of social and
and economic infrastructure                                   economic infrastructure
(b) Improvements in quality of sub-projects                   Information from the quality reports of FISE's technical
                                                              supervision, recorded in the MIS
(c) Evidence that sub-projects are in operation and           PDO 3. Preventive maintenance fund coverage in terms of
maintained for a reasonable number of years, by sub-          the number of establishments of the primary education
project type                                                  and health networks
(d) Increased share of project funding going to the poor      PDO 2. Distribution of per capita investment of projects
and poorest municipalities, communities and households        contracted in each of the poverty categories (in
                                                              US$ millions)
(e) Improvements in local participation in FISE sub-          Information from the modality of approved sub-projects
projects                                                      recorded in the MIS
(f) Increased number of municipalities who managed the        Output 2. Number of municipalities managing the project
project cycle                                                 cycle
(g) Improvements to the social safety net developed and       Evidence that a Social Protection Policy has been
evaluated                                                     developed and approved by the GoN
(h) Satisfactory evaluation of projects financed under the    Information from beneficiaries survey carried out during
innovative fund.                                              the evaluation study by the consulting firm (CABAL)
                          Outputs                                                      Outputs
For Component A:                                              Outputs 1. Number of project committees (to give
(i) Cost and number of sub-projects executed within           testimony of local participation in FISE-financed sub-
agreed time-schedule                                          projects)

(ii) Number of municipalities and communities managing        From MIS
full sub-project cycle
(iii) Number of user committees operating after two years     From MIS
of sub-project completion.
For Component B:
(iv) Up to 100 participatory micro-planning processes         From MIS
carried out, including evidence of quality of such
exercises
(v) 25 municipalities managing project cycle
(vi) At least 100 municipalities participating in the
Maintenance Fund.
For Component C:
(vii) Description and analysis of lessons learned             Findings of the impact evaluation study carried out for
(viii) Positive evaluation of pilot activities.               Component Attention to Crisis
For Component D:                                              Output 3. Percentage of operating costs with respect to
(ix) Share of operating expenses in total budget;             total disbursements
(x) Evidence of correct application of targeting              From MIS
mechanisms (share of investments going to poorest
municipalities)                                               Information from the beneficiaries survey carried out
(xii) Satisfactory ratings by beneficiaries, local and        during the evaluation study by the consulting firm
central government and donors.                                (CABAL)




                                                             42

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

Analysis of FISE sub-projects

Targeting During the period 1991-1998, a rigorous impact evaluation of FISE's operations
found that extremely poor municipalities received more FISE resources per capita than other
municipalities (municipalities in the bottom 3 deciles received 42% of resources). To further
improve this targeting, FISE decided to improve its geographic targeting methodology and
change the project menu. In particular, resource allocation would be based on the 1998 poverty
map, sewerage sub-projects would be halted (they were found to benefit mostly wealthier
municipalities), an innovation fund would be introduced, and a special program for the six
municipalities of the Atlantic Coast region ­ the Indigenous People Development Program ­
would be designed to foster uptake of project by the indigenous and Afro-Nicaraguan groups,
traditionally amongst the poorest.

These changes resulted in a marked improvement in the targeting of investments. Over the
period 2002-2005, the share of investments in the poorer municipalities further increased, as
reflected in Figure 2, where the line for 2002-2005 lying above the line of equality and above
the line for 1991-1998. Results of the indigenous program also showed significant uptake of
activities in the indigenous and Afro-Nicaraguan groups on the basis of community
contracting mechanisms which transferred increased control to these lower-income
communities that are often marginalized within mixed municipalities.

      Figure 3: Share of resources going to municipalities of different poverty levels.

                         100

                          90

                          80

         sec              70

            ourser        60

                          50
                  oferahS 40

                          30                                            1991-98

                          20                                            2002-05
                                                                        line of equality
                          10

                          0
                             1  2  3      4      5       6    7       8       9     10
                                        Municipal poverty ranking


The poorest municipalities (with extreme and high levels of poverty) tend to be smaller in
population terms than the richer ones (with medium and low levels of poverty). Hence, when
focusing on the actual resources invested in municipalities per inhabitant, the municipal level


                                               43

targeting of FISE's investment is even more progressive. Indeed, in 2006, as shown on Figure
3, municipalities with extreme poverty benefited from an average investment of $61 per
inhabitant, versus only $9 in municipalities with low poverty levels.

         Figure 4: Resources targeted to municipalities per inhabitant, by poverty level ($)
   70                                                         Per capita resources 2004 ($)
                  63
                      61                                      Per capita resources 2005 ($)
   60                                                         Per capita resources 2006 ($)


   50       48
                                       45  44

   40                             35
                                                             31    29
   30
                                                         23

   20

                                                                                     9    9
   10                                                                           7


    0
               extreme                 high                medium                   low

                                  Type of municipality (poverty level)



Investments in health, education and water and sanitation were more progressive than projects
in community services and social protection (between 60 and 70% of investments were in high
and extreme poverty municipalities for the former, while only 30 to 40% reached the poorest
for the latter).

Data from the household living standard measurement survey of 2005 reveal a pro-poor
incidence of FISE's investments at the household level too, with the notable exception of
projects in community works, which show a regressive distribution. Indeed, investments in
health, education, social protection and water and sanitation benefit the poor more than the non-
poor (see Figure 1).

Impact on households. The ability of the impact evaluation to capture impacts on households
is limited by two major factors: First, many of the projects in the communities where
households were surveyed had only recently been implemented at the time of the surveys. The
evaluation took place over just two years and average project implementation is a year, hence
many projects had just been completed when the data was collected. This limits the ability to
capture potential impacts on households and individuals, as many of those impacts are only
expected to take place in a significant manner after a certain duration (e.g. changes in health
status linked to better health services or sanitation). Second, it is important to note that the
projects were realized at the level of communities, and did not necessarily serve all households
in that community (for instance, investments in schools only served those families with
children mapped to the particular schools). With this caveats in mind, the impact evaluation
undertaken over the period 2004-2006 identifies indicators on which FISE had a positive and
significant impact.




                                                44

In terms of housing characteristics, FISE increased the satisfaction with drinking water
services and the availability of latrines, extending the water coverage to 34,000 more families
(194,417 individuals), and another 26,000 families have been the recipients of latrines
(145,731 beneficiaries). In terms of economic activity, FISE had a positive and significant
impact on the number of community members employed, although the average number of
hours worked for those working did not improve.

In terms of access and satisfaction with basic services, FISE reduced the average distance to
school for beneficiaries, (contributing 55% of the National project goal for repairing,
expanding and building 2,890 school classrooms from 2000 to 2004), as well as increased
parents' satisfaction with education services (but did not have a significant impact on
enrolment or assistance).In health, FISE had a positive impact on the percentage of births
attended by qualified personal (the indicator declined for the entire sample, but declined
significantly less in FISE areas), but did not impact morbidity variables, despite the important
improvements in the coverage of preventive health services for infants and children under the
age of 6 in the decentralized modalities.

Quality and sustainability. A survey of projects supported by FISE suggests that around 90
percent of the projects were of good, very good or excellent quality. This is corroborated by
beneficiaries during focal group discussions, who approved the quality of projects at an
average rate of 75 percent, and by supervision field visits. FISE has three mechanisms to
monitor and ensure quality ­ supervision through its supervisors, social control (with a
mechanism of complaints) and through a random survey undertaken each semester. Only 5
percent of projects were identified as low quality, through complaints or supervisors, and
corrective measures were taken.

Analysis of alternative modalities. The institutional evolution of FISE has led to the
development of four modalities for the management of projects: (1) Centralized project
management and administration by the central FISE services, (2) Community-level project
management and implementation (PGC ­ Proyectos Guiados por la Comunidad) and
administration by the central FISE services (in centralized municipalities), (3) decentralized
project management and administration at the level of municipalities, and (4) Community-
level management (PGC) and administration by municipalities (in decentralized
municipalities). These models had been previously defined and piloted. The comparative
evaluation of these four modalities confirms that the decentralized models have clear
advantages: they are valued by the beneficiary communities and population; they have greater
quality, sustainability; and they are more efficient. However, they are not necessarily the most
cost-effective, as the average cost of decentralized projects and projects managed by the
community (but administered centrally) are significantly higher. The centralized model with
community level management (modality number 2) has the shortest average time of execution
(just over 6 months), while the other modalities need an average of around a year. In terms of
maintenance, community participation in the decentralized modalities (modalities 3 and 4)
ranges between 82 and 95 percent, while it is around 63 percent in centralized modalities
(modalities 1 and 2). In terms of quality of the projects, around 90 percent of the projects were
found to be of good or very good quality in decentralized modalities (modalities 3 and 4),
versus around 84 percent for projects managed centrally (see Table 8). Greater participation
combined with higher quality in decentralized modalities leads to significantly higher
sustainability.




                                                 45

Table 8: Evaluation of efficiency, sustainability and cost-effectiveness of the modalities
                                             Centralized administration       Decentralized administration

                Modalities                  Centralized      Community        Municipal        Community
                                           management        management     management        management
                                                 (1)              (2)             (3)               (4)

Efficiency index (1)                             85               82              88                96


Sustainability index                             63               67              69                80

  - Quality of Works (% good or very good)       86               82              88                91

  - Resources for maintenances planned           25               22              13                55

  - Community participation (%)                  63               63              95                82

  - adequate personnel and equipment (%)         80               100             80                92

Efficiency index/cost                            92               48              32                36
   (1) index based on measures of realization of objectives in terms of number of beneficiaries, delays in
   implementation and extent to which actual expenditures deviate from plans.
   Source: CABAL 2007.

FISE has deployed large resources to strengthen municipalities' capacity to manage and
administer their own projects. It has organized an innovative model by creating the Gerencias
de Desarrollo Social, which strengthened the capacity of municipalities and facilitated the
relation between FISE and municipalities, while promoting community participation, social
control, and the role of local actors in the design and implementation of the projects. In
addition, FISE created to regional offices in the Atlantic coast, staffed with local specialists,
which provide technical assistance to municipalities in the entire project cycle. FISE also
established the Oficina de Atención al Alcalde to address enquiries related to the municipal
investment plans and the management of projects. The financial service of FISE also
strengthened it units on decentralization and municipal finances to provide technical assistance
to the decentralized municipalities in the financial management of projects. In terms of tools,
FISE developed a package for municipalities, comprising of a cost module, a database of
contractors, and other management tools. For the PGC models (modalities 2 and 4 above),
FISE also created the Ejecutivas de Desarrollo Comunitario, to provide technical assistance
and training to communities in financial management, procurement, and other skills required
for the execution of projects and their maintenance. This was combined with the deployment
of a network of social promotion in 40 municipalities. As a result, all municipalities are now
decentralized and have Municipal Technical Units and Inter-municipal Technical Units, which
are fully trained in the use of tools and software for the administration of projects and the
financial management of the resources transferred from FISE.

Impact on local institutional capacity. The impact of FISE on local institutional capacity
was assessed in 80 municipalities, using the baseline on institutional capacity by the Centro de
Análisis Social Cultural de la UCA in 1999 and data collected in 200431. The analysis shows a
sharp increase in the internal coordination mechanisms between the different areas of
municipal activities, showing improved internal organization. In addition, the number of
associations and groupings increased, suggesting an increased social capital. Overall, citizens'



31Cabal S.A. (2005) Evaluación de Impacto del Ciclo de Proyectos en las Capacidades institucionales
Municipales.




                                                    46

trust of municipal governments increased by more than 30%, while confidence in FISE
remained stable, suggesting greater capacity and performance of municipal administrations.
On the technical front, municipalities have also been strengthened, as reflected by
improvements in information systems, in the number of qualified professionals, and greater
technological equipments. Overall, the number of municipalities which manage project cycles
on their own increased from 9 to 109, as a result of technical assistance and supervision of
FISE. It is important to note that the changes depend on the number of years of
decentralization of projects, suggesting gradual learning and improvements over time. In
addition, the evaluation reveals an increase in municipalities' financial indicators. Indeed, the
decentralization, and more importantly the number of years of decentralization, has an impact
on municipal resources in general, and on their own resources in particular.

Cost. An analysis of costs carried out before this project concluded that FISE is not more
expensive than other agencies, taking into account all construction and administrative costs
and the quality of the end-products. The studies also point out the fact that FISE generally
makes use of higher quality materials and better construction methods, covers more diverse
geographic areas, and exerts a better control and supervision of its projects. FISE has also
played a role in setting standards for the building industry, which are used as reference by
other agencies, underlining its attention to quality.

Greater municipal capacity and local decision-making and contracting seem to have increased
the efficiency of sub-projects, Overall, the evaluation of pilots found that contracting and
procurement was faster and cheaper. Thus, the projects managed locally were more efficient
and sustainable than those managed centrally, although their cost-effectiveness was lower.
However, as noted above, FISE had to deploy a significant share of its resources to effectively
empower communities and/or municipalities to manage and execute projects and ensure
adequate financial management and procurement. These additional activities led to an increase
in the operational costs and the training costs of this project, as documented in Annex 2. The
resulting gradual strengthening of municipalities' capacity is a key element of the
Government's broader decentralization process.

Through its promotion and use of participatory decision-making at the local level, FISE also
contributes to fostering greater allocative efficiency in public expenditure at the local level.
The increased use of participatory municipal investment plans, made mandatory by a 2003 law,
has likely contributed to an increase in efficiency.

Analysis of the component Attention to Crisis

A rigorous impact evaluation was undertaking to measure the impact of the component on
welfare. The data collection for the impact evaluation was undertaken shortly after the
intervention, and hence the results presented below represent the short-term impacts.
Additional data will be collected a year after completion of the program to try and assess the
sustainability of these gains, including the extent to which behavior changes can be sustained
after the program. The analysis to-date shows that the program has had impacts on nutrition,
health, and education outcomes; enhanced asset creation and diverse income generating
choices in non-farm and livestock activities; increased empowerment and aspiration gains; and




                                                  47

strengthened community interactions and dynamics.32

Beneficiary households reported improvements in the quality and quantity of food
consumption and diet. For example, the program has allowed mothers to prepare 3 meals per
day (instead of 1 or 2 for control households). Other positive impacts are reports that children
are performing better in school and pre-school because of improved nutrition. In terms of
preventive care, beneficiary children are more likely to receive nutritional supplements and get
frequent health controls than those from control households.

The program increased school enrollment and attendance rates of children between the ages of
6 to 15 years. This is particularly remarkable given that attendance rates were already
relatively high before the start of the program. Impacts were especially large for children
between 11 and 15 years old, for whom enrollment and attendance increased by more than
20%. A number of behavioral indicators confirm a positive change in the attitudes towards
education. In terms of performance, children in the program reported receiving better grades
than non-recipients.




32This section presents extracts from "Asset Creation, Productive Safety Nets and Poverty Reduction:
Learning from the Crisis Program in Nicaragua's Drought Region, by Ximena Del Carpio, Karen Macours
and Renos Vakis.




                                                    48

Table 9: Impacts of Attention to Crisis on Health and Education Outcomes.
                                                      Control           All 3              %
                                                                        Treatments         Difference

Children 0-7 years old

Had a health control                                          75%               81%                  8%

Received vitamin A last 6 months                              70%               79%                 13%

Received anti-parasite supplement last 6
months                                                        65%               73%                 13%

Received iron supplement last 6 months                        58%               71%                 23%

Children in primary school age

 # of days missed school                                      1.33              0.72               -46%

 missed school because of work                                 4%                2%                -58%

 received better grades in this year                          56%               71%                 26%

 happier to go to school than last year                       58%               77%                 33%

Parents of children under the age of 8

Household members read to children under 8                     8%               17%                104%

Household members tell stories or sing to                     50%               63%                 25%
children less than 8 years

Number of children's book in house                            0.12              0.26               112%

Has paper and drawing supplies for children                   72%               81%                 13%
Note: All variables are significantly different between the two groups at the 99% level of significance.
Due to randomized assignment, control and treatment groups had similar pre-program outcomes and
characteristics"




                                                     49

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
(a) Task Team members
         Names                   Title                    Unit              Responsibility/Specialty
Andrea Vermehren        Social Protection Specialist   LCSHS              Task Manager
Bénédicte de la Brière  Social Protection Specialist   LCSHS              Task Manager
Aline Coudouel         Senior Economist                LCSHS              Social Protection
Jeanine Braithwaite     Senior Economist               HDNSP              Social Protection
Cidalia Brocca         Finance Analyst                 LOADM              Disbursements
Tatiana De Abreu       Finance Assistant               LOADM              Disbursements
Lorena Cohen           Junior Professional Associate   LCSHD              Operations Analyst
Mary Lou Veizaga        Procurement Specialist         LCSPT              Procurement
Irani G. Escolano       Procurement Specialist         LCCNI              Procurement
Michael Fowler         Senior Disbursement Officer     LOAG3              Disbursements
Lerick Kebeck          Staff Assistant                 LCSHD              Assistant
Coleen Littlejohn       Sr. Country Operations Officer LCCNI              Portfolio Operations
Karla McEvoy            Operations Analyst              LCSHS             Environment
Martín Ochoa           Water and Sanitation            LCSFP              Water and Sanitation Specialist
Livio Pino             Sr.Financial Mgmt.Specialist    LCOAA              Financial Management
Laura Rawlings          Senior Social Sector Specialist LCSHS             Monitoring and Evaluation
Ada Rivera             Program Assistant               LCSHS              Assistant
Enrique Roman          Financial Management            LCCNI              Financial Management
Jaime Roman             Lead Procurement Advisor       LCOPR              Procurement
Marinageles Sabella    Legal counselor                 LEGOP              Legal
Renos Vakis            Economist                       HDNSP              Crisis Response Management
Manuel Vargas          Financial Mmgt. Specialist      LCOAA              Financial Management
Gustavo Arcía          Consultant                      Risk Analysis
Ema Budinich           Consultant                      Safety Net Programs
Catherine Cardona      Consultant                      Institutional Development
Ximena del Carpio      Consultant                      Social Protection
Tarsicio Castañeda      Consultant                      Social Protection
Nancy Gillespie         Consultant                      Social Policy
Marcelo Osorio          Consultant                     Procurement
Ma. De los Angeles Ponce Consultant                    Management Information Systems
Rene Rodríguez         Consultant                      Community Development
Gloria Rubio           Consultant                      Evaluation Specialist
Cesar Salgado           Consultant                     Operational Manual
Rodrigo Serrano         Consultant                     Decentralization
Willem Struben         Consultant                      Institutional Support
Ximena Traa ­Valarezo  Consultant                      Social Assessment, Indigenous People
Maria Claudia Vazquez   Consultant                      Environment
Julie Van Domelen       Consultant                     Local Development Specialist
Osmar Velasco          Consultant                      Municipal Development, Micro Planning
Luis Zerón             Consultant                      Financial Management




                                             50

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                   4                       40.13
  FY01                                 26                        91.27
  FY02                                   1                        2.02
  FY03                                                            0.00
  FY04                                                            0.00
  FY05                                                            0.00
  FY06                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                            0.00
                        Total:         31                       133.42
Supervision/ICR
  FY00                                                            0.00
  FY01                                                            1.44
  FY02                                 10                       105.06
  FY03                                 17                        93.91
  FY04                                 29                       115.61
  FY05                                 29                       140.94
  FY06                                 32                       116.09
  FY07                                 20                       106.06
                        Total:        137                       679.11




                                    51

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable




                                    52

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable




                                  53

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Comments from FISE

Managua, 11 de Septiembre de 2007.

El desempeño del Banco en la preparación del proyecto fue muy satisfactorio. Adicional al monto
del préstamo, el Proyecto se benefició del Fondo Japonés para el Desarrollo Social por un monto
de US 765,000, en el que el Banco actuó como administrador de dicho Fondo, lo que permitió
que el FISE experimentara nuevas modalidades y enfoques hacia un desarrollo social en
municipios y comunidades marginales del país. El personal del Banco participó en todos los
aspectos del Proyecto, inclusive en el Plan de Implementación y la selección de Indicares Clave
de Desempeño.

Para la sostenibilidad de las acciones del Proyecto, el Banco impulsó con el FISE el Fondo de
Mantenimiento Preventivo, Índice de Eficiencia, la definición y aplicación de los Indicadores de
Desempeño y el financiamiento del FMP y los gastos operativos del FISE como contrapartida del
gobierno, condición para los desembolsos.

El tema de Agua y Saneamiento Rural fue ampliamente apoyado por el Banco que junto con el
KfW fueron los principales promotores ante el Gobierno para que este tema fuese trasladado de
ENACAL al FISE. La contribución con asistencia técnica directa especializada fue evidente en el
2004 y luego en el 2006 con el financiamiento de todo el personal de Agua y Saneamiento Rural.

El personal del Banco también contribuyó sustancialmente a ayudar en el diseño de las
actividades de seguimiento y evaluación y apoyó directamente el Estudio de Evaluación de
Impacto en la que se explora el impacto del FISE en la reducción de la pobreza, el fomento del
capital humano y social a través de la infraestructura social.

El Banco fue el principal promotor y financiador del proceso de descentralización del ciclo de
proyectos, en la que evaluaciones puntuales sobre este tema arrojaron importantes y significativos
hallazgos en cuanto al desarrollo de capacidades locales por la intervención del FISE. La
descentralización se amplió de nueve (9) municipios en el 2000 a 153 (100%) en el 2006.
También promovió los Proyectos Guiados por las Comunidades (PGC) que son una forma más
profunda de descentralización en la medida en que los PGC sean producidos con la participación
de los gobiernos municipales. De esta forma, los PGC y el manejo descentralizado del ciclo de
proyectos son modalidades complementarias que se fortalecen mutuamente, creando sinergías
para el desarrollo local y el fortalecimiento de capacidades en los municipios.

El desempeño del Banco en cuanto a la supervisión también fue muy satisfactorio. Brindó una
amplia asistencia técnica al FISE en el cumplimiento de sus responsabilidades fiduciarias las
cuales fueron ampliamente auditadas con resultados favorables para el FISE. El Banco brindó
asesoría detallada y apoyo en (i) aspectos técnicos de las normas ambientales, (ii) integración del
género, (iii) el programa especial de desarrollo comunitario para los pueblos indígenas y
comunidades étnicas de la Costa Caribe y otros municipios aledaños, (iv) Planes de Inversión
Municipal, contribuyendo a la articulación de la demanda local de inversión pública con la oferta
nacional y el Plan de Inversión Pública, (v) auditoria social, (vi) herramientas que guiaron y
ordenaron en forma coherente y en correspondencia con las políticas nacionales el accionar
institucional, entre las que se encuentran: el Sistema de Información, Indicadores de desempeño,
Sistema de Monitoreo, Manuales de Procedimientos, el Reglamento Operativo y el Sistema del
Plan Operativo Anual.


                                                 54

La supervisión del Banco se vio facilitada por la continuidad del personal y por un equipo
especial experimentado, con el cual se coordinó estrechamente.

El desempeño global del Banco se califica como muy satisfactoria.

Comments from Minister of the Family

Managua, 06 de Septiembre de 2007.

Estimada Sra. Rivera:

Por este medio le informo, que en su momento se envió contestación, pero lamentablemente
hemos tenido problemas con el e-mail.

El Ministerio de la Familia, Adolescencia y Niñez, procedió a revisar el documento ICR, al
respecto le informo que este Ministerio no tiene ningún comentarios al mismo.

Cabe destacar, que el trabajo del equipo del Banco Mundial ha sido excelente. Contribuyó
grandemente a que se concluyera con éxito la ejecución del Componente Atención a Crisis.

Por otra parte, con ellos hemos compartido ideas sobre temas de mucha importancia para la
reformulación y el seguimiento al programa Red de Protección Social Fase III.

Sin otro particular, a que referirme, aprovecho la ocasión para enviarle las muestras de mi
consideración y estima.

Rosa Adilia Vizcaya Briones.
Ministra




                                                 55

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                    56

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Bank preparation documents

Nicaragua Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board April 4, 1998 (IDA Report
98-32).

Identification Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World
Bank. June 20, 2000.

Pre-appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The
World Bank. October 23, 2000.

Appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World
Bank. February 8, 2001.

Project Concept Document (PCN), The World Bank, October 23, 2000.

Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Report No 21746-NI. The World Bank, March 23, 2001.

Agreed Minutes of Negotiations. The World Bank. March 14, 2001.

Quality Entry Assessment Report. The World Bank, June 6, 2001.

Bank project implementation documents

Development Credit Agreement 3504-NI. The World Bank. Conformed copy June 6, 2001

Grant Agreement TF026597. Japan Social Development Fund Capacity Building Grant for the
Community Development Innovation Fund. The World Bank. April 3, 2002.

Grant Agreement TF025845. Japanese Grant for Community Development. The World Bank.
August 23, 1999.

Statement of Mission Objectives, Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Management Letters,
Project Status Reports (PSRs) and Implementation Status and Results (ISRs) of all the
Supervision Missions recorded in Annex 6 of this ICR and in the Project's electronic files The
World Bank. From December 10, 2001 to March 16, 2007.

Bank and Borrower other project implementation-related documents

Aportes para la Elaboración del ICR del Proyecto 3504-NI: Reducción de la Pobreza y
Desarrollo Local. FISE de Nicaragua. René Rodríguez, August 8, 2006.

Asset Creation, Productive Safety Nets and Poverty Reduction: Learning from the Crisis
Program in nicaragua's Drought Region. A short Policy Note. X. del Carpio (The World Bank),
Karen Macours (John Hopkins University) and Renos Vakis (The World Bank). March 2007.

A Strengthened Poverty Reduction Strategy. Government of Nicaragua, August 2000. Strategy
discussed by the World Bank Group (Bank) Board on December 22, 2000.

Componente de Atención a Crisis. Informe de Actividades 2006. Ministerio de la Familia,
Gobierno de Nicaragua.

Evaluación conjunta del proceso de micro-planeación participativa FISE ­ PROTIERRA ­
INIFOM. The World Bank and Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW). November 9, 1999.

Evaluación de Impacto Ex Post de los Proyectos del Fondo de Inversión Social de Emergencia.
Cabal, S.A. Managua, Nicaragua. June 2007.

Informe Final de Descentralización. Reporte de Resultados de la Encuesta de Hogares y de la
Encuesta Comunitaria FISE 2004. Evaluación de Impacto Ex-Post de los sub-Proyectos del


                                              57

Fondo de Inversión Social de Emergencia/FISE. CABAL S.A. Managua, Nicaragua, August
2005

Informe Final de Descentralización. Evaluación de Impacto Ex-Post de los sub-Proyectos del
Fondo de Inversión Social de Emergencia/FISE. CABAL S.A. Managua, Nicaragua, September
2005

Informes preliminares sobre la evaluación de impacto ex ­ post de los sub-proyectos del Fondo
de Inversion Social de Emergencia FISE. CABAL S.A. Managua, Nicaragua, April 2006.

Exploring Partnerships between Communities and Local Government in Community Driven
Development: A Framewok. Report No. 32709-GLB. Environmentally and Socially Sustainable
Development Network. Social Development Department. Community Driven Development Team.
The World Bank. June 29, 2005.

FIDES. Evaluación del Fondo de Innovación para el Desarrollo Social (FIDES). Claudia
Trentmann, Berlin. FISE. September 2004

Fondo de Inversión Social de Emergencia. Unidos con las Municipalidades en el Combate a la
Pobreza. Informe de Gestión FISE 2002-2006. FISE. Government of Nicaragua. April 2007.

Implementation Completion Report for the Nicaragua Social Investment Fund Project - FISE I
(IDA Credit 2434-NI). . Report No 16428-NI. The World Bank. March 28, 1997.

Implementation Completion Report for the Nicaragua Second Social Investment Fund Project -
FISE II (IDA Credit 2767-NI). Report No 18657-NI. The World Bank. December 3, 1998.

Implementation Completion Report for the Nicaragua Third Social Investment Fund Project -
FISE III (IDA Credit 3142-NI). Report No 27375. The World Bank. June 15, 2004.

Informe Final. Background Material for the ICR of Credit 3504-NI. FISE Nicaragua by Marvin
Ortega. February 2007

Nicaragua: Expanding the Opportunity Space for Local Partnerships through Community Driven
Development. Rodrigo Serrano, HDNSP, The World Bank, June 2005.

Nicaragua: Ex- post Impact Evaluation of the Emergency Social Investment Fund (FISE). Report
No. 20400-NI. The World Bank. December 7, 2000.

Nicaragua: Multiple Social Investment Program (NI-L1008). Loan Proposal PR-2977. The Inter-
American Development Bank. October 11, 2005.

Nicaragua Poverty Assessment. 2007

Programa Red de Protección Social. Fase III. Fátima Echegoyén Guillen. Ministerio de la
Familia. Gobierno de la República de Nicaragua. October 2006

Sistematización de la Experiencia Demostrativa del Sistema de Solidaridad para el Desarrollo:
Estrategia Operativa de la Política Nacional de Protección Social by Celso Luis Asensio Florez.
November 2006.




                                              58

