Page  1
ASSIGNMENT AND CONSENT DEED
RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 4061 KZ
ASSIGNMENT AND CONSENT DEED
(Uzen Oil Field Rehabilitation Project)
among
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CLOSED JOINT STOCK COMPANY “NATIONAL OIL AND GAS COMPANY ‘KAZAKHOIL’”
Dated July 16, 1999
ASSIGNMENT AND CONSENT DEED
RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 4061 KZ
ASSIGNMENT AND CONSENT DEED
THIS ASSIGNMENT AND CONSENT DEED is made on this 16th day of July, 1999, among 
the Republic of Kazakhstan (ROK), the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank), and the Closed Joint Stock Company “National Oil and Gas 
Company ‘Kazakhoil’” (Kazakhoil).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank had agreed, pursuant to a Loan Agreement, dated July 18, 
1996, between ROK and the Bank, as amended (Loan Agreement), to make available to ROK 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred nine million Dollars 
($109,000,000) (the Loan) to ROK upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement on condition that Uzenmunaigas (UMG) agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in a Project Agreement, of the same date, between the 
Bank and UMG (Project Agreement); 
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement, dated December 11, 1996, entered into 
between ROK  and UMG (the Subsidiary Loan Agreement), the proceeds of the Loan 
provided for under the Loan Agreement have been relent to UMG on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(C)
ROK has, pursuant to a Presidential Decree dated 4 March 1997 and 
Resolution No. 410 of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24 March 
1997, established Kazakhoil in the form of a closed joint stock company to, inter 
alia, undertake hydrocarbon exploration, development, production and processing, and 
Page  2
transferred its shares in the production sharing, royalty and other agreements on 
hydrocarbon exploration, development, production and processing, including its share 
in the Caspian Pipeline Consortium, its shares in the economic partnerships and joint 
ventures and the State shares in production and processing joint stock companies; 
(D)
ROK has, as a matter of policy, decided to undertake all oil and gas 
projects through Kazakhoil and, therefore, intends to assign its rights and 
obligations under the Loan Agreement to Kazakhoil;
(E)
ROK has agreed to guarantee the obligations of Kazakhoil as the assignee 
under the Loan Agreement as provided in a separate guarantee agreement entered or to 
be entered into by ROK and the Bank; and
(F)
Kazakhoil is, in consideration of the said guarantee by ROK and the 
consent to the assignment by the Bank, agreeable to the said assignment in its favor 
by ROK and is willing to accept and undertake the rights and obligations under the 
Loan Agreement upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Assignments and Guarantee by ROK
Section 1.01.  Subject to Kazakhoil agreeing to certain amendments in the Loan 
Agreement, ROK hereby assigns and transfers all its rights and obligations under the 
Loan Agreement to Kazakhoil and authorizes Kazakhoil to exercise and perform all the 
said rights and obligations in place of ROK.
Section 1.02.  Subject to Kazakhoil accepting and agreeing to the assignment and 
amendments in the Loan Agreement as aforesaid, ROK hereby assigns and transfers all 
its rights and obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to Kazakhoil and 
authorizes Kazakhoil to exercise and perform all the said rights and obligations in 
place of ROK.
Section 1.03.  In consideration of the Bank giving its consent to the said 
assignments, ROK (the Guarantor) hereby agrees to execute and deliver a guarantee 
agreement (Guarantee Agreement), in favor of the Bank in the form attached herewith as 
Annex I.
ARTICLE II
Acceptance and Agreement by Kazakhoil 
Section 2.01.  Kazakhoil hereby accepts the assignment, transfer and authority 
granted to it by ROK, and agrees to the amendments in the Loan Agreement pursuant to 
Section 1.01 hereof. Kazakhoil is consequently substituted for ROK as the borrower 
under the Loan Agreement and the Loan Agreement is accordingly modified as per the 
Amended and Restated Loan Agreement (Amended and Restated Loan Agreement), attached 
herewith as Annex II. Kazakhoil hereby agrees with and confirms that it is fully bound 
by the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02.  Kazakhoil hereby also accepts the assignment, transfer and 
authority granted to it by ROK pursuant to Section 1.02 hereof. Kazakhoil is 
consequently substituted for ROK as the lender under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement is accordingly modified. Kazakhoil hereby agrees with 
and confirms that it is fully bound by the modified Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. Kazakhoil hereby represents, and ROK hereby confirms, that 
Kazakhoil’s founding documents are duly registered in accordance with the applicable 
law and procedure and that Kazakhoil is empowered and authorized thereunder to assume 
the rights and obligations of ROK under the Loan Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Consent by the Bank 
Page  3
Section 3.01.  Subject to Kazakhoil being bound fully by the Amended and 
Restated Loan Agreement and the modified Subsidiary Loan Agreement and without 
prejudice to any of its rights under the Guarantee Agreement, the Bank hereby consents 
to the foregoing assignments, transfers and authorizations and accepts the consequent 
substitution of Kazakhoil in place of ROK as stipulated in Section 2.01 and Section 
2.02 hereof. The Bank also concurs with the amendments specified in the Amended and 
Restated Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination; Annexes; and Addresses
Section 4.01.  The following events are specified as conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement:
an opinion or opinions, satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel acceptable to the Bank on 
behalf of ROK and Kazakhoil, that the assignment  has been duly authorized, and that 
this Assignment and Consent Deed has been duly executed and delivered on behalf of ROK 
and Kazakhoil and is legally binding upon them in accordance with its terms;
Evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the Guarantee Agreement has been executed and 
delivered on behalf of ROK; and
an opinion, satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel acceptable to the Bank on behalf of 
the Guarantor, that the Guarantee Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Guarantor and is legally binding upon the 
Guarantor in accordance with its terms.
It is clearly understood and agreed by the parties hereto that the Loan Agreement and 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the rights and obligations of the parties thereto 
thereunder shall remain unaffected and the assignments, transfers, authorizations, 
amendments, modifications, and consent hereunder shall not take effect until the Bank 
has sent notification to ROK and Kazakhoil declaring that the conditions specified 
above have been fulfilled.
Section 4.02.  Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, this Agreement shall 
terminate upon its failure to become effective within ninety (90) days of the date 
hereof.
Section 4.03.  Annex I and Annex II hereof are an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 4.04.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of notices 
and requests under this Agreement:
For ROK:
Ministry of Finance
11, Beibitshilik Street
Astana, 473000
Republic of Kazakhstan
Telex:
251 245 FILIN
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  4
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Kazakhoil:
60, Republic Avenue
Astana, 473000
Republic of Kazakhstan
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
By /s/ Bolat Nurgaliyev
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Judy O’Connor
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia 
 CLOSED JOINT STOCK COMPANY
“NATIONAL OIL AND GAS COMPANY
 ‘KAZAKHOIL’”
By /s/ Bolat Nurgaliyev
Authorized Representative
