Page  1
ANNEX I
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 4061 KZ
Guarantee Agreement
(Uzen Oil Field Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 16, 1999 
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT RELATED
TO LOAN NUMBER 4061 KZ
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 16, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN (the Guarantor) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A)
by an Assignment and Consent Deed of even date herewith among the 
Guarantor, the Bank and Closed Joint Stock Company “National Oil and Gas Company 
“Kazakhoil”” (the Borrower) (the Assignment and Consent Deed), the Guarantor has 
assigned its rights and obligations under the Loan Agreement and the Borrower has 
accepted the said assignment and agreed to be bound by the Amended and Restated Loan 
Agreement attached to the Assignment and Consent Deed;
(B)
Bank has agreed to the said assignment on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Assignment and Consent Deed, but only on condition that the Guarantor 
agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan as provided 
in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the 
Assignment and Consent Deed with the Guarantor and the Borrower, has agreed so to 
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements” of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)  
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
“(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement, the Preamble to and 
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement, and the Assignment and Consent Deed have the 
respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not 
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and 
other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, 
and the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set 
forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be 
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the 
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the 
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet 
such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01.  The Guarantor shall take all measures (including, without 
limitation, the granting of licenses and issuance of approvals) required to enable the 
Borrower to carry out the Project and to comply with its other obligations under the 
Loan Agreement.  The Guarantor shall refrain from taking any measures which could have 
a materially adverse affect on the creditworthiness of the Borrower.
Section 3.02.  The Guarantor shall permit the Borrower to market crude oil as 
deemed commercially appropriate by the Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
Page  3
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as 
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
11, Beibitshilik Street
Astana, 473000
Republic of Kazakhstan
Telex:
251 245 FILIN
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
By /s/ Bolat Nurgaliyev 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Judy O’Connor 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
