Page  1
ANNEX II 
LOAN NUMBER 4061 KZ
Amended and Restated
Loan Agreement
(Uzen Oil Field Rehabilitation Project)
between
CLOSED JOINT STOCK COMPANY “NATIONAL OIL AND GAS COMPANY ‘KAZAKHOIL’”
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated  July 18, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4061 KZ
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  July 18, 1996, between CLOSED JOINT STOCK COMPANY “NATIONAL 
OIL AND GAS COMPANY “KAZAKHOIL” (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by Uzenmunaigas (UMG) with the Borrower’s 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to UMG 
the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and UMG;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements” of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)  
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) 
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a 
decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read: 
“(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 
of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)  
“Block 3A” means the area demarcated as Block 3A in the Uzen Oil Field.
(b) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Uzenmunaigas 
(UMG) of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(c)  
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to a Letter Agreement dated November 8, 
1995 between the Borrower and the Bank.
(d)  
“Short-term Working Capital Financing Plan” means the short-term working 
capital financing plan for UMG, dated May 31, 1996, as said plan may be amended from 
time to time with the concurrence of the Bank.
(e)  
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(f)  
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and UMG pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and the term “Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided 
thereunder.
(g)
“Technical and Management Know-How Services” means services for the 
transfer of technical and management know-how and includes other consulting services.
(h) 
“Technical Services” means the wells testing, logging, perforating and 
wells recompletion services, and rigs workover services to be provided under Parts B.1 
and B.2 of the Project.
(i)  
“UMG” or “Uzenmunaigas” means Uzenmunaigas, a legal entity established 
and existing under the laws of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors 
thereto acceptable to the Bank.
(j)  
“Privatization Implementation Plan” means the Borrower’s plan for 
privatization of UMG, referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement, as said plan may 
be amended from time to time with the concurrence of the Bank.
(k)  
“Uzen Oil Field” means the Borrower’s Uzen Oil Field delineated as such 
under the  Borrower’s License Number 254 dated September 5, 1995.
Page  3
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred nine million 
Dollars ($109,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three\1efourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b) 
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c) 
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period 
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)
“Cost of Qualified Borrowings” means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, 
of the outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 
30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as 
the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of this 
Section.
(iii)
“Semester” means the first six months or the second six months of 
Page  4
a calendar 
year.
(d) 
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six (6) months’ 
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be 
amended to read as follows:
“(a)   The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period.”
“(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter.”
“(c) 
(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year.”
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause UMG to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement 
all the obligations of UMG therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all 
actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable UMG to perform such obligations, and shall not take 
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b) 
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to UMG under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and UMG, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank including the following: 
(i) 
the term of the Subsidiary Loan shall be twelve (12) years, 
including a four 
(4) year grace period; 
(ii) 
the Borrower shall charge a commitment fee at a rate equal to the 
rate of 
commitment charge payable under Section 2.04 
of this Agreement; 
(iii)  the Borrower shall charge interest on the principal amount of the 
Subsidiary 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a 
rate 200 basis points 
(2%) above the rate payable by the 
Borrower under Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement; and 
(iv) 
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be the 
equivalent in Dollars 
(determined as of the date or respective 
dates of repayment) of the value of 
currency or currencies 
withdrawn from the Loan Account on account of 
expenditures 
for the Project.
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
Page  5
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works (including Technical Services), and consultants' services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by UMG 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, jointly with UMG, implement the Short-term 
Working Capital Financing Plan, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (a) 
prepare a Privatization Implementation Plan based on terms of reference agreed with 
the Bank; and (b) implement the said plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that  UMG 
crude oil is marketed in a commercially appropriate manner.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures 
are retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including 
a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
Page  6
(b)
Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of its 
financial statements for 
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Borrower shall not 
incur any debt, unless the net revenues of Borrower for the audit fiscal year 
immediately preceding, the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve\1emonth period 
ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at 
least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of Borrower for any 
succeeding fiscal year on all debt of Borrower, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness the Borrower including its 
consolidated subsidiaries.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into.
(iii)
The term “net revenues” means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to 
take account of the Borrower's including its 
consolidated subsidiaries rates 
in effect at the time of the 
incurrence of debt even though they were not in 
effect during 
the twelve-month period to which such revenues relate and net 
non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non\1ecash operating charges 
and 
interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges 
on, debt.
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
Page  7
to value, 
in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt 
payable  in another currency, 
such valuation shall be made on 
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of 
exchange at 
which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, 
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such 
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a) 
UMG shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that UMG will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) 
The Charter of UMG, dated November 25, 1994, or any other organizational 
document in its place, agreed to by the Bank, shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
UMG to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of UMG or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a) 
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; 
(b) 
any event specified in paragraph (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and UMG;
(b)
the Privatization Implementation Plan has been prepared pursuant to 
Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and
(c)
consultants have been engaged by UMG, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, to provide technical and management support to UMG for the 
implementation of the Project and the management of operations in the Uzen Oil Field.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or approved by UMG, 
and is legally binding upon UMG in accordance with its terms; and
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and UMG and is legally binding upon the Borrower and UMG in accordance 
Page  8
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
60, Republic Avenue
Astana, 473000
Republic of Kazakstan
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
CLOSED JOINT STOCK COMPANY
“NATIONAL OIL AND GAS COMPANY ‘KAZAKHOIL’”
By /s/ Bolat Nurgaliyev
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
Page  9
(Expressed in
Expenditures
   Dollar
   to be
Category
 Equivalent)
  Financed
(1)
Goods 
  20,000,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
100% of local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for 
other items 
procured locally 
(2)
Works/surface  
  23,000,000  
82% 
facilities under
Part A.2 of
the Project
(3)
Technical Services
  39,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures
(4)
Technical and Management 
  17,500,000  
100%
Know-How Services
(5)
Training
 
   2,400,000
100%
(6)
Refunding of
   1,500,000
Amounts due
Project
pursuant to
Preparation
Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
   5,600,000
  __________
TOTAL
 109,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures (a) prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) under Category 5, until the training strategy has been developed 
and adopted by UMG pursuant to paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent, and (b) services under contracts, in case of 
firms, costing less than $100,000 equivalent and, in case of individuals, costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: 
(i) 
reduce the rate of decline in production of the Uzen Oil Field and 
generate resources for reinvestment therefor; 
Page  10
(ii) 
promote the reorganization of Uzenmunaigas into viable corporate units 
and its/their privatization; 
(iii)  assess the impact of past operating practices on the present condition of 
the reservoirs, wells and the environment of the field; 
(iv) 
contribute to the remediation of past environmental damage to the field 
and strengthen environmental monitoring and management; and 
(v) 
train Uzenmunaigas’ staff in modern oil field operating practices and 
strengthen its capacity to manage the implementation of the rehabilitation program and 
oil field operations. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Physical Investments
1.
Subsurface Rehabilitation
(a)
Provision of equipment and spare parts for the workover of about 400 
producer wells and about 100 injector wells.
(b)
Provision of chemicals for workovers and oil production.
2.
Surface Facilities Rehabilitation
(a)
Replacement of about 340 flowlines of total estimated length of about 205 
kilometers (km) (about 135 km of 3 inch diameter and about 70 km of 4 inch diameter) 
between production wells and gathering stations.
(b)
Relocation of satellite and integration of the existing gathering 
stations into about 8 stations with test and group separators and associated flow 
measuring and control equipment.
(c)
Replacement of oil/water transfer lines between gathering stations and 
the existing central processing plant and installation of new produced water transfer 
lines from the new gathering stations to the water injection station in Block 3A.
(d)
Modification of the existing central oil processing plant to establish a 
dedicated process train for crude oil produced from Block 3A.
(e)
Installation of a complete water treatment system at the water injection 
pump station in Block 3A.
(f)
Replacement of the existing water injection pumps, high pressure water 
injection lines between the water pump station and injection wells with associated 
flow measurement and control equipment.
3.
Environmental Protection and Remediation
Provision of environmental monitoring and laboratory testing equipment; clean-up 
and pilot re-vegetation of selected areas; and preparation of baseline data on the 
Uzen Oil Field’s environmental condition.
Part B:
Physical Investment Implementation Support
1.
Provision of wells testing, logging, perforating and wells recompletion 
services.
2.
Provision of rigs workover services to implement a workover program for about 
400 wells.
3.
Provision of Technical and Management Know-How Services for project planning and 
management, engineering design and construction and workover supervision; reservoir 
and production management; and training for Uzenmunaigas staff.
Page  11
Part C:
Organizational Development
1.
Strengthening of Uzenmunaigas’ management by improving its financial and 
operating information systems through provision of Technical and Management Know-How 
Services and equipment.
2.
Improvement of Uzenmunaigas’ financial management and accounting practices and 
systems through provision of Technical and Management Know-How Services and equipment.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due 
(expressed in Dollars)*
November 15, 2001
4,540,000
May 15, 2002
4,540,000
November 15, 2002
4,540,000
May 15, 2003
4,540,000
November 15, 2003
4,540,000
May 15, 2004
4,540,000
November 15, 2004
4,540,000
May 15, 2005
4,540,000
November 15, 2005
4,540,000
May 15, 2006
4,540,000
November 15, 2006
4,540,000
May 15, 2007
4,540,000
November 15, 2007
4,540,000
May 15, 2008
4,540,000
November 15, 2008
4,540,000
May 15, 2009
4,540,000
November 15, 2009
4,540,000
May 15, 2010
4,540,000
November 15, 2010
4,540,000
May 15, 2011
4,540,000
November 15, 2011
4,540,000
May 15, 2012
4,540,000
November 15, 2012
4,540,000
May 15, 2013
4,580,000
_____________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate
(expressed as a
percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on
the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Page  12
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.  
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  
the term “Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; for the 
avoidance of doubt, it is clarified that the term “eligible” categories will be deemed 
to include the categories specified above only if and to the extent the conditions of 
disbursements, if any, in respect thereof provided in paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement has been fulfilled;
(b) 
the term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $600,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$100,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $3,000,000.
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures  in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
Page  13
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures .
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures , the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
Page  14
the General Conditions.
