Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4061 KZ
 
Amended Guarantee Agreement 
 
(Uzen Oil Field Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 20, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4061 KZ 
 
AMENDED GUARANTEE AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN (the Guarantor) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by an Assignment and Consent Deed dated July 16, 1999 among the Guarantor, 
the Bank and Closed Joint Stock Company 
“National Oil and Gas Company ‘Kazakhoil’” (Kazakhoil) 
(the Assignment and Consent Deed), the Guarantor has assigned its rights and obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the Kazakhoil has accepted the said assignment and agreed to be bound by the Loan 
Agreement attached to the Assignment and Consent Deed; 
 
(B) 
Bank has agreed to the said assignment on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Assignment and Consent Deed, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the 
obligations of Kazakhoil in respect of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; 
 
(C) 
by Presidential Decree No. 811 and the Resolution No. 248 of the Guarantor, Closed 
Joint Stock Company “National Company “KazMunayGas” (the Borrower) was created and assumed 
Kazakhoil’s assets, liabilities and subsidiaries; 
 
(D) 
by a loan assumption agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower (the Loan Assumption Agreement), the Borrower has agreed to assume the Loan in the amount 
of $109,000,000 equivalent, of which the principal amount of about $66,422,611.42 equivalent was 
disbursed and outstanding as of October 27, 2002; 
 
(E) 
the Loan Assumption Agreement between the Bank and the Borrower of even date 
herewith, supersedes the Loan Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Guarantor, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Assumption Agreement of even date herewith, has agreed to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations, 
all as provided in this Amended Guarantee Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Amendments to the Guarantee Agreement 
 
1. 
Section 1.01 of the Guarantee Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows: 
 
"Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements" 
of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the 
Loan Assumption Agreements (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement." 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2. 
Section 1.02 of the Guarantee Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows: 
 
"Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Assumption Agreements have the 
respective meanings therein set forth." 
 
3. 
Section 2.01 of the Guarantee Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows: 
 
Guarantee; Provision of Funds 
 
"Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the Projects as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Assumption Agreements and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Amended Guarantee 
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not 
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and other 
charges on, the Loans, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loans, and the 
punctual performance of all other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan 
Assumption Agreement." 
 
4. 
Section 2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows: 
 
"Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this 
Amended Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor shall, whenever there is reasonable cause 
to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to meet the 
estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the Project for which the 
Borrower is responsible, make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to 
provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower, as the case may be, to be provided with 
such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures." 
 
5. 
Section 3.01 of the Guarantee Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall take all measures (including, without limitation, the 
granting of licenses and issuance of approvals) required to enable the Borrower to carry 
out the Project and to comply with its other obligations under the Loan Assumption 
Agreement.  The Guarantor shall refrain from taking any measures which could have a 
materially adverse affect on the creditworthiness of the Borrower.” 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Effective Date 
 
Section 2.01. (a) This Amended Guarantee Agreement shall become effective on the date upon 
which the Bank dispatches to the Guarantor notice of its acceptance of evidence that: (i) the execution and 
delivery of this Amended Guarantee Agreement on behalf of the Guarantor have been authorized or 
ratified by all necessary governmental action; and (ii) all conditions precedent to the Loan Assumption 
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Amended Guarantee 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As part of such evidence, there shall be furnished to the Bank an opinion satisfactory to 
the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank showing, on behalf of the Guarantor, that this Amended 
Page  4
-
3
-
Guarantee Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified and executed and delivered on behalf of the 
Guarantor and is legally binding upon the Guarantor in accordance with its terms. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses 
 
Section 3.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as the representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 3.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions: 
 
For the Guarantor: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
33
Pobeda Avenue 
 
Astana 473000 
 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
251
245
FILIN  3172 11 71 66 
 
 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
   Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI), or 
(202) 477 6391  
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Astana, Republic of 
Kazakhstan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
By: /s/ Zeinolla Kakimzhanov  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Roman Solodchenko  
Authorized Representative 
 
