                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No:ICR000014




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                ( IBRD-40610 )

                                    ON A

                          LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF
                              US$ 109 MILLION

                                      TO

                             NATIONAL COMPANY

                             KAZMUNAYGAS JSC

                          WITH THE GUARANTEE OF

                       THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

                                   FOR THE

                 UZEN OIL FIELD REHABILITATION PROJECT


                                 June 29, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe And Central Asia Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                           ( Exchange Rate Effective 01/11/2007 )
                                Currency Unit = Tenge
                                  Tenge 1.00 = US$130
                                    US$ 1.00 = Tenge .0076


                                       Fiscal Year
                                  January 1-December 31



                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

EOR      Enhanced Oil Recovery
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FRR      Financial Rate of Return
IPO      Initial Public Offering
KMG      Closed Joint Stock Company "National Company `Kazmunaygas'
KMG E&PClosed Joint Stock Company Kazmunaygas Exploration and Production
Kazakhoil Closed Joint Stock Company "National Company `Kazakhoil'
M.O.E.   Ministry of Energy
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
Tenge    Currency Unit of the Republic of Kazakhstan
UMG      Uzenmunaygas
VAT      Value Added Tax




         Vice President: Shigeo Katsu

       Country Director: Annette Dixon

        Sector Manager: Charles M. Feinstein

   Project Team Leader: Istvan Dobozi
      ICR Team Leader: James Moose

                                       Kazakhstan
                         Uzen Oil Field Rehabilitation Project




                                       CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 5
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 10
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 11
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 12
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing......................................................................... 14
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 15
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 16
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........... 18
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 20
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 20
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 21
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 22
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 25
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 26
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Uzen Oil Field
Country:                Kazakhstan            Project Name:
                                                                    Rehabilitation Project
Project ID:             P008507               L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-40610
ICR Date:               06/29/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    KAZAKHSTAN
Original Total
                        USD 109.0M            Disbursed Amount:     USD 104.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
KMG E&P
UMG
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/03/1993    Effectiveness:       01/16/1997         01/16/1997
                                                                             07/13/1999
Appraisal:             06/24/1995    Restructuring(s):
                                                                             05/20/2003
Approval:              07/02/1996    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:             12/31/2000         04/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Substantial
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                     Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           Yes                                        Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Oil and gas                                                      100               100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Pollution management and environmental health                    Primary          Primary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization            Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                       Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Annette Dixon                      Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:            Charles M. Feinstein               Jonathan C. Brown
Project Team Leader:       Istvan Dobozi                      Yusupha B. Crookes
ICR Team Leader:           James Sayle Moose
ICR Primary Author:        James Sayle Moose



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) reduce the rate of decline in production of the
Uzen Oil Field and generate resources for reinvestment therefor; (ii) promote the
reorganization of Uzenmunaigas into viable corporate units and its/their privatization;
(iii) assess the impact of past operating practices on the present condition of the
reservoirs, wells and the environment of the field; (iv) contribute to the remediation of
past environmental damage to the field and strengthen environmental monitoring and
management; and (v) train Uzenmunaigas' staff in modern oil field operating practices
and strengthen its capacity to manage the implementation of the rehabilitation program
and oil field operations.



                                                ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No changes

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval            Target         Completion or
                                               documents)           Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Oil production of the Uzen Field

Value                                      3.54 Million tons                    4.14 Million tons
quantitative or 2.78 Million tons per year per year ( 2000),                    (2000), 6.7 Million
Qualitative)                               2.94 Million tons
                                           (2006)                               tons(2006)

Date achieved 12/31/1996                   12/31/2000                           10/17/2006

Comments        The original target values are calculated based on the economic projections in the

(incl. %        SAR. The SAR projected production peaking in 2000 and then falling. Actual

achievement)    production exceeded forecast values and has continued to rise- a far superior
                result.
                Number of Oil Pits in the field. ( This is not a project objective but should have
Indicator 2 :   been and is related to objective 4). They have been reduced from 141 in 2001 to
                3 as of January 1, 2006.
Value
quantitative or 163                        163                                  1 (2006)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                   12/31/2004                           10/17/2006

Comments        The objective was to contribute to the remediation of the environmental damage

(incl. %        done to the field. However, there were no specific targets aside from

achievement)    development of indices. This project cleaned up the oil pits, except for one which
                has technical issues.
Indicator 3 :   Modified Net Cash flow from Operations
Value
quantitative or $13.4 Million                                                   $1488 Million
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1995                                                        12/31/2005
Comments        The measure used in the SAR is revenue-taxes-pipeline tariffs-payroll. The 2005
(incl. %        number is for KMG E&P but about 80% of this is UMG. The increase is due to
achievement)    higher production and much higher prices.
Indicator 4 :   Percent of company privatized
Value
quantitative or 0% (1996)                                                       40% (2006)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1996                                                        12/31/2006
Comments        An early attempt to privatize UMG was put on hold and then allowed to lapse.
(incl. %        Actual partial privatization occurred in 2006 for KMG E&P at what is highly
achievement)    likely a very much higher price.
Indicator 5 :   Assessments of Past Operating Practices Completed
Value           No (1996)                                                       Yes (2001)



                                                iii

quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1996                                                      12/31/2001

Comments        The main consultants did an assessment of the impact of past operating practices

(incl. %        and their impact on the field although their main thrust was to try to improve

achievement)    practices. An environmental consulting firm did an environmental assessment of
                the field.
Indicator 6 :   Production from Block 3A area
Value
quantitative or 298,000 (1996)              NA                                731,000 (2006)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1996                   12/31/2000                         12/31/2006

Comments        The project objective was to slow the production decline from the field.

(incl. %        However, this was supposed to be done by concentrating resources on Block 3A

achievement)    with successful techniques in block 3A then being adopted for use in the rest of
                the field.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of Employees Trained
Value
(quantitative   0                          NA                                 8979(2006)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1996                   12/31/2004                         10/17/2006
Comments
(incl. %        There were no specific targets for training although it was an objective.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                           IP               Disbursements
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     10/01/1996           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     05/05/1997           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.16
  3     06/10/1997           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.31
  4     12/09/1997           Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                     0.31
  5     06/30/1998          Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                     1.79
  6     02/08/1999          Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                     8.12
  7     05/17/1999          Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                     9.57
  8     09/27/1999           Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                     9.82
  9     11/24/1999          Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                    10.71
  10    02/10/2000          Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                    12.28



                                                 iv

11    05/11/2000        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 16.21
12    11/27/2000        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 21.24
13    02/01/2001        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 23.17
14    11/30/2001        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 48.49
15    05/30/2002        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 57.53
16    06/14/2002        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 57.70
17    12/17/2002        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 67.81
18    06/04/2003        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 71.42
19    12/22/2003        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 74.04
20    06/28/2004        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 75.74
21    12/13/2004        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 76.30
22    05/18/2005        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 78.00
23    12/12/2005        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 79.20
24    06/06/2006        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 80.21
25    04/30/2007        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 102.57



H. Restructuring (if any)

                          ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at   Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                 Restructuring
              PDO Change                                    Key Changes Made
                             DO     IP     in USD
                                           millions

  07/13/1999        N         U     U          9.60    Borrower changed from
                                                       Government To Kazakhoil

  05/20/2003        N         S     S        71.42     Borrower changed from
                                                       Kazakhoil to KMG




                                       v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

At the time of project appraisal in 1995, Kazakhstan had only recently emerged from the
Soviet Union and had been undergoing a sharp decline in GNP and oil production.
Output of the Uzen field had decreased from 7.3 Million tons in 1990 to 2.9 Million tons
in 1995 with the expectation that the field would continue to decline.( See first objective
below) The field is important to Kazakhstan and was for many years its main producing
field. In addition the city of Zhana Uzen, with a population of about 80,000, is entirely
dependent economically on the field. The Kazakh Government, which was very much
aware of this situation, asked the Bank to undertake a project to try to slow the decline in
the field, increase efficiency, improve the environment and help save the city

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The objectives of the Project are to:

        (i) reduce the rate of decline in production of the Uzen Oil Field and generate
        resources for reinvestment therefor;

        (ii) promote the reorganization of Uzenmunaigas into viable corporate units and
        its/their privatization;

        (iii) assess the impact of past operating practices on the present condition of the
        reservoirs, wells and the environment of the field;

        (iv) contribute to the remediation of past environmental damage to the field and
        strengthen environmental monitoring and management; and

        (v) train Uzenmunaigas' staff in modern oil field operating practices and
        strengthen its capacity to manage the implementation of the rehabilitation
        program and oil field operations.

This project was prepared in 1995-96 and the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) does not
include a results framework. Some indicators to assess the development objectives were e
provided in the text but there are usually only forecasts of these indicators for shorter
periods and often they not quantified or are no longer relevant because the underlying
structure has changed. Nevertheless, the objectives of the project are clear and indicate in
several cases what needs to be monitored. The main indicator is production from the field.
Increasing this was key to the economic viability of the field and therefore to the
project's impact on poverty reduction and economic development. A second related
indicator is profitability of the company. A third indicator, or at least one which was
adopted as a measure of environmental remediation, is the number of surface oil pits at
the field. A fourth indicator is the number of staff trained.


                                               1

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
No changes


1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

The main beneficiaries were expected to be Uzenumunaigas (UMG), the company that
operated the Uzen Field, the employees of this company and the city of Zhana Uzen. This
city is located in the desert east of Aktau, was created to house the workers in the oil field,
and depends economically almost entirely on Uzenmunaigas which exploits the adjacent
oil field. These were and are the main beneficiaries although UMG is now part of KMG
E&P (see below) which therefore is now also one of the main beneficiaries.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The Project consisted of the following components according to the text of the SAR:

A. Physical Investments
    1) Subsurface rehabilitation
    2) Surface facilities rehabilitation
    3) Environmental Protection and Remediation
B. Physical Investment Implementation Support
    1) Provision of wells testing, logging, perforating, and recompletion services
    2) Provision of rigs workover services to implement workover programs
    3) Provision of technical and management know how including training
C. Organizational Development
     1) Strengthening of UMG's management by improving its financial and operating
     information systems
     2) Improvement of UMG's financial management and accounting practices

1.6 Revised Components
There were no major revisions in the components. However, the importance of the
components changed over time as the project progressed, cost estimates improved,
understanding of the issues evolved, and as UMG made investments from its own funds
in some of these areas. In particular well work-overs, repairs on wells and improved well
exploitation technology became by far the largest component financed by the Bank while
less surface work was done than anticipated and much of this work was done by UMG
using their own funds.

Also two decisions were made to enhance the sustainability of the project. These were:

    · To procure units for training of UMG personnel using funds initially allocated for
         logging and testing engineering services.



                                              2

    · To procure missing spare parts to upgrade 6 western work-over rigs ( Cardwell
        200, Kremco 80) purchased by UMG with their own funds and to contract a
        company to train UMG staff in using these rigs in order to apply modern work-
        over techniques and practices.

Both of these decisions led to increased drilling and work-over capacity at UMG and less
use of outside consultants.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

This project underwent two major restructurings and one secondary restructuring.
The original loan (1996) was from the Bank to the Government of Kazakhstan which on-
lent the funds to Uzenmunaigas (UMG). There was a Project Agreement with UMG.
This arrangement turned out not to work well since the loan was included in the
Government's budgetary processes which are very rigid. (Basically budgets are prepared
a year in advance and it is very difficult to spend any funds, including from a Bank Loan,
if they are not in the budget.)

The loan was then restructured in 1999 so that it was a loan from the Bank to Kazakhoil,
the state oil company at the time, with a Guarantee from the Government. Kazakhoil on-
lent the funds to UMG. This restructuring delayed the project by 1-1.5 years.

In 2002 Kazakhoil was combined with the national oil and gas pipeline companies to
form Kazmunaygas (KMG). In 2003 the loan was therefore restructured as a loan from
the Bank to KMG with a guarantee from the Government and the funds still on lent to
UMG. In 2004 UMG was combined with a smaller producing unit also owned by KMG
called Embamunaygas and the combined entity was called KMG E&P. Therefore the
Project and Loan Agreement were amended to reflect the new beneficiary, KMG E&P,
rather than UMG.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

This was a very difficult project to prepare. Zhana Uzen is a long distance from the main
transportation hub and largest city, Almaty, and difficult to get to. Furthermore, when the
project was prepared, transport to and from Zhana Uzen was unreliable and information
about the condition of the field and the underlying financial condition of UMG was
limited and uncertain. The Bank made a large investment in project preparation ( airfares,
consultants and Bank Staff) and the normal procedures for that period (over 10 years ago)
seem to have been followed. There were few or no similar operations to draw lessons
from. An effort was made to reduce risks to the extent possible. Moreover, the
underlying approach used in the project of investing in the field and introducing new


                                                3

technology and procedures was correct in that it worked and produced better results than
anticipated.. However, some of the cost estimates were fairly far off such as the estimate
of the cost of surface facilities which was extremely low as pointed out in some detail by
KMG E&P in Annex 7. This in turn led to some reallocations of funds within the project.
Also the SAR seriously underestimated:1) the impact of the project on production from
the field since production is more than double the forecast and has continued at a high
level much longer than anticipated; 2) oil prices which are much higher than forecast
( although the forecasts in the SAR were similar to the consensus at the time).

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

As mentioned above, there were two major project restructurings and one minor
restructuring. Before the first restructuring the project was at risk due to lack of funds.
As a result of Kazakh budgetary procedures it turned out to be very difficult to spend
counterpart funds or loan funds. As a result the project was delayed by about 1-1.5 years
and disbursements were very limited. Following the restructuring the project was
upgraded to satisfactory status which it has maintained for the life of the project. The
second restructuring resulted in a modest delay to the project while the borrower was
changed from Kazakhoil to "NC KazMunayGas" CJSC (KMG). The minor restructuring
had little impact. After the first project restructuring the project was no longer at risk.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The project was difficult to supervise because of the long distances involved, high
mission costs both in terms of time and funds, and the time differences between Zhana
Uzen and Washington (usually about 9 hours.). Several indicators in the SAR could not
be used for monitoring during most of the project's life because they were out of date
very early due to the initial long delays connected with restructuring and changes in the
approach. However, the project could and was monitored regularly compared to its
starting base year (1996) and the previous year. In particular the following indicators ,
inter alia, were monitored 1)production from the field: 2) production from block 3A; 3)
the number of oil pits cleaned, 4) the number of workers trained:5)) the financial
condition of UMG including profits and cash flow; 6) disbursements from the Loan; and
7) the quality of UMG, later KMG E&P's financial statements. During missions other
objectives such as privatization were also discussed. .

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

The main safeguard issues were environmental. The project was rated an A and an
environmental assessment was carried out. The legal agreements did not require any
environmental remediation (just a remediation plan for Block 3A) but remediation was
undertaken anyhow because with the development of new technology by UMG and its
consultants, it turned out to be relatively simple to do and profitable. (This technology
was separation of the bitumen (solidified oil) in the oil pits from the sand and dirt. As the
oil price rose this became economically attractive.)


                                                 4

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Uzen is an old oil field. It is likely to resume its decline in production within a few years.
To mitigate against this, the Bank Supervision Team has recommended that KMG E&P:
1) review the possibility of using Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR) methods at the field;
and 2) launch an active exploration program in the area around the field since there
appear to be undrilled smaller structures in the area, which may contain oil and gas.

The field has provided substantial cash flow to KMG which it is using largely to fund its
share of the costs of developing the oil fields in the Caspian Sea. It is expected that
KMG's production, including its share of these offshore fields, will rise rapidly over the
next ten years, with the offshore fields far more than offsetting the probable decline of
production from Uzen.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The objectives, final design and implementation of the project remain relevant. The
project has made a useful contribution to the rapid economic growth in Kazakhstan, both
by increasing production and income from the Uzen Field and by training a number of
Kazakhs, who have helped develop the Kazakh Petroleum Industry. The petroleum
industry in turn is driving Kazakhstan's economic growth

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)

The project development objectives have been achieved. In fact some of them were
significantly over achieved (production, environment, training). The list of project
development objectives and their achievement is given below.

Objective 1: Reduce the rate of decline in production of the Uzen Oil Field and
generate resources for investment therefor: Result: Oil production at the field has
increased sharply- much more than was anticipated in the SAR. At the time of project
approval in 1996 annual production in the field was 2.78 Million tons. The target of the
project was to raise it to 3.54 Million tons in 2000 and then 2.94 Million tons in 2006. In
fact it was 4.1 Million tons in 2000 and has continued rising to 6.73 Million tons in 2006.
Modified net cash flow increased from US$13.4 Million in 1996 (UMG) to US$ 1488
Million in 2005 ( KMG E&P). About 80percent of the KMG E&P cash flow came from
UMG so this is an increase of around 88 fold.




                                                 5

Objective 2: Promote the reorganization of UMG into viable corporate units and
its/their privatization. Result: The company was reorganized into larger operating
units and its social role (directly supporting the town of Zhana Uzen) reduced. This was
done in the early stages of the project. It has been partially privatized with 40percent of
the shares of KMG E&P (which is mostly UMG) sold to the public and listed on the
London and Almaty Stock Exchanges. (This privatization was a development indicator
in the SAR.) The value of the Initial Public Offering (IPO) was US$2.2 Billion.
Currently about 60 percent of the float is held in Kazakhstan and about 40 percent traded
on the London Stock Exchange. The price of the stock has risen substantially since
listing.

Objective 3: Assess the impact of past operating practices on the present condition
of the reservoirs, wells and the environment of the field. Result: An assessment was
done of the impact of past operating practices on the field. This assessment was done by
the consultants and UMG. The field had been developed following the classic Soviet
approach of installing a water flood early and drilling a large number of wells. This
approach would not be used today but at the time was normal. This assessment has lead
in part to a reservoir model for the field which is not quite complete. (See discussion by
KMG E&P in Annex 7.) This reservoir model takes into account the past operating
results from the field and provides a tool for planning future wells and water floods. It
will make further development more accurate and less expensive.

An environmental assessment was also done for the field and the then current operating
practices with suggestions on remediation. The main conclusions were that the surface of
the field should be remediated, an emergency plan adopted and an environmental
laboratory established. These have been done ­ see below.

Objective 4: Contribute to the remediation of past environmental damage to the
field and strengthen environmental monitoring and management. Result:
Remediation of past environmental damage in the field has been undertaken with the
elimination of almost all existing surface oil pits. These pits had long been considered
the single largest environmental problem at Uzen. The number of these surface oil pits
has fallen from 163 to one. Furthermore, the environmental monitoring and management
potential has improved with the construction of an environmental laboratory, which is
used to measure pollution of various sorts especially water pollution.

Objective 5: Train UMG's staff in modern oil field operating practices and
strengthen its capacity to manage the implementation of the rehabilitation program
and oil field operations. Result: A training program was devised working with the
Petroleum Industry Training Center in Almaty and a Canadian Technical Institute. As a
result a large number of UMG staff have been trained both using Bank funds (about
1075) and even more trained using UMG's own funds (about 7904).

The table below shows results compared to targets given in the SAR.




                                               6

                                 Results compared to Targets

   PDO Indicator          Baseline         Original Target       Revised Target     Actual Results)
                            Value               Values               Values
                                            (from approval      (as approved by
                                              documents)             original
                                                                    approving
                                                                    authority)
Indicator 1 ( applies
to PDO 1)              Oil production of the Uzen Field
:
                 Value                                                              4.14 Million tons (
       (quantitative or2.78 Million       3.54 Million tons                          2000)
          Qualitative) tons ( 1996)       ( 2000)                                   6.7 Million tons
                                          2.94 Million tons                         ( 2006)
                                          ( 2006)
            Comments   The original target values are calculated based on the economic projections
         (incl. percentin the SAR. The SAR projected production peaking in 2000 and then
         achievement)  falling. Actual production exceeded forecast values and has continued to
                       rise- a far superior result.



Indicator 2 ( applies  Modified Net Cash Flow from operations
to PDO 1)
:
                 Value                    n.a.
       (quantitative orUS $13.4                                                     US $1488 mllion
          Qualitative) Million ( 1996                                               ( 2005)
                       est.)

            Comments   The measure used in the SAR for UMG is revenue-taxes-pipeline tariffs-
         (incl. percentpayroll. There are no forecasts of this number beyond 1999. The 2005 actual
         achievement)  number is for KMG E&P but about 80percent of this is UMG. The increase
                       in cash flow is due to higher production and much higher prices. No data is
                       yet available for 2006, but it is believed that modified cash flow will be even
                       higher in 2006.
Indicator 3 ( applies
to PDO 2)                                       Percent of company privatized

                       0percent 1996                                                  40percent (2006)
Comment                An early attempt to privatize UMG was put on hold and then allowed to
                       lapse. Actual partial privatization occurred in 2006 for KMG E&P at what
                       is highly likely a very much higher price.
Indicator 4 ( applies
to PDO 3)                           Assessments of Past Operating Practices Completed
                        No ( 1996)                                                    Yes ( 2001)
Comments:              The main consultants did an assessment of the impact of past operating
                       practices and their impact on the field although their main thrust was to try
                       to improve practices. An environmental consulting firm did an



                                                  7

                      environmental assessment of the field and the problems with existing
                      practices.



PDO Indicator 5       Number of oil pits on surface of Uzen Field
( applies to PDO 4)
:
Value
( quantitative or           163                 163                                    1 ( 2006)
qualitative)
Comments              The objective was to contribute to the remediation of the environmental
( incl percent        damage done to the field. However, there were no specific targets aside from
achievement)          development of indices. This project cleaned up the oil pits, except for one
                      which has technical issues, although this was not required by the Project or
                      Loan Agreements.

Indicator 6 ( applies Number of Employees trained
to PDO 5)

Value
( quantitative or            0                  N.A.                                 8979 ( 2006)
qualitative)
Comments              There were no specific targets for training although it was an objective.


Indicator 7 ( applies Production from Block 3A area
to PDO 1)

Value
( quantitative or        298,000                N.A.                                731,000 (2006)
qualitative)              ( 1996)
Comment:              The project objective was to slow the production decline from the field.
                      However, this was supposed to be done by concentrating resources on Block
                      3A with successful techniques in block 3A then being adopted for use in the
                      rest of the field. Rising production in block 3A was thus related to rising
                      production in the field.



3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)




The SAR estimated the real Economic Rate of Return (ERR) as 38 percent. The real ERR
is, however, about 92 percent. The current estimate is based on converting all of the data
in Kazakh Tenge to dollars and then deflating by the US CPI. This rate of return makes
fairly conservative assumptions about the future price of oil namely that the Uzen export
price declines and then stabilizes at around $38 per barrel by 2012, remaining fairly
stable thereafter. (The Uzen export price is substantially below the popularly quoted
crude prices such as Brent or WTI.) The financial rate of return (FRR) is about 73
percent excluding leverage. This rate of return, while still spectacular, is lower than the


                                                 8

economic rate of return primarily because of the profit and VAT taxes paid by UMG,
followed by KMG E&P.

These rates of return are very high because: 1) the impact of expenditures was very fast
with production from each worked over well rising sharply; 2) overall production was
much higher than anticipated; 3) prices were several fold higher than anticipated; 4) both
production and prices increased together, resulting in very large increases in revenue.
(This is illustrated by the 88 fold increase in modified cash flow shown as indicator 2
above.).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The project is satisfactory. It remains highly relevant (although it is more likely to be
done by the private sector in the future), the development objectives were achieved, and
the rate of return on the project is very high.

The project was rated the best oil project in Kazakhstan in 2006 by the Kazakhs. In this
competition it was competing with the larger and more significant projects in the oil-and-
gas and petrochemical industries of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project has had a major direct impact on reducing poverty in the city of Zhana Uzen
and in Mangistau Province. If production in the Uzen Oil Field had continued to decline
as forecast in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), then virtually all of the employees of
UMG would have lost their jobs and the city of Zhana Uzen would have lost its economic
base. The province of Mangistau where it is located would have also been severely
affected. The Government could have subsidized the declining oil field but this would
have been very expensive and a poor solution to the problem

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

There have been major changes in UMG (KMG E&P) resulting from the project. The
company has become much more familiar with Western oil field technology, which is
more advanced than the old Soviet technology they had been using. Training has been
greatly accelerated, reservoir modeling ( which was previously non existent)
implemented and procurement improved. "Graduates" of the Uzen field are now staffing
other oil companies in Kazakhstan and the parent company, KMG, in Astana

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)




                                                9

The main unintended outcome was that oil pits were almost entirely removed from the
surface of the field. This needed to be done, but was not an objective. (A clean up plan
for block A including oil recovery was required.) UMG staff working with the
environmental consultants developed a simple procedure for cleaning the pits (gravity
separation) which was quite profitable and as oil prices rose it got even more profitable.
As a result all but one of the pits on the surface of the field had been cleaned by the end
of 2006.

A secondary unintended outcome was that the project was overage and took a long time
to complete. It was supposed to be completed December 31, 2000 and was in fact
completed April 30, 2007. In fact it really didn't get underway until about 2001. This was
due to; 1) three restructurings of which two caused delays, 2) a serious underestimate of
how long would be needed to test the technologies and start the rehabilitation of the field,
and 3)slow procurement.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial risk if the development objective is narrowly defined, otherwise low.

If the outcome is narrowly defined as the continuation of near current levels of
production at the Uzen oil field, the risk is quite significant. This is an old oil field. It is
not possible to maintain current levels of production in the long term although the life of
the field can be significantly extended by proper operation and introduction of new
technologies. This situation is true for all oil fields. They are found, developed, peak and
decline. Production may be maintained longer by UMG/KMG E&P using enhanced oil
recovery techniques on Uzen and a study of this issue needs to be done. Also the
company should look for oil and gas in its concession area or in other areas where it may
receive a concession. The seismic surveys of the Uzen area show a number of other
structures, which might contain oil or gas, although they are not as large as the Uzen
structure. Finally UMG needs to improve its budgetary system which is part of the
Government system and is overly rigid and inflexible. This budgetary system may work
for Government departments but not for operating oil companies.

If the development outcome is interpreted more broadly as a continuing high level of
production for KMG or Kazakhstan, then the risk is very low. New fields are being
developed to replace Uzen (in part using the cash flow from Uzen) and overall production
is expected to rise sharply for the next decade or so.

The city of Zhana Uzen will likely depend on the Uzen Field and other fields in the area
for many years. However, it might be developed as an oil service center since it has
substantial facilities for repairing oil service equipment and a large work force trained in
providing oil field services..




                                                10

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank made a very major effort to try to get this project right and it basically did.
There were several missions under very trying circumstances and the project was
probably as well prepared as possible, given the limited information and experience
available. In retrospect of course the project could be improved with a better estimate of
costs and the time required to implement it.


(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank made a significant effort to supervise the project with a large number of
missions in the early years which then tapered off as the project was restructured and
became successful. Over the 12 years of the project (1996-2007) there were 24 missions.
After the initial period the team working on the project was fairly stable so that an
understanding of the project, its issues and how they were changing over time could be
developed. There was a single TTL from 2000 to 2007 and only two different petroleum
engineers during this period.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank performance was good. The project took a lot of supervision because of its
relative complexity, the distance involved and the three restructurings. Also there were
five closing date extensions. In spite of this the project achieved or over achieved its
objectives.

5.2 Borrower Performance
Rating Satisfactory

The borrower throughout most of the project was the Kazakh State Oil Company. This
was first Kazakhoil and then it merged into KMG. They provided oversight for the
project and their performance was satisfactory.


(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government guaranteed the loan, but had little direct involvement in the project.


                                                11

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Implementing Agency                                         Performance
KMG E&P                                                     Satisfactory
UMG                                                         Satisfactory

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The borrower was originally the Government, then Kazakhoil and then KMG. The
implementing agency was UMG and then KMG E&P. For the first six or eight years of
the project Kazakhoil and then KMG were very interested in the project and followed it
closely. In the later years when the project was more mature and doing well, they were
less interested. (Also later they were very involved in Caspian Development). KMG E&P
and UMG did well in the implementation role but always seemed to have budgeting
problems or Kazakh procurement procedure problems which made unbudgeted
expenditures difficult outside the loan.

The data provided by KMG E&P (UMG) on its outlays for the project shows that they
spent US$ 41.2 Million. These outlays consisted of VAT, import duties, their own time
and expenses and investments in surface facilities and goods. This is more than the SAR
estimate (US$ 27 Million) and represents a very worthwhile effort. However, their
expenditures were not at all flexible and they had difficulty buying items such as spare
parts, on short notice. Thus at times counter part funds were not available (for budget or
procurement reasons) although total outlays by the borrower and beneficiary were quite
impressive.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Rehabilitation of old oil fields (or other rehabilitation projects) take a substantial amount
of time and are complex. The Bank, if it does other such projects especially oil fields,
must be willing to accept the substantial amount of time required. Furthermore unlike
greenfield projects, rehabilitation project costs are less certain since the condition of the
underlying asset is usually not fully known. Often, however, rehabilitation projects have
high returns since most of the investment is already made. In this case, the results were
even better than the bullish expectations since production results were excellent and
prices for oil were much higher than anticipated.

The Kazakhs learned a lot from the project about Western Oil Field Technology and
practices with this information being shared fairly widely in Kazakhstan. This is one of
the reasons the project received the best award for oil field projects in 2006.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies




                                              12

UMG is correct. The cost of the surface facilities was greatly underestimated in the SAR.

The Bank's experience with the project management consulting firm was not as negative
as that indicated by UMG. However, there was constant turnover in the consultants on
site which did reduce their effectiveness. Also the great majority of them were not long
term employees of the firm and were hired for this specific job, which reduced team work.
Although most of them had extensive experience in the industry, experience with Bank
projects was limited. At the end of the consulting firm's contract they had several quite
good consultants in place which KMG E&P kept.

Procurement was slowed by both Bank and UMG procedures. When they were combined,
it made it particularly difficult to move ahead at any reasonable speed.

(b) Cofinanciers
none
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Nonr




                                                 13

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

The breakdown below conforms with the project cost estimates shown at paragraph 6.45
on page 56 of the SAR.
                                         Appraisal
              Components               Estimate (USD    Actual/Latest    Percentage of

                                            M)        Estimate (USD M)      Appraisal

WORKOVER GOODS (parts, chemicals
equipment etc.)                                 15.1               83.7      554percent

SURFACE FACILITIES                              23.5               6.30       27percent
WORKOVER TECHNICAL SERVICES                     39.2               27.8       71percent
ENVIRONMENTAL
MONITORING/REMEDIATION                           7.0                6.0       86percent

INFORMATION SYSTEMS                             1.20               2.29      190percent
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE,
TRAINING AND STUDIES                            17.0               20.0      118percent

PROJECT PREPARATION ADVANCE                    0.014               0.014     100percent
                       Total Base Cost       103.00              146.1
Physical and Price Contingencies               31.00
                    Total Project Costs          .00
Front-end fee PPF                               2.00                .01           0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                              0.00               0.00           0.00
            Total Financing Required         136.00              146.1       107percent




(b) Financing

    Source of Funds          Type of     Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage
                          Cofinancing         (USD M)               (USD M)             of
                                                                                     Appraisal

 Borrower                       Equity                  27.00                  41.2 152percent

 International Bank for
Reconstruction and                                     109.00                 104.9   96percent
Development




                                           14

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The Main component is well work-overs. This consists of two sub components. The first
subcomponent is goods for well work-overs such as chemicals, tubing, specialized
cement, work-over rig parts etc. The other subcomponent is technical assistance with well
work-overs which was provided by a specialized Canadian Drilling Company and other
consultants. Most of the loan was used for work-overs as is shown in Annex 1 above.
There were 374 worked over wells which were considered part of the project and average
incremental production from each well is about 6.22 tons per day at peak. This excludes
the non-project wells which were worked over. Total incremental production from 2001,
when the project really got underway, to 2013 from the project work-over wells is about
3.3 million tons. The impact on the whole field is many times this since the project
equipment and training were used on non-project wells also. However, this is harder to
measure and would produce an even higher ERR. For this reason KMG decided not to
use it when calculating the FRR.

The surface facilities, which were a component, were generally not funded by the Bank.
The initial cost estimate of these facilities contained in the SAR was seriously low and it
was not possible to finance the facilities as anticipated with this size loan. However,
certain surface facilities, which were part of the project, were financed by UMG/KMG
E&P including replacing much of the surface pipe in block 3A. It is suggested that KMG
E&P finance a water treatment plant to improve the quality of water that is being injected
into the field and further help extend its life.

The Bank financed computers and information systems, which were a component. After
review, it was decided that the most important information technology for the long term
survival of the field was reservoir modeling hardware and software. A reservoir model
was developed and is being used although it is still being further expanded.

The environmental component was very successfully implemented with an environmental
assessment of the field, environmental training, a laboratory equipped and operating, and
all but one of the surface pits at the field cleaned up.




                                               15

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

The initial plan was to concentrate the project on the rehabilitation of 500 wells In fact
about 450 wells were rehabilitated directly by the project, which are mostly in 3A.
However, the equipment purchased by the project is also being used for a number of
wells which are not project wells. This adds to production (the main objective of the
project) but the production of these non-project wells is not included in the rate of return.
Since the rate of return is already high this is not an issue in terms of evaluating the
project. However, if the non-project wells were included of course the rate of return
would be even higher.

The economic and financial analysis was carried out largely by KMG in Astana. The data
was provided by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) at the Uzen Field. However, it
was put into a spread sheet by KMG. The Bank team reviewed the data and made some
adjustments to the calculations to obtain the Economic Rate of Return and to provide a
measure of the financial rate of return (after tax and before leverage) that would be more
commonly used by the Bank. Also the forecast of oil prices was increased somewhat so
that these prices are consistent with the most recent forecasts of EIA and more consistent
with the futures market. (See below).

The price that KMG E&P receives for exports rose from US$ 21 per barrel in 2001 to
about US$44 per barrel in 2006. It is then assumed to decline gradually to US$ 38 per
barrel in 2012 and stay at that level through 2013. These prices are based on the price
forecasts of the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) contained in their
publication Annual Energy Outlook with Projections to 2030 dated February 2007. They
are somewhat below those forecast by the futures markets.

The analysis is carried out over the period 1997 through 2013. After an initial period,
1997-2000, when the project was being restructured and then started, incremental
production from the project wells started in 2001. It rises and peaks at close to 500,000
tons per year in 2006. It then declines fairly sharply to 2013 when it is 127,000 tons per
year. This may be correct in the narrow sense that the tools purchased by the project will
wear out. However, the impact of the training and experience will continue longer, so a
case could be made for higher levels of production. However, this was not done in order
to be conservative and because the ERR was already so high.

The Economic Analysis is done in real terms with net cash flow before taxes, converted
to dollars at the actual or forecast exchange rate and then deflated by the US CPI. Using
this methodology the ERR for the project is 92 percent- a very high number. As
mentioned above this is a conservative estimate of the ERR since it excludes non project
wells, uses crude prices lower than the futures markets and may not fully take into
account the impact of training and experience.. The ERR in the SAR is 38 percent so that
the calculated ERR is substantially higher. The main drivers of the high ERR are the
much higher production than anticipated and the even much higher prices than



                                              16

anticipated. Also the surge in production connected with the project was more or less
coincident with the surge in prices.

The financial rate of return (FRR) is measured after VAT and corporate income
taxes( which are fairly high) and is 73 percent. This compares favorably with the FRR in
the SAR which is 31 percent.




                                            17

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
        Names                 Title               Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR

Norpulat Daniyarov   Financial Management
                     Specialis             ECSPS

Angelica A. Fernandes Procurement Analyst  ECSPS
James Sayle Moose    Consultant            ECSSD
Akin O. Oduolowu     Consultant            QAG
Yukari Tsuchiya      Program Assistant     ECSSD
Leonid Vanian        Sr Procurement Spec.  ECSPS



b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

           Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD Thousands
                                            No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                   consultant costs)
Lending
                   FY93                                                         11.12
                   FY94                                                        236.02
                   FY95                                                        156.56
                   FY96                                                        115.58
                   FY97                                                          0.00
                   FY98                                                          0.00
                   FY99                                                          0.00
                   FY00                                                          0.00
                   FY01                                                          0.00
                   FY02                                                          0.00
                   FY03                                                          0.00
                   FY04                                                          0.00
                   FY05                                                          0.00
                   FY06                                                          0.00
                   FY07                                                          0.00
                                     Total:                                    519.28
Supervision/ICR
                   FY93                                                          0.00
                   FY94                                                          0.00
                   FY95                                                          0.33
                   FY96                                                         14.12


                                         18

FY97                     204.24
FY98                     115.90
FY99                     117.48
FY00               35     124.22
FY01               28     114.63
FY02               17     112.37
FY03               20     132.77
FY04               19     105.37
FY05               15     111.84
FY06                7      99.51
FY07                3      12.40
        Total:    144    1265.18




            19

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

None




                                    20

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

None




                                  21

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


The main objectives of the project have been achieved as mentioned by World Bank
missions in 2004-2006. Major achievements are:

1. Increase of Block 3A oil production of more than two times was achieved by
    carrying out well workovers and improvement of water injection techniques.
2. Introduction of GeoQuest Schlumburger software on Block 3A and then on the
    whole field provided a system for monitoring and management of the reservoirs,
    and improvement and optimization of the reservoir engineering system for the
    whole field. This boosted the oil recovery rate of the field.
3. Measures of possible incremental production against investments were established
    and used in determining cost-effectiveness of operations aimed to increase
    production.
4. Established a reliable and efficient gathering system on Block 3A. Operational
    cost for maintenance of surface facilities was decreased.
5. Environmental condition of the field was improved. Clean-up program was
    launched.
6. UMG staff were trained in modern methods of production and operational
    management.

One of the main achievements is that Parts A, B and C of the Loan Agreement were
amended. As a result, UMG now uses state-of-the-art equipment for work-over,
logging, cementing and testing and has manpower trained for maintenance and
operation of this equipment, which is being successfully run at Uzen field.

A number of organizational and engineering issues have been raised both by the
implementing agency and its international consultants and the Bank. The following is
a summary of some issues raised in this ICR.


        Comments to Paragraph 2, subparagraph 2.1.


        The original cost estimate in the SAR (1996) of rehabilitation of surface
facilities was underestimated since some significant aspects were not taken into
account at the project preparation stage. As estimated by SNC-Lavalin (Canada), the
actual cost of surface facilities would exceed many times the estimated cost. The
analysis of the cost discrepancy showed that during its preliminary survey the Bank
team had not considered some important requirements, which were determined at a
later stage of the project. For example, the temperature at the wellhead of produced
fluids is far lower than originally indicated and thus the surface facilities required the
use of a fluid heating system.




                                           22

       The study by SNC-Lavalin showed that detailed design engineering and
introduction of a SCADA system as well as construction of roads, buildings and
pipeline pigging would significantly increase the final cost of rehabilitation. Besides,
expenditures for transportation and insurance were not considered in the cost
estimates. The construction work costs were not included as well. Furthermore, the
accepted contracting strategy of fixed price contracts brought an increase in
contingency costs and the contractor's profit. Finally, because of delays in the project
implementation the project costs underwent major inflation.

       With insufficient funds allocated in the loan for surface facilities, most of the
renovations and equipment acquisition on block 3A were funded by UMG.


       Paragraph 3.

       According to the requirements of the World Bank a tender was held to select a
project management consulting company. During the project implementation it was
discovered that the consultant's specialists did not have adequate experience with WB
projects and were not familiar with its procedures and policies. Not only did
procurement managers turn out to be incompetent but also technical managers kept
ignoring this fact and took no measures to solve this problem. Only in February 2001
was a decision taken to replace one of the procurement consultants. Finally, due to
the requirement imposed by       project management, 6 consultant specialists were
replaced as follows: 2 technical managers, 2 financial managers, 1 workover
consultant and 1 reservoir engineer.

       Delivery of the main equipment and tools required for the workover program
using the six western rigs (Cardwell-200s and Kremco-80s ) was scheduled for 2001.
However, due to the requirement imposed by the project management team, the
workover program commenced in September 2000 with one Kremco-80 rig, aiming to
confirm the required tools and equipment to start full scale operations according to
API standards.

       Workover with one rig showed that a number of tools (choke manifold, drill
pump, subs, washing tanks, packers etc.) had not been ordered yet.

       As the main workover equipment was delivered, the workover program
commenced starting September 2001 using the other five rigs.

       It was assumed that all rigs have complete sets of tools and equipment.
However, on-site operations in inactive wells unveiled their incompleteness. It turned
out that only one rig could be operated at full capacity and was fit to carry out
complex works. The workover program designed by the consultants had numerous
mistakes and errors which caused a long delay in accomplishing the workover
program. The errors and mistakes committed by the consultant were discovered by



                                           23

the specialists from Bonus Simmons (Workover Management Contractor), also
contracted as a requirement of the World Bank.

       Subparagraph 3.2.

       A geological and hydrodynamic model of Block 3A was completed, providing
improved control and operation of the reservoir, enhancing reservoir engineering and
thus increasing oil recovery of the field. Currently, a geological and hydrodynamic
model of Uzen and Karamandybas field are being built..

       Subparagraph 3.5. (c)

       The Consultants, Ecology & Environment (USA), have carried out an
ecological audit of Block 3A and obtained a positive rating from the Ministry of
Natural Resources, ecology and environment unit. A biological clean-up and testing
of four pilot areas was completed.        Three areas with various soil content and
contamination were planted with seeds.           An ecological laboratory has been
established with highly accuracy gauges and tools and an emergency contingency
plan developed. Moreover, UMG has generated an oil pit clean-up method by layer,
which increased the output of the Hard Oil Treatment Unit (gravity separation).

       It should be noted that along with the problems caused by the budget system
and Kazakhstan procurement procedures mostly encountered by UMG and KMG EP
during the project, the loan disbursement procedures posed difficulties as well.

       The following main factors caused delays in the project implementation:

    · Requirement to obtain no-objection and agreement for every action in
        procurement of goods and services, worsened by the lack of highly qualified
        specialists:
            1. no-objection to procurement plan and method to be used;
            2. no-objection to short list suppliers;
            3. no-objection to bidding documents;
            4. no-objection to evaluation bidding report
    · Preference for standard procedures over quality and low price. For example:
        the Bank rejected procuring wellhead equipment from bidder FMC (France)
        which resulted in a loss of US $350,000 by UMG;
    · Requirement for preliminary selection of bidders and development of detailed
        lists of equipment and materials for designing, supply and installation of
        surface facilities as well as review of bidding documents have delayed the
        project implementation for 1.5 year period.




                                           24

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None




                                   25

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report Republic of Kazakhstan, Uzen Oil Field Rehabilitation Project
June 10,1996
Memorandum and Recommendation of the President June 10, 1996
Loan Agreement with the Republic of Kazkakhstan July 18, 1996
Amended and Restated Loan Agreement with Kazakhoil
Loan Assumption Agreement with" National Company "Kazmunaygas ,May 20,2003
Project Agreement with Uzenmunaigas, July 18,1996
Letter changing name of beneficiary from Uzenmunaigas to Kazmunaygas Exploration
and Production
Assignment and Consent Decree among Republic of Kazakhstan, IBRD and closed joint
stock company" National Oil and Gas Company " Kazakhoil"
Amended Guarantee Agreement with the Republic of Kazakhstan, May 20, 2003
Audited, Unqualified Financial Statements for Kazmunaygas Exploration and Production
for the years December 31, 2003-2005
Audited Financial Statements for Uzenmunaygas years ending December 31, 2001-2002
Audited Unqualified Financial Statements for National Company Kazmunaygas for 2005.
IRIS data bank with a large number of memos and Aide Memoires and procurement
information.




                                          26

