                                     Documentof
                                 The World Bank

                          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                               ReportNo.: 26034-MAG




                          PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                          ONA

                                  PROPOSEDCREDIT

                       INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR21.9 MILLION
                            (US$30MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR

                                         FOR A

           GOVERNANCEAND INSTITUTIONALDEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                    October 22,2003




Public Sector Reformand Capacity BuildingUnit
CountryDepartment 8
Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       (Exchange Rate Effective October 21,2003)
                             Currency Unit = Malagasy Franc (FMG)
                                     FMGl = US$0.000168
                                      US$1 = FMG5,900


                                  January 1 -- December 31
                                      FISCALYEAR


                         ABBREVLATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL      Adaptable Program Lending
BN-P     Bureau national duprojet
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
cc       ChambreKour des comptes
CCM      Commission centrale des march&
CDE      ContrGle des ddpenses engagkes
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CNFA     Centre national deformation administrative
CNTEMAD  Centre national de til&-enseignement de Madagascar
C P M    Commission provinciale des march&
CRROC    Cellule de riforme et de renforcement des organes de contrble
CSLC     Conseil supe'rieur de lutte contre la corruption
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Review
CQ       Consultant's Qualifications
DLC      Distance Learning Center
EMP      EnvironmentalManagement Plan
ENAM     Ecole nationale d'administration deMadagascar
ENMG     Ecole nationale de la magistrature et des greffes
EPA      Etablissements publics a caract2re administratif
EU       EuropeanUnion
FMR      Financial Monitoring Report
GDLN     Global Development Learning Network
GoM      Government of Madagascar
GPN      General Procurement Notice
HIPC     Highly-Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD     Intemational Bank for Reconstructionand Development
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      International Development Agency
IFMIS    IntegratedFinancial Management Information System
IGE      Inspection gdnkrale de 1Etat
IGF      Inspection g4n&raledes Finances
L C      Least Cost Selection
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
N C B    National Competitive Bidding
NGO      N o n Governmental Organization
N S      National Shopping
PAD      Project Appraisal Document

                                                              FOROFFICLAL USEONLY




     PAIGEP    Projet d'appui institutionnel ii la gestion publique
     PCOP      Plan comptable des opirations publiques
     PHRD      Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
     PPF       Project PreparationFund
     PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
     QCBS       Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
     RFP        Request for Proposals
     SIGFP      SystBme intdgrd de gestion desfinances publiques
     SOE        Statement o f Expenditure
     SPN        Specific Procurement Notice
     TEF        Titre d'engagementfinancier
     TOR        Terms of Reference
     UNDP       UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram
     USAID      United States Agency for InternationalDevelopment
     WBI        World Bank Institute

                                  Vice President:        Callisto E.Madavo
                                Country Director:        Hafez M.H.Ghanem
                                 Sector Manager:         Jit Bahadur S. Gill
                                    Team Leader:         Guenter Heidenhof




This document has a restricted distribution and may beusedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                           MADAGASCAR
               GOVERNANCE AND INSTITUTIONALDEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page

   1. Project development objective                                                     2
   2. Key performance indicators                                                        2

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedbythe project      2
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        2
   3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                6

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components
   2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project
   3. Benefits and target population
   4. Institutional and implementationarrangements

D.ProjectRationale

   1. Project alternatives considered andreasons for rejection                          10
   2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies      11
   3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                12
   4. Indications o fborrower commitment and ownership                                  12
   5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                       12

E.Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                          13
   2. Financial                                                                         13
   3. Technical                                                                         13
   4. Institutional                                                                     14
   5. Environmental                                                                     16
   6. Social                                                                            17
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                18

F. Sustainability andRisks

   1. Sustainability                                                                    18
   2. Critical risks                                                                    19

  3 , Possible controversial aspects                               20


G. Main Conditions

  1, Effectiveness Condition                                       21
  2. Other                                                         21

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                     21

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                       21



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                    22
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                              29
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                    44
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                       45
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                         50
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                              51
          (B) FinancialManagement and Disbursement Arrangements    58
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                               66
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                              68
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                           69
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                      70
Annex 11: Letter o f Development Policy                            72

                                                    MADAGASCAR
                                     Governance and Institutional Development Project
                                          ProjectAppraisal Document
                                                Africa Regional Office
                                                         AFTPR

late: October 22, 2003                                        Team Leader: Guenter Heidenhof
sector Manager: Jit Bahadur S. Gill                           Sector(s): General public administration sector (100%)
2ountry Director: Hafez M.H.Ghanem                            Theme(s): Public expenditure, financial managementand
?roject ID: PO74448                                           procurement (P), Other public sector governance (S)
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)


  [ ]Loan              [XI Credit  [ ] Grant     [ ] Guarantee          [ ]Other:
 For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $30.00

 Proposed Terms (IDA): StandardCredit
 Grace period (years): 10                                     Years to maturity: 40
 Commitmentfee: 0.5%                                          Service charge: 0.75%



[DA
-                                                                            11.97             18.03            30.00
Total:                                                                      23.14      1I      34.86    II      58.00
                                                                                      I                 I
 Borrower: REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR                                                                               P




 Responsible agency: OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
 BureauNational du Projet
 Address: AntananarivolMadagascar
 Contact Person: Rajaonary Raoilison, Directeur
 Tel: (261) 202220911                   Fax: (261) 202220912                  Email: mpaigep@dts.mg
Estimated Disbursements( Bank FYlUS$m):




 Project implementation period: 2004 2008 (5 years)
                                          -
 Expected effectiveness date: 01/01/2004       Expected closing date: 06/30/2009
'CE PAD F" P* Mare 2m

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main objectives o f the project are to assist the Government o f Madagascar (GoM) inimplementing the
poverty reduction strategy which is set out inthe Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) by:

   0    Rationalizing and modemizing budget and public expenditure management,
   0    Improving accountability and transparency o f Govemment operations, and by
        Strengthening the capacity o f public institutions to deal with complex change processes.

The project, which will be implementedover a period o f five years, intends to pave the way for subsequent
budget support under a PRSC presently scheduled for FY05. Ithas been designed as a technical assistance
operation which includes IT-system design and implementation, institutional development, capacity
building,organizational and regulatory changes.

2. Key performanceindicators: (see Annex 1)
The performance indicators are specified in Annex 1. They include (i)            number o f institutions to
which the new integrated financial management system has been rolled out, (ii)               accuracy and
timeliness o f reporting in the areas o f public finance, (iii)     reduction o f the discrepancy between
budget allocation and actual expenditures, (iv) compliance rate with public finance rules and
regulations, (v) increase o f the capacity o f local training institutions, and (vi) expedition o fjudicial
proceedings.

B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country AssistanceStrategy (CAS) goal supportedby the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 25001-MAGDate of latest CAS discussion: November 14, 2002
Madagascar plunged into a deep political crisis at the beginning o f 2002. After the general elections in
December 2001 two parallel Govemments were established, each with its own central bank, leading to a
freezing o f Madagascar's assets abroad, a suspension o f foreign exchange and a closure o f the treasury
bond market for several months. Economic activity fell sharply and poverty increased. The political crisis
ended in July 2002 with the departure o f the previous President. The new Government subsequently
presented its reconstruction and development program to the international community. The Madagascar
Interim CAS o f 2002 outlines the World Bank response to the post-crisis challenges. The main objective o f
the interim CAS is to limit the impact o f the crisis on the poor and to support the Government's recovery
program. Under the broad umbrella o f good govemance, this program focuses on (i)       supporting the most
vulnerable in society, (ii)
                          assist private sector firms to restart production and create employment, and (iii)
ensure adequate public services. A new CAS, covering the period FY04-06, has been prepared; the new
CAS and the full PRSP are scheduled for discussion by the Board at the same time as the proposed project.
A central theme of the new CAS are govemance reforms, inline with one o f the strategic objectives o fthe
PRSP. The proposed project, the new CAS and the full PRSP are inherently linked to each other: The CAS
will be the Bank's business plan for the PRSP, while this project will provide the technical basis for the
implementation o f the PRSP and the HIPC completion point triggers.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Madagascar is one o f the poorest countries in Africa with a per capita income o f U S 2 4 0 (in 2000), 70



                                                      - 2 -

percent o f the population in poverty and half o f the children malnourished. Poverty in Madagascar has
many causes. L o w agricultural productivity, a stagnant land market, lacking access to markets (roads,
electricity), a still small (although rapidly growing) light labor-intensive manufacturing sector, and high
illiteracy rates feature prominently. After years o f development assistance, the poverty rate in Madagascar
remains at the very highlevel o f 69%.

The public sector is crucial to reduce poverty: education and health services are needed for the poor to be
able to take better advantage o f economic possibilities, rural roads will help connect markets, basic services
like water, sanitation, electricity will improve living conditions directly and can spur local economic
development. Further, the public sector will have to play a role in the longer runto knit a social safety net
for those who cannot make it on their own. Currently, only a fraction o f vital and needed basic and social
services reach the poor. A number o f reasons are responsible for this. First, domestic revenues o f the
central and sub-national levels o f government are limited; exploitation o f several natural resources are far
below potential, especially in the mining sector. Second, service delivery is weak. The Malagasy budget
system requires urgent renovation as available credit lines - especially in the social sectors - are
underutilized. A complicated expenditure chain with numerous controls coexists with only limited
computerization. Third, decentralization has not yet contributed to more effective pro-poor service delivery
in the county. Key elements of the decentralization strategy remain to be defined; local governments will
need to be appropriately prepared and trained to assume service delivery functions.

This situation was further aggravated by the political crisis o f 2001l2002 which brought the country to a
complete standstill. Since July 2002, the new Government has outlined its political, social and economic
strategy which is consolidated in the recently finalized PRSP. The PRSP centers around three strategic
objectives: (i)  restoration o f the rule o f law and strengthening o f good govemance, (ii) economic growth,
and (iii) development and social protection. The project will assist Government in operationalizing
          human
the first objective. Inthis context, the Government has identified the following elements that form the basis
 for the operational agenda:

 Publicfinancereforms:
 The public finance system in Madagascar faces four main challenges:            First, budget and expenditure
 information is incomplete and unreliable. It does not provide the necessary basis for strategic decision
 making. Key reason is an outdated budget and expenditure management system that requires fundamental
 overhaul. Second, the budget preparation process is weak because o f the fragmentation o f preparation
 responsibility between the ministries implicated in the budget preparation process and the lack o f reliable
 information about budget execution, both on the income and on the expenditure sides. Third, the internal
 and external control functions are nonfunctional and undersourced, regular audits are almost nonexistent,
 except on an ad hoc basis. Fourth, the system o f public procurement i s flawed by comption and numerous
 inefficiencies.

 Under the World Bank funded Public Management Capacity Building Project (PAIGEP I)the old
 Government begun to target some of these weaknesses. In particular, it simplified and modemized the
 budget and accounting framework, the "plan comptable des opkrations publiques" (PCOP). The PCOP
 forms the basis for more reliable information from the treasury. Analytical work such as the recently
 completed Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) and the Country Procurement
 Assessment Review (CPAR), however, has emphasized the need to further deepen and consolidate the
 reforms to ensure that the system o f public finance will gradually be adjusted to international standards. In
 line with the recommendations o f this analytical work the G o M has initiated a comprehensive reform
 process to improve the system o f public finance: At the center o f the reforms is the introduction of a
 computerized and integrated budget and expenditure management system encompassing all agencies


                                                         - 3 -

involved in public financial management and at all levels o f government. This system will rationalize the
existing procedural and institutional set-up inview o f increasing the operational efficiency. Complementary
reforms will focus on improving the efficiency o f the procurement system as well as on improving internal
and external controls. As a first step the Government has merged the finance and the budget ministries
which had been recommended by various development partners for several years. Complementary reforms
will focus on strengthening transparency and accountability by improving internal and external controls. In
addition, the public procurement system will be adjusted inline with the recommendations o f the CPAR.

Fightagainstcorruption:
Inthe Transparency InternationalCorruption Perception Index o f 2003 Madagascar was rated 88th out o f
133 countries. For the G o M the corruption is one o f main sources for the lack o f progress in the
socioeconomic development o f the country; it has therefore decided to make the fight against corruption a
cornerstone o f its political agenda. Main objectives are to improve transparency and accountability o f
Government operations and to raise awareness about the implications o f corruption. The G o M has
established an Anti-Corruption Commission (Conseil Supkrieure de Lutte contre la Corruption) which i s
placed under the authority o f the President. The Commission will develop and coordinate the Government's
program; it i s also tasked to set up an independent Anti-Corruption Agency which will have investigative
authority. In addition, the Government has passed a decree which requires public and elected officials to
regularly declare all their assets and those o f their close relatives, regardless o f where these assets are held.
In response to the significant overspending o f the President's special find under the old regime the new
Government has mandated the Auditor General to conduct regular, semi-annual audits o f all special funds.
In an attempt to reduce discretionary powers, the Government is presently reviewing the approval
processes, inparticular inareas that provide services to the population or to the business community.

Legal andjudicialreform:
Inthe area o f legal andjudicial reforms the main objective o fthe Government is to restore the credibility o f
the judiciary which has been seriously undermined by rampant corruption and inefficiencies. Ultimate goal
 i s the establishment o f a credible and effective legal/judicial framework that provides equal access to all
 layers o f society and that fosters good governance, private sector development, gender equity and
 compliance with international law, thereby contributing to the establishment o f the rule o f law. The
 Government has identified five broad priority area which will form the basis o f a reform strategy which is
 yet to be developed: (i) against corruption, (ii)
                           fight                        expedition o f proceedings, (iii) o f business laws,
                                                                                         reform
 (iv) rehabilitation o f court and prison infrastructure, and (v) humanization o f detention facilities. The
 reforms intend to further deepen the reforms initiated under PAIGEP Iand to consolidate the achievements,
 inparticular inthe areas o f training, capacity buildingand codification o ftexts and regulations. The needs
 o f the private sector is a major consideration inthe formulation o f a legal andjudicial reform strategy. The
 immediate focus o f the Government i s the development o f an operational strategy validated by all key
 stakeholders. An independent review o f the judicial system has been scheduled for 2004 which will be
 supported by the EU and the World Bank. As a first step in the fight against corruption the Government
 also intends to strengthen internal control o f the judiciary. It has placed under investigation a number o f
 magistrates because o f corruption charges. Work has also begun to expedite civil and commercial law
 proceedings.

 Coordination,monitoring& evaluation:
 The Government i s working on building an efficient monitoring & evaluation (m&e) system for PRSP
 monitoring with support by various donors, especially UNDP. To date, however, there does not appear to
 be a coherent strategy in place where policy planning, service delivery, and management o f public
 investments are matched with policy analysis, evaluation, data collection, reporting and dissemination. In
 addition, (policy) coordination i s weak and inefficient. Past efforts have focused on data collection


                                                        - 4 -

activities with little emphasis on the use o f the information collected for policy making. Thus, much
remains to be done to reach minimumstandards for an efficient m&e framework which includes improved
coordination o f government activities. Such a framework i s an important prerequisite for PRSP
implementationto (a) orient policies and programs towards achieving objectives, while efficiently allocating
and managing financial and human resources, and (b) provide transparency and accountability, for civil
society for whom services are rendered. The Government recognizes the need for such a framework. As a
first step, it has installed in all ministries project coordinators whose main finction is to monitor and
evaluate implementation and consistency with overall policy objectives. It i s envisaged to establish at the
level of the Presidency a policy coordination, monitoring & evaluation infrastructure to improve strategic
decision making and to ensure that key Govemment strategies are adequately implemented.

Service deliveryimprovement:
Public sector activities in Madagascar are highly centralized, leading to low execution rates o f public
investments and poor performance at the service delivery level. To address this problem, the Government
has embarked on a two-tier strategy:        (i)To produce visible resultsinthe short termthe Government
intends to focus on a limited number o f public services with large public-private interface. These services
are likely to include customs, land titling, primary education and the commercial sections o f the courts.
Key objective i s to build a case for broader reforms by significantly improving the efficiency o f these
services. (ii) A t the same time the Government intends to shift responsibilities more and more to the service
delivery level. Inthis context, the main strategy i s to strengthen the local communities. This is based on the
assessment that the local communities are the main instruments for the delivery o f more and better services
to the population. This approach is in line with the recommendations o f a recently completed
decentralization ESW conducted by the Bank which confirms the need to focus on the local communities
and to slow down the devolution o f authority to the autonomous provinces. Inclose collaboration with the
development partners the Ministry for Decentralization and for the Development o f the Autonomous
Provinces i s presently working on an operational strategy aimed at strengthening the capacity o f the local
 communities. It i s anticipated to develop a common platform for capacity building which will be supported
by development partners.

 Training and capacity building:
 It is the Government's view that the training and capacity building needs in the context o f the
 implementation o f its reform program are substantial. The reform program will require significant
 investments in institutional and human resource development. The institutions that are at the center o f the
 reform process will need assistance to manage and implement the complex change processes triggered by
 the various reforms. Comprehensive awareness creation, training and capacity buildingwill be required to
 ensure the sustainability o f the reforms. The focus o f the Govemment i s therefore to strengthen the ability
 o f key institutions that are tasked to effectively manage institutional change and governance reforms, in
 particular the Ministries o f Justice, Budget and Finance. The Govemment also believes that without
 efficient local training institutions its ambitious reform program cannot be implemented and sustained. At
 the present stage the capacity o f local training institutions to deliver professional training in particular in
 the areas o f public finance management, general administration, monitoring & evaluation, legal andjudicial
 reforms i s limited. To reduce Madagascar's dependency on costly overseas training the Government has
 begun to upgrade some o f the key institutions and to enhance their capacity. It has made available to the
 National School for Magistrates and Clerks o f the Court (Ecole Nationale de la Magistrature et des
 Greffes, ENMG) new facilities which would enable the school to significantly enhance its training program.
 Similar plans exists for other institutions such as the National School o f Administration (Ecole Nationale
 &Administration de Madagascar, ENAM) and the National Center for Administrative Training (Centre
 National de Formation Administrative, CNFA). In line with these attempts to improve quality and quantity
 o f local training the Government has also requested to integrate Madagascar into the Global Development


                                                        - 5 -

Learning Network (GDLN) initiated by the World Bank.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project which would be implementedover a period o f 5 years will focus on improving the operational
efficiency o f the public finance system o f the GoM. To this end, it will deepen and further consolidate the
reforms initiated under PAIGEP Iand support the development and implementation o f an integrated
financial management system for the various levels o f Government. It will also enhance accountability and
transparency o f Government operations by strengthening internal and external controls. The project will
assist the G o M to adjust the public procurement system in line with international standards and to
strengthen coordination, monitoring and evaluation capacity inthe public administration. It will support the
fight against corruption as well as legal andjudicial reforms. The project will enhance the capacity o f local
institutions to deliver high-quality training in areas required for the sustainability o f the reforms.

C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for adetailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailed costbreakdown):
The project will enhance and further deepen previous reforms initiated under the Public Management
Capacity Building Project (PAIGEP I)which closed in December 2002. It can build on significant
analytical work, inparticular the recently completed Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA)
and the Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) as well as two major ESW that focused on
decentralization and poverty. The project which would be implemented over a period o f five years consists
o f two components:

Component 1 Improvement of transparency and economic governance
                -
This component would support a comprehensive reform o f the public finance system in Madagascar,
mainly at the central government level. The component would includefour sub-components: (i)            Integrated
public financial management system. The budget o f the central government would be prepared and
managed on the basis o f a comprehensive computerized system to which all agencies involved in budget
and expenditure management (Finance and Budget, line ministries, central and de-concentrated offices o f
central govemment) would be connected. The system would encompass the whole national budget: wages,
non-salary operating costs, investment, debt service, income mobilization (customs, taxes). This would
include the roll-out o f the integrated system developed and tested in the province o f Toamasina under
PAIGEP Ito the other five provinces. (ii)      Internal and external audit and control functions. The G o M
has prepared a proposal to comprehensively reform the internal and external audit functions in view o f
 strengthening capacity andputtinginplace an adequate framework. This work has been complemented and
further refined by the CFAA. The project will assist the G o M in implementing the recommendations to
 strengthen internal and external controls. It will particularly focus on adjusting the existing institutional
and procedural framework to international standards.           In this context, the project will support the
establishment o f an independent internal audit function in the Ministry o f Finance and Budget ('Inspection
 Generale des Finances'), the strengthening o f other control functions ('Brigade du Tresor', 'Inspection
 Generale de l'Etat', 'Controle des Depenses Engages', Conseil de Discipline Financiere et Budgetaire') and
the transformation o f the 'Chambre des Comptes'           into a 'Cour des Comptes' (Auditor General). (iii)
Procurement reform.      Based on the findings o f the CPAR, the project will assist the G o M in adjusting the
public procurement system to international standards. This will include a comprehensive reform o f the
 existing regulatory and institutional framework as well as significant capacity building activities to ensure
 compliance with the new rules and regulations. (iv) Change management, coordination, monitoring &
 evaluation. This sub-component will support the G o M to effectively manage complex reforms. It will assist
the G o M in strengthening monitoring and evaluation, in particular in view o f the implementation o f the



                                                        - 6 -

PRSP. It will support the development o f adequate mechanisms to coordinate andtrack the implementation
o f government policies, in particular at the level o f the Presidency. This will include support to the newly
created Anti-Comption Commission as well as capacity building activities for Government in the use o f
information for decision making, management, public investment oversight, policy analysis, evaluation and
reorientation o f policies and programs within the context o f the PRSP.

Component2 Capacity buildingand strengtheningof local traininginstitutions
                -
This component would focus on institutional development and capacity building activities in selected
government institutions. Capacity buildinginthe Ministry of Economic Affairs, Finance and Budget aims
at complementing the significant changes triggered by the reforms under component 1. To continue the
reforms initiated under PAIGEP Ithe Ministry of Justice will receive some support to improve its
operational efficiency to implement key reforms identified by the government (expedition o f civil and
commercial proceedings, strengthening o f intemal control to combat corruption). The component will also
support the Government's intention to foster the credibility o f the overall reform program by improving the
delivery of selected public sewices with a large public-private intevface (for example customs, primary
education, land titling). To ensure that capacity building activities can be adequately implemented, the
project also aims at strengthening selected local institutions that would deliver professional training and
capacity building inparticular in administrative and financial management as well as procurement. Project
support will focus on the Ecole Nationale de I'Administration de Madagascar (ENAM) and the National
Center for Administrative Training (Centre National de Formation Administrative, CNFA). Inaddition,
the project will continue to provide assistance to the institution that i s responsible for the training o fjustices
 and court personnel (Ecole Nationale de la Magistrature et des Greffes         - ENMG).     The ENMG received
 support under PAIGEP I.The project would further strengthen the institutional capacity o f ENMG, and
 provide it with the resources that it requires to improve its training facilities, enhance its training
 curriculum and deliver high quality training. In line with the government's strategy to strengthen the
 capacity for the provision o f in-country training support the project will include the establishment o f a
 Distance Learning Center inMadagascar as part o f the Global Development Learning Network.

 In addition, the project will support the establishment of a project management system for the change
 process to ensure effective implementation o f the reforms.

 Only a part o f the total financing requirements will be taken care o f under the proposed investment project.
 It is envisaged that the project will cover the funding needs during the first three years o f implementation;
 with the beginning o f the fourth year the Government will progressively take over funding o f the project
 implementation through its annual budget.        Investment lending would then mainly focus on training,
 capacity building and specialized technical advice, while modernization and recurrent costs will be
 gradually integrated into the Government's budget. With total projected costs o f US$58.0m, investment
 lending will cover US$30.0m. Future adjustment assistance under PRSCs is expected to complement the
 investment project and will ensure that the reforms continue to be implemented as planned. In case this
 budgetary assistance does not materialize a supplemental credit will continue to assist Government in
 implementing the reform agenda.




                                                        - 7 -

 Improvement o f transparency and economic governance
 Capacity buildingand strengthening o f local training               16.00        27.6        12.00        40.0  I
 institutions
 Project management                                                   3.20         5.5         1.60          5.3
 Contingencies                                                        2.10         3.6         0.80          2.7
 PPF Refinancing                                                      1.58         2.7         1.58          5.3
 Unallocated                                                          3.02         5.2         3.02        10.1
                                           Total Project Costs       58.00       100.0        30.00       100.0
                                   Total FinancingRewired            58.00       100.0        30.00       100.0

2. Key policyand institutionalreformssupportedby the project:
The project would (continue to) comprehensively reform the public finance system in Madagascar. It
would rationalize the existing procedural and institutional set-up by introducing an integrated financial
management system that would improve fiscal discipline, the predictability o f allocations and the
effectiveness of expenditure management.       The operational efficiency o f internal and external control
mechanisms and institutions will be strengthened to enhance accountability andtransparency o f government
activities. A new system for coordination, monitoring & evaluation will ensure that Government policies
are adequately implemented. Complementary reforms focus on enhancing the credibility o f the reform and
the capacity o f public institutions to design and manage complex change processes in the area o f
institutional reform.   The Ministries o f Justice, Budget and Finance will receive assistance aimed at
enhancing their capacity and operational efficiency.        In parallel, local training institutions will be
strengthened to build up capacity in areas critical for the implementation o f the reforms, and to reduce
Madagascar's dependency on overseas training.

3. Benefitsand target population:
The mainbenefits o fthe project include:

    0     Effective budget and expenditure management and control; improved efficiency in the use o f public
          resources;
    0     Reduced corruption, improved transparency and accountability o f Government operations;
          Better coordination and monitoring o f the implementation o f Government policies;
    0     Increased quality and capacity o f local training institutions, in particular in the areas o f public
          finance, general administration and monitoring & evaluation; and
    0     Improved service delivery and operational efficiency o f key Government institutions.

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:
The Government o f Madagascar through the Office o f the President and the Chief o f Staff would be
responsible for ensuring that the project i s undertaken as planned. The Government will also establish a
coordination mechanism to ensure effective coordination and implementation o f all governance related
reforms including the ones supported by this project.
The institutional arrangements for the implementation o f the project build on the experiences under



                                                      - 8 -

PAIGEP I: goveming body for the project i s the Steering Committee which consists o f the Permanent
            The
Secretaries o f all involved ministries and institutions. The Steering Committee i s chaired by a Project
Coordinator who is a seasoned and experienced practitioner. The Coordinator directly reports to the Chief
o f Staff.  The Steering Committee will coordinate the reforms and advise the Chief o f Staff in the
Presidency on design and implementation issues. The Steering Committee members are accountable for the
timely and decisive implementation o f the reforms intheir respective area o f responsibility. The day-to-day
management o f the implementation activities would be ensured by the Project Secretariat (Bureau National
du Projet, BNP) which consists o f qualified technical staff. The BNP is headedby a Director who reports
to the Project Coordinator.
The role o f the BNP and o f the Project Coordinator is to catalyze, monitor & evaluate the implementation
o f the various components and sub-components, to ensure the integration o f donor activities, to maintain
the project accounts, to manage disbursements and to publish financial and progress reports on a regular
basis.   The BNP will contract out all consultancy assignments.         At the level o f the ministries and
institutions project implementation teams would be set up to operationalize the reforms. These teams
report to the Permanent Secretary.
5. FundsFlow
The flow o f funds from IDA credit and the government i s presented as follows :



                     (Credit h d s )                 (Counterpart funds)




                                      Special Account
                                      Project Account




                                Suppliers o f goods, works and
                                services


To ensure timely and reliable flow o f funds, a special account will be opened in a local commercial bank
under conditions satisfactory to IDA. The contractors/suppliers will submit their invoices to the BNP who
will pay them after appropriate authorization and approval. The special account would be replenished on
the basis o f documentary evidence, provided to IDA by the BNP, justifying the payments made from the
account for works, goods and services that are eligible for financing under the credit. All supporting
documents will be retained by the BNP and made available for review by periodic Bank supervision
missions and external auditors.




                                                       - 9 -

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternativesconsideredandreasons for rejection:
Traditionalinvestmentloanvs. phasedapproach (APL)
The project includes complex interventions in the area o f public finance reforms which could also be
implemented in phases or through a piloting approach which constitute typical elements o f an Adaptable
Program Lending (APL). An A P L approach would, however, contribute no additional value because (i)      the
key weaknesses and deficiencies o f the public finance system are well established, and (ii)    an integrated
financial management system has already been piloted in one province. Based on these experiences the
project proposes the implementation o f the new system on a 'turn-key' basis within a fixed timefi-ame.

Investment loanvs. budget support
In principle, support to the Government could also be provided through budgetary assistance. At the
present stage, however, the weak framework for public financial management does not allow for a move
towards increasedbudgetary assistance. Consolidation and further deepening o f the reforms initiated by the
Government through technical assistance will be required to qualify Madagascar for budget support under
the planned PRSC. Once the PRSC i s inplace, investment lending will focus predominantly on specialized
technical assistance and capacity building while modemization needs and recurrent costs will be
progressively integrated into budgetary assistance.

Broadvs. narrowfocus
The project could address exclusively public finance which constitutes the key element o f the reform
agenda. Such a narrow focus would not adequately reflect key reform priorities o f the Government and the
World Bank, in particular the urgent need to operationalize legal and judicial reforms. The inclusion o f
these reforms would also allow to capitalize on the work and the achievements o f PAIGEP I.

Lengthof the project
The project has been designed for five years. Though a shorter time horizon has been considered, the
complexity o f changes that need to be addressed during implementation, particular the integration o f the
new computerized financial management system into day-to-day operations, would need sufficient time to
institutionalize. On the other hand, the implementation period should not be too long to avoid reform
fatigue.   The Project Implementation Plan will identify specific milestones and triggers to adequately
sequence interventions and monitor progress.




                                                    -10-

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                      Latest Supervision
               Sector Issue                              Project                               Ratings
                                                                                 (Bank f'inance
                                                                                       - (PSR)   irojectsonly)
                                                                                  mplementation   Development
  3ank-financed                                                                   Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)

  'ublic sector management, public         Public Management Capacity
  inance reforms, legal andjudicial        BuildingProject (P040019)      -
  eforms                                   completed, ICRperformance
                                           rating 'S' (outcome)
  jovernance, mining                       Mineral Resources Governance
                                           (P076245), new project, just
                                           approved
  konomic Policy and Governance             Second Structural Adjustment
                                            Credit (P057378)    -
                                            completed, ICRperformance
                                           rating 'SI (outcome)
  iura1development                          Rural Development Support                  S               S
                                            Project (PO5 1922)
  clommunity development                    Community Development                      S               S

                                           ,Proiect (P055166)
                                                *    ~
  Ither development agencies
  European Union                            Support to economic and public
                                            financial management,
                                            governance, judicial reform
  France                                    Support to municipal
                                            development, legal andjudicial
                                            reform, public financial
                                            management
  UNDP                                      Support to governance and
                                            anti-corruption activities,
                                            strengthening of m&e system,
                                            decentralization
  USAID                                     Support to community
                                            development, governance, legal
                                            andjudicial reform
  Germany                                   Management support to the
                                            Ministryo fFinance, communi!
                                             development
  African Development Bank                  New governance program
                                             (planned)
  Switzerland                                Inter-communal cooperation
  PlDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), I (Highly Unsati




                                                       - 11 -

3. Lessonslearnedandreflectedin the project design:
The previous Public Management Capacity Building Project (PAIGEP I)encountered significant
implementation problems and delays. Main issues included: (i)       a fragmented and complex project agenda
which lacked a clear operational focus, (ii)   a weak project management set-up without clear and decisive
leadership at both technical and political levels, (iii)  resistance to procedural and institutional change in
areas that were critical for the success o f the project, in particular the Treasury, (iv) lack o f capacity to
design and manage complex change processes, and (v) a focus on analysis rather than implementation and
tangible changes.

The proposed project design reflects the implementation difficulties encountered under PAIGEP I:The
main emphasis o f the project are comprehensive public finance reforms; the operational agenda has been
extensively discussed with the various stakeholders and agreed upon with Government.                   For the
introduction o f the integrated financial management system the Project ImplementationPlan (PIP) foresees
a carefully sequenced and prioritized roll-out. The new system will be designed and implemented on a
'turn-key' basis by an experienced intemational contractor. This contractor will be subjected to regular
quality control and independent audits. This approach will mitigate implementationrisks and management
problems which typically occur in a large-scale IT-project. To address capacity buildingconstraints and to
overcome potential resistance, significant training and awareness creation activities have been built into the
project. These activities will be complemented by regular workshops to discuss implementation problems
and concems. The project management set-up was reviewed and a number o f significant changes were
agreed upon: (i)  the project will be attached to the Presidency (under the authority of the Chief o f Staff) to
underline the critical importance o f the reforms and to ensure adequate policy coordination.          (ii)An
experienced full-time Project Coordinator has been nominated to ensure that the reforms receive the
attention they require. This Coordinator will report to the Chief o f Staff. (iii)
                                                                                 Role and composition o f the
Steering Committee have been changed. It will consist o f Permanent Secretaries and will be chaired by the
Project Coordinator. The members o f the Steering Committee have responsibility for implementation o f the
reforms in their respective areas based on an agreed action plan. (iv) The Project Coordinator will be
supported by a technical secretariat which will be further strengthened inparticular in the areas o f project
management, monitoring & evaluation and procurement.              It is envisaged to conduct regular impact
assessments and independent reviews o f the implementation progress; the findings will be discussed and the
recommendations integrated into a revised implementation plan.

4. Indicationsof borrower commitmentand ownership:
The World Bank has received strong and reassuring signals from the Government for the implementation o f
the reforms. The key aspects o f the project have been discussed in detail with the Government and other
relevant stakeholders.    All interlocutors have actively contributed to the design of the project through
discussions and concept papers which formed the basis for the scope and focus o f the project.              The
Government which is in power since 2002 has placed specific emphasis on improving govemance in
Madagascar. It has underlined that the upgrading o f the system o f public finance, better coordination and
use o f public resources, more transparency and accountability, a reduction o f corruption, and progress in
operationalizing judicial reforms are at the heart o f its agenda. The intended implementation o f the project
under the authority o f the Presidency confirms the high importance the Government attaches to the reforms;
the nomination o f the Chief o f Staff is likely to ensure the necessary leadership to decisively pushforward
an ambitious reform agenda.

5. Value added of Bank supportinthis project:
For the new Government the World Bank i s considered a key advisor inthe areas o f economic management



                                                      - 1 2 -

and poverty reduction. In the eyes o f the Government comprehensive World Bank experience with public
finance reforms will be critical for the design and implementation o f the Madagascar reforms. In this
context, the World Bank is expected to make available for Government considerable comparative
experience inparticular with regardto the integrated financial management system.
With regard to legal andjudicial reforms the World Bank is requested to complement activities of the EU
which i s the lead development partner inthis area. Moreover, a key objective o f World Bank support i s to
ensure consistency and complementarity o f assistance o f bilateral and multilateral development partners o f
Madagascar. The development partners are in broad agreement about the need to comprehensively reform
the public finance system, and to operationalize other reforms. Under the leadership of the Government
discussions have focused on identifying needs, specifying areas o f support and enhancing coordination. In
this context the role of the World Bank is to work collaboratively with other partners and the Government
to define a program o f assistance that fits the needs of the country. Finally, World Bank projects in
Madagascar cover a wide range o f activities. It can build on extensive experience inmany sectors.


E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (seeAnnex 4):
0 Costbenefit         NPV=US$ million; ERR = YO(see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other (specify)
The project is expected to significantly improve economic management inMadagascar by (i)     introducing an
integrated financial management system, which allows for compilation o f timely and reliable information on
budget allocation, commitment and actual expenditures; (ii)   reforming public procurement and reinforcing
the control mechanisms with regard to the use o f public resources; (iii)  supporting open and transparent
public management including better access to information to allow meaningful oversight and participation
in decision making; (iv) strengthening coordination, monitoring and evaluation capacity to enable the
consistent implementation o f Government policies; and (v) building capacity o f key institutions to
effectively manage and implement complex change processes.

2. Financial(see Annex 4 andAnnex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)


Fiscal Impact:
The project i s expected to have a positive fiscal impact. The introduction o f the new integrated financial
management system will strengthen public financial management and control; these interventions would
ultimately result in better use of public resources. The reform o f the public procurement system focuses
inter alia on generating more value for (public) money.          Both reforms activities would enable the
Government to make more resources available for the provision o f key social services in line with the
strategic goals and objectives o f the PRSP. In addition, the project would increase transparency and
accountability o f government operations and thus, ultimately contribute to more effective control o f
government expenditures.

3. Technical:
The proposed project design, in particular the design o f public finance reforms corresponds to financial
management, IT- and public sector standards developed in similar projects all over the world. The
integrated financial management system will be based on a modular IT-architecture which i s open for



                                                     - 1 3 -

future extension, in particular the devolvement o f responsibilities to other institutional levels o f
Government. It will also be able to cater for the specific needs o f the communes in the area o f economic
management.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:
The project will be implementedby the Presidencyunder the authority o f the Chief o f Staff who will be
advised by the Project Coordinator. The BureauNational du Projet (BNP) will continue to administrate and
supervise the project activities. This unit will be responsible for: (a) procurement, including all contracting
for works andpurchases, and the hiring o f consultants, (b) project monitoring, reporting and evaluation, (c)
the contractual relationship with IDA, and (d) financial record keeping, the Special Account and
disbursements.
4.2 Project management:
The Project Coordinator will chair the Steering Committee which consists o f the Permanent Secretaries o f
all targeted institutions. Day-to-day management o f the project will be ensured by the project
implementation unit (Bureau National du Projet, BNP) which consists o f adequate technical staff and i s
headed by a Director who reports to the Project Coordinator. The B N P has already implemented the
previous World Bank project (PAIGEP I),           its performance has been satisfactory and it was able to
effectively manage project implementation. The technical capacity o f the BNP will be further strengthened,
inparticular in the areas o f project management, monitoring & evaluation, and procurement. At the level
o f the ministries and institutions targeted by the project change management, teams will be set up to ensure
that the proposed reforms are adequately institutionalized.




                                                       - 1 4 -

                                 InstitutionalArrangements




                  Project
              mplementa
                                                                                    4 - l
                   Teams
                                                                                           Donors

             Ministry of Finance
             andBudget
          I
             Justice Ministry                                  Consultantsand
                                                                Contractors




4.3 Procurement issues:
The third Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Madagascar was conducted in November
2002, followed by a workshop inJune 2003 for the validation o f ajoint CPAWCFAA action planto ensure
rapid implementation o f procurement reforms. Key elements o f the intendedprocurement reforms are: (i)
revision o f the draft procurement code to ensure transparency, to simplify procedures, and to comply with
international standards, (ii)establishment o f effective procurement institutions to ensure that the new
regulations will be adequately applied and to provide sufficient oversight and control and to improve
efficiency through adequate delegation o f responsibilities, and (iii)implementation o f adequate training and
capacity building to ensure the sustainability o f the procurement reforms. The existing Procurement Code
o f 1998 will continue to be applied until the enactment o f the new code. The World Bank ascertained that
deficient features identified in the 1995 CPAR have been properly addressed. IDA standard bidding
documents (SBDs) are widely used. An area o f concern, however, i s the cumbersome and overly
bureaucratic approval process for contract signing by the Government which causes unnecessary delays. In
addition,   insufficient programming and procurement planning contribute to delays in project
implementation which results in slow disbursement. To mitigate risks o f delays for the proposed project,
proper prerequisites for the use o f Bank standard bidding documents, including evaluation reports for
National Competitive Bidding procedures (NCB) have been agreed upon with Government during



                                                     -15-

negotiations. The procedures manual will be updated as a part o f the Project Implementation Plan.

A Procurement Capacity Assessment of the BNP, including training needs and arrangements, was
conducted as part o f the project preparation. On the basis o f the initial assessment, an action plan was
drafted to address areas where the BNP needs to be strengthened.              The action plan includes: (i)the
recruitment of a procurement officer; (ii)    a specific section on procurement in the Project Implementation
Manual to be finalized before Credit effectiveness; (iii)    the organization o f the filing o fprocurement-related
documents; (iv) procurement training sessions for project staff; and (v) the financing o f independent
procurement and technical audits to be carried out on a regular basis (see Annex 6 for details).           Since a
large portion o f the Credit funds will be used for technical assistance and consulting assignments, early
attention will be given to advance planning o f recruitment and timely search for expressions o f interest
through international advertising to obtain the best possible pool o f candidates from which strong short lists
can be compiled.
4.4 Financialmanagement issues:
The financial management arrangements o f the BNP (Bureau National du Projet) responsible for the
implementation o f the Govemance & Institutional Development Project have been reviewed to determine
their adequacy with the Bank requirements. The review recommended the implementation o f some
corrective actions to strengthen the project's financial management system and to build its capacity to
produce quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) with the designed format provided inthe Annex A
o f the FMRs Guidelines for World Bank-financed Projects. Among the measures to be implemented are the
following: (i) review o f the project's Chart o f accounts to reflect components and activities outlined in the
PAD to satisfy reporting requirements; (ii) o f the current accounting manual o f procedures in order
                                                update
to include the new organizational structure, the new chart o f accounts, the outline o f the new financial
management system to be used by the project including the content and format o f the quarterly FMRs to be
submitted to IDA; (iii)recruitment o f a consultant in charge of the design and implementation o f a
computerized system to allow the timely production o f financial reports required for managing and
monitoring project activities; and (iv) recruitment o f an accounting firm acceptable to IDA to audit the
project accounts.
5. Environmental:                             EnvironmentalCategory: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and E M P preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
d a
5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
d a
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                      Date o f receipt o f final draft: n/a
d a
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts andproposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
d a
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives andresults o f the EMP?
d a



                                                         - 1 6 -

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
To date, the economic management process i s to a large extent organized as an administrative exercise with
only a marginal role o f stakeholders outside the administration.      Consequently, other stakeholders, in
particular Parliament do not actively participate inmonitoring public spending and evaluating government's
performance. The project intends to open the door for a more pro-active participation o f Parliament in the
economic management process. It foresees some initial support to Parliament to allow for a meaningful
participation inthe debate about public expenditures.

Inthe area o f legal andjudicial reform a key objective is to expedite civil and commercial law proceedings
to improve the credibility and the reliability o f the judiciary as well as the delivery o f services for the
relevant groups o f the society.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
The project design reflects the need to build internal and external support for the different components o f
the reform agenda. Lessons learnt from previous operations indicate that a lack o f ownership and a
"donor-driven" approach to technical assistance significantly affect the achievement o f sustainable results.
Consequently, all key stakeholders have been involved in the development o f the project.           Extensive
consultations took place with public servants, public managers, Parliament, civil society organizations and
other donors to determine scope and focus o f the interventions.         It is envisaged to keep these key
stakeholders actively involved during the implementation o f the reform agenda. To this end, project funds
will be made available to support a wide range o f stakeholder activities (workshops, focus groups, surveys,
studies, fora etc.). This consultation process which will be complemented by a systematic analysis will
assess progress and impact of the reform process, identify potential problems and conflicts and design
strategies to maintain support.
6.3 H o w does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The intended support for the Ministry o f Justice will entail funding for consultation with civil society
organizations, to identify problems andbottlenecks inthe area o f legal andjudicial reforms.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
To ensure that the intended reforms achieve the development objectives significant resources for monitoring
& evaluation have been built into the project. These activities will be complemented by review and impact
assessment to adequately measure reform progress.
6.5 H o w will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
During project implementation the reform progress will be subject to regular independent audits and
evaluations.   The findings o f these studies will be made public to initiate follow-up discussions and to
enable an adequate adjustment process.        At institution level, mechanisms for internal feedback and
opportunities for process innovations (quality circles, focus groups etc.) will be established to increase
motivation and to provide feedback to the reform process.




                                                    - 1 7 -

7. SafeguardPolicies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.

d a


F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Critical factors for the sustainability o f project benefits are:

   0     Degree of government'scommitment during the implementationof the project
         Despite the high risk to implement such complex reform program continuous government's
         commitment is expected because o f the broad consensus about the need to comprehensively reform
         the existing system o f public finance and to significantly strengthen the accountability framework.

   0     Capacity to effectively managethe project implementation
         Inlightofthe implementationdifficulties under PAIGEP Ia significant effort has beenmade to
         ensure that new project will not face similar problems: Project implementationwill be based on a
         carehlly sequenced action plan with clearly identified milestones which will be independently
         monitored and evaluated. To assess the performance o f the project implementation team, a
         particular emphasis will be put on tangible results to be achieved within a specific timeframe which
         would allow necessary adjustments incase o f delays and other implementation difficulties.

   0     Capacity andincentivesto institutionalizethe project
         The project will put a heavy burden on the administrative capacity o f the government machinery to
         effectively deal with the significant changes triggered by the introduction o f an entirely different
         public expenditure management system.             The targeted institutions will need to dedicate a
         substantial amount o f their (rather limited) administrative capacities to integrate the new system
         into the existing institutional structures and procedures. To address these challenges a significant
         amount o f training and capacity building has been built into the project to ensure that the changes
         introduced by the reforms can be adequately dealt with. With PPF funding a comprehensive
         training needs assessment and a review o f the capacity o f local training institutions have been
         conducted to ensure that the implementation o f the reforms does not face major capacity building
         constraints.




                                                       - 1 8 -

         Degree of government'scommitmentbeyond the implementation of the project
         The govemment will need to ensure sustainability o f the reforms beyond the implementation o f the
         project. The govemment will ensure that the costs for modemization, further equipment, training
         and capacity required to maintain and sustain the reforms will be integrated into the annual budget
         when financing under the project i s coming to an end.

         Buildingenduring ownership and support
         While ownership and support for the different components o f the project are strong, the
         government must ensure that this support is adequately maintained during and beyond the
         implementation o f the project. Complex systemic and institutional changes which are part o f the
         reform agenda will only be effective if they are widely publicized, accepted and integrated into
         day-to-day operations. This is particularly important for the new public procurement legislation
         which needs to be decisively enforced. With regard to the systemic changes, the government will
         monitor their effectiveness on a regular basis - preferably based on periodic independent
         evaluations. At the institutional level mechanisms for feedback and opportunities for process
         innovations (quality circles, focus groups etc.) need to be established to guarantee ownership and
         provide upward feedback to management about the viability o f the reforms.

2. Critical Risks(reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
The program carries highrisk (see detailed risk assessment below); it poses a significant challenge for the
Government because o f the complexity of the changes triggered by the project and the substantive capacity
building needs to ensure success and sustainability o f the reforms.        To mitigate the risks the project
foresees significant upfront investments in local training and capacity building. In addition, the integrated
financial management system will be implemented on a turn-key basis by an experienced contractor to
avoid typical problems o f large-scale IT introduction.

                    Risk                           Risk Rating                 Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Political commitment to implement the                   M          Continued high-level dialogue with G o M to
PRSP is not maintained                                             reconfirm commitment
From Components to Outputs
Lack o f leadership seriously undermines                M          Continued high-level dialogue to stress the need
the implementation o f the project                                 for political leadership o f reforms

Stakeholders and public sector agencies                 H          Buildintemal and external support for change
are not responsive to changes; they do not                         process; ensure stakeholder participation during
sufficiently collaborate                                           design and implementationo f reform program

Resistance and delays endanger the                      H          Buildintemal support for change process
envisagedreforms; compliance with new                              through comprehensive training and capacity
institutional and procedural framework i s                         building;enforce sanctions for noncompliance
low

Capacity (managerial, staff,                            H          Buildinto the reformprogramcomprehensive
administrative, technical) to implement                            training, capacity building, coaching and
complex reforms not adequate                                       specialized technical assistance; provide
                                                                   incentives for staff & manager who can act as
                                                                   multipliers; strengthen quality and capacity o f


                                                      - 19-

                                                                   local training institutions

Capacity to implement and manage the                  H            Implement new system on a "turn-key" basis;
new integrated financial management                                complement implementation with significant
system not sufficient                                              training, capacity building, coaching and
                                                                   specialized technical assistance
Overall Risk Rating                                   H


FMRiskAnalysis

           Risks                  Riskrating                  RiskMitigationMeasures
AccountingPolicies            Moderate                Reviewof the currentChart o f accounts and
andProcedures                I                        update of the accountingmanual of
                                                      proceduresto satisfy reportingrequirements
                                                      (FMRs).
ExternalAudit                 Substantial            - Local auditors who intendto audit the
                                                       financial statementsof Bank financed
                                                      projects were invitedto enter into
                                                      partnershipwith internationalauditing
                                                     - firm to strengthentheir capacity.
                                                       Recruitmentof auditors basedon
                                                     - QCBSmethod;of
                                                       Reinforcement the accountingprofession
                                                       after the completionofthe ROSCmission.
MonitoringandReporting        Moderate                The reportingsystem needs to be reviewedto
                                                       meet Bank requirements.The introductionof
                                                       FMR reporting will require some actions:
                                                       update of      the accounting manual of
                                                       procedures, implementationof an appropriate
                                                       computerizedsystemanduserstraining.
InformationSystems             Moderate                Design and implementation o f a          new
                                                       computerizedsystem by a consultant to allow
                                                       timely production of financial information
                                                       includingFMRs.


3. PossibleControversialAspects:
The enhanced control mechanisms introduced by the reforms (in particular with the integrated financial
management system) can initially meet some resistance in the public sector. Similarly, the introduction o f
the new procurement code which will change the existing "rules o f the game" and interfere with
well-established "spheres o f influence" i s likely to be opposed at some levels o f the public sector. To
effectively overcome initial resistance comprehensive capacity building and awareness creation activities
are built into the project. The government is also aware that new rules, procedures and guidelines must be
decisively enforced to ensure compliance.




                                                     - 20 -

G. Main Credit Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
(i) Borrowerhasopenedaprojectaccountanddepositedcounterpartfundtherein; and
   The
(ii) BorrowerhasputinplaceanaccountingandfinancialsystemfortheprojectacceptabletoIDA.
    The

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]

Financial Covenants
(i)TheProjectImplementationUnit(BureauNationaZduProjet,BNP)willmaintainorcausetobe
maintainedrecords and accounts to reflect inaccordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures;
(ii) records, accounts,specialaccounts,SOEsshallbeauditedbyindependentauditorsacceptableto
    the
IDA; and
(iii) BNPwillproducequarterlyFMRs.
     the

H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocumentsforthefirstyear's activitiesarecomplete andreadyforthestart
         o f project implementation.
Kl 1.b)Notapplicable.

ixI2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the start of
       project implementation.
IXI 3. The Project ImplementationPlanhas beenappraisedand found to be realistic and o f satisfactory
       quality.
0 4. Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions (Section G):



I. Compliance with Bank Policies
iXi 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
02. ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
       all other applicable Bank policies.

                                                                  -



 Team Leader                              Sector Manager




                                                    -21  -

                                  Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                MADAGASCAR: Governance and Institutional Development Project



iector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:               Sector/ country reports:     from Goal to Bank Mission)
Iigher and more             3verall poverty rate declines    ?overty mapping, pro-poor    lasic economic and relevant
ustainable rates of         kom presently 69% to 60% in ;urveys, statistical data.        olitical stability maintained.
conomic growth that reach l008.
he poor; improved delivery
if basic servicesin key
ocial sectors.



'roject Development         3utcome I Impact                 Project reports:             from Objective to Goal)
Ibjective:                   ndicators:
To assist the Government of ?RSP implementation              Progress reports on PRSP     3overnment's commitment to
vladagascar (GM) in         xogresses as projected.          implementation.              mplement the PSRP
mplementingthe Poverty                                                                    naintained.
ieduction Strategy Paper
PRSP).
                            [ncreasedpro-poor allocation Annual budget, expenditure
                             s f public resources.           tracking surveys.
                                                             Qualitative audit o f the
                                                             policies made by Government
                                                             against the PRSP strategic
                                                             objectives.




htput from each             Output Indicators:               Project reports:             from Outputs to Objective)
:omponent:
I. Reliableandtimely budget Specific indicators allow for    Annual reviews, analysis o f 'olitical environment
mdexpenditure information   tracking budget execution        viability o f indicators     irovides strong leadership anc
s readily available to key                                                                :ontinues to actively support
itakeholders for strategic                                                                he implementation process.
lecision making purposes.
                            Treasury submits statement o f Report submitted by Treasury. Stakeholders, public sector
                            monthly accounts and                                          gencies, beneficiaries, and
                            commitments by the 15th o f                                   he political level are
                            the following month.                                          .esponsive to the envisaged
                                                                                          :hanges, they collaborate and
                                                                                          mcourage the implementatior
                                                                                          ifthe reforms.
                            Treasury submits final           Final accounts submittedby
                            accounts within 6 months         Treasury.
                            after the end o f the fiscal year
                            to the Auditor General.

                            Auditor General submits          Audited accounts submitted   Decisive Government actions


                                                          -22 -

                               iuditedaccounts and "lois de     )y Auditor General.             r i l l be taken to overcome
                               reglement" by November 15                                       :sistance or delays in
                               o f the following year to                                       nplementation the envisaged
                               Parliament                                                       dministrative, financial,
                                                                                                istitutional andjudicial
                                                                                                :forms.


,. Accountability and          Internal and external control
ransparency o f Government     and audit services publish       Reports and evaluations.
lperations has improved        regular reports identifying      [nternal and external audit
                               bottlenecks.                     *eports.

                               Governance efforts lead to a     Transparency International
                               reduction o f corruption (as     Clorruption Perception Index.
                               measured by the Transparency
                               International Corruption
                               Perception Index).

                               Compliance with rules and        Annual Report.
                               regulations as well as
                               sanctions are systematically
                               enforced as evidenced by an
                               annual report issued by the
                               Anti-Corruption Commission.

1 .Government's strategy to     Justice reform strategy         Strategy document
estore credibility o f the      validated by relevant
udiciary developed;             stakeholders.
mplementation o f the strategy
ias begun.
                                Processing o f civil and        Independent audit.
                                commercial law cases
                                expeditedbased on new
                                service/case load standards.

                                Law reform program adopted Annual progress reports.
                                andprogressively
                                implemented.

 . Capacity o fkey institutions Capacity buildingplans          2uarterly progress reports;
I  manage change effectively    developed and implemented fc    annual independent
trengthened; local training     the Ministries o f Justice,     :valuations o f operational
istitutions upgraded.           Budget and Finance.             :fficiency o f the respective
                                                                institutions.
                                Training quality and capacity   Quarterly progress report,
                                o f ENMG, ENAM and CNFA annual independent
                                improved.                       :valuations.

                                Development Learning Center Progress reports, annual
                                operational, training program independent evaluation.
                                validated.




                                                            - 23 -

                                                                                                                   -.
                              iputs: (budget for each     roject reports:              from Componentsto
                              omponent)                                                lutputs)
1. Improvementof             JS$32.lm(see Annex 2 for     Ionthly progress reports o f Capacity to implement
transparency and economic     etails).                    nplementing agencies.        :omplex reforms is available.


1.1 Development and                                                                    toll-out o f new integrated
Implementationof an                                                                    'Inancial management system
integratedfinancial                                                                     o all 22 ministries i s
managementsystem.                                                                      Iroceeding as scheduled.
                                                          .nnual independent
- Conceptual design of the                                valuations & impact          Zapacity to effectively
new systemcompleted and                                   ssessments.                  nanage complex new budget
                                                                                       system is available.
                                                          ,udit reports publishedby
- Site preparation finalized                              iternal/external control     Yew structures, systems and
                                                          istitutions.                 xocesses are used.
- Wide-area network inplace.
                                                                                       Rules and regulations are
- Training of relevant staff                                                           idequately applied,
                                                                                       non-application will be dealt
                                                                                       with accordingly.
- Facilities management
                                                                                       Sufficient number o f trained
                                                                                       staff remained inkey
- Hardware procured and                                                                positions.

                                                                                       Government institutions are
- Legislative framework                                                                responsive to changes.
reviewed and amended.
                                                                                       Reformproposals are
                                                                                       developed and implemented
                                                                                       based on a participatory
                                                                                       approach to generate and
                                                                                       maintain necessary
                                                                                        stakeholder support.

                                                                                        Communication and
                                                                                        collaboration between key
                                                                                        stakeholders i s effective and
                                                                                        constructive.

                                                                                        Donor collaboration in
                                                                                        particular inthe area of publil
                                                                                        finance remains efficient.

                                                                                        Government progressively
                                                                                        integrates recurrent costs into
                                                                                        the annual budget.
 1.2 Strengtheningof
 internaland external


                                                     - 24 -

control mechanisms.

-1.2.1  Strengtheningof IGE
   Organizationand
institutional framework
reviewedandadjusted.
- New operating manuals in
place.
- Modernization and training
completed.

1.2.2 Establishmentof IGF
- Conceptual framework for
IGF developed.
- IGF established and
operational.
- Basic equipment procured
andtraining completed.

 1.2.3 Strengtheningof the
 -Brigade du Trksor
    Transformationinto a
 directoratefinalized.
 - Modernization and training
 completed.

 -1.2.4 Strengtheningof CDE
    Organizationaland
 institutional framework
 reviewedand adjusted.
 - Modernization and training
 completed.

 1.2.5 Strengtheningof Cour
 des Comptes
 - Standardizedprocedures
 and auditing techniques
 developed.
 - Modernization and training
 completed.
 - Collaborationwith external
 auditors definedand
 operationalized.

  1.2.6 Operationalize
 DisciplinaryCommission
 - Regulatoryframework
 validated.
  - Training completed.

  1.2.7 Strengthening
  ParliamentaryOversight
  - Training and capacity
  building completed


                                 - 25 -

- Basic equipment procured.

 .3 Completionof
 rocurementreforms.
 New procurement legislation
 pproved.
    Revised institutional
 .amework operational.


 .4 Strengthening change
 nanagement, coordinating,
 nonitoring& evaluation.
    M&E system operational at
 l e Presidency.
    Coordination mechanisms
 3 place.
    Anti-corruption strategy
 lefined.
    Equipmentprocured.
    Training and capacity
 uilding completed.

 !.Capacitybuildingand          S$16.0 m(see Annex 2 for donthly progress reports of
 itrengthening of local         etails)                  implementing agencies.
 raininginstitutions.

 !.l  Support for the                                    Supervision missions.
 Ministryof Budgetand
 Finance                                                 Beneficiary assessments &
 . Institutional audit                                    surveys.
 :ompleted.
 . New institutional                                     Annual independent
 urangements and operating                                evaluations & impact
 nanuals inplace.                                         assessments.
 . Trainingandcapacity
 milding finalized.

 2.2 Support for the
 Ministry of Justice.
 -  Justice reform strategy
 defined, inparticular
 expedition of civil and
 commercial law proceedings.
 - New service standards and
 evaluations methods
 operational.
 --- Judicial Services.
     Inspectorate strengthened.
     Training and modernizatio
 completed.

 2.3 Pilot service delivery



                                                      - 26 -

nprovement
Services with large
ublic-private interface
ientified
 Strategy developed and
nplement to improve
fficiency o f service delivery

.4 Strengtheningof local
raininginstitutions.

 .4.1 Support for ENMG
  Modemization of new
iuilding completed.
   New curricula and training
naterials developed.
   Training o f trainers
.ompleted.
   Training fund for Justice
)ersonnel operational.

!.4.2 Support for ENAM
   New curricula and training
 naterial developed.
    Organizational
 ,estmcturing of ENAM
 :ompleted.
 . Core group o f trainers
 .ecruited and trained.
 . Modernization o f facilities
 :ompleted.

 2.4.3 Supportfor CNFA
 .New curricula and training
 naterial developed
 .Training facilities upgraded
 mdmodemized
 -- Professional staff trained
    Training fund for technical
 staff established

 2.5 Establishmentof a
 DevelopmentLearning
 Center
 - D L C infrastructure set up
 and operational.
 -- Staff recruited and trained.
    Initial D L C training
 program developed.
 - Monitoring & evaluation
 systeminplace.

  3. EffectiveProject            JS%3.2m (see Annex 2 for   Progressreports o f



                                                       - 27 -

Management System in           etails.       .mplementing agencies.
place.
. BNP operational, necessary                 Work and procurementplan
staff recruited.                             ipproved by BNP Steering
- Oversight and control                      Committee.
system (at the Presidency and
Ministryof Budget and                        Monthly progress reports.
Finance) inplace, necessary
staff recruited.
-                                            Procurement and
  Project monitoring and                     disbursement reports
evaluation system operational.
-                                            (quarterly).
  Communication and public
information strategy                         Annual surveys and
implemented.                                 independent evaluations to
- Surveys/questionnaires and                 measure impact/progress o f
evaluations to measure impact                the reforms.
designed and implemented.




                                          - 28 -

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
               MADAGASCAR: Governance and Institutional Development Project

By Component:

Project Component 1. Improvement of transparency and economic governance        - US$32.10  million
The strengths and weaknesses o f Madagascar's budget and expenditure management system have been
subject to numerous studies over the last years. Key problems include complex, non-transparent and time
consuming procedural arrangements with often unclear or overlapping roles and responsibilities at the
institutional levels, lack o f capacity as well as weak internal and external control mechanisms. Hence,
budget execution is inefficient and subject to significant delays.

Initial reforms focused primarily on streamlining and rationalizing the rules and regulations governing
public expenditure management, on capacity building and training and on integrating various administrative
functions to improve efficiency and effectiveness. These reforms have been supported by the World Bank
Public Management Capacity BuildingProject (PAIGEP I) closed in December 2002. Considerable
                                                               which
progress was made to simplify the expenditure circuit, improve budgetary reporting, and computerize key
elements o f the budget execution system. Overall resource allocation, however, didnot improve. Based on
a comprehensive reform o f the budget classification system and the introduction o f a new chart o f accounts
the quality, frequency, availability and timeliness o f budgetary and accounting information has somewhat
improved. The backlog in the production o f final accounts (and their submission to the Auditor General)
has been reduced from 8 years in 1995 to 2 years in2002.

While these reforms have been important first steps much remains to be done, however, to bring
Madagascar's public finance system to international standards. A main bottleneck is, for example, the
Treasury Department whose operational efficiency and transparency is low. The recently completed CFAA
has confirmed the need to decisively continue the implementation o f public finance and broader economic
governance reforms.

The Government has committed itself to enhance and further deepen previous reforms. The Government
has identified key priority areas in which World Bank support has been requested. These areas include (i)
 the development and introduction o f an integrated financial management system for the central government
 to improve operational efficiency o f budget and expenditure management, (ii) the strengthening o f internal
 and external control mechanisms to improve oversight andenforce compliance, (iii)   the reform o f the public
 procurement system to ensure its conformity with international standards, and (iv) the improvement o f
 change management, coordination, monitoring & evaluation to ensure consistency and efficiency o f policy
 implementation.

 Project Component 1.I Implementation of an integrated public financial management system US$25.00
                                                                                              -
 million
 Objective o f the development o f an Integrated Public Financial Management System (Systkme Intkggrk de
 Gestion des Finances Publiques, SIGFP) is to provide timely, accurate and up-to-date information on
 budget allocations, commitments and actual expenditures. Key components o f such a system include (i)       a
 budget preparation sub-system which would standardize the preparation o f the annual budget, (ii)   a budget
 execution and expenditure management sub-system to monitor and account for revenues and public
 expenditures, and (iii)reporting and control sub-systems to ensure transparency, accountability, and
 compliance with the budget or with existing regulations that govern public expenditure management. The
 three different functions o f budget preparation, budget implementation and accounting will be integrated
 into an uniform IT-system providing up-to-date access to and information about all relevant budgetary


                                                      - 29 -

processes. Following international best practices, the system will be based on an open, module-based
client-server-architecture which allows for future enhancement and adjustment o f financial control and
oversight. It would also interface with other systems already in place (customs, revenue agencies). The
integrationwill provide managers with tools to plan, manage, and control public resources.

A major input for the design of the new system will be the financial management system that has been
piloted in the province o f Toamasina (with assistance under PAIGEP I).      This system has been developed
to serve the needs o f the administration at the provincial level. A validation process for this system is
presently ongoing (with PPF funding) which will determine to what extent this system can serve as the
basis for the development o f a country-wide financial management system.

The new financial management system will require significant investments in equipment, IT infrastructure,
training and capacity building. It will include all actors, country-wide, who are involved in budget
preparation and monitoring, expenditure management, income collection and financial reporting. When
completed, it would consists o f 1,800 work stations which are integrated into a single country-wide
network.

The implementation o f the new system will pose a major challenge inparticular to the Ministry o f Finance.
Experience in other countries indicates that it i s more efficient to contract out the responsibility o f
implementing the design and installation o f the integrated financial management system to an experienced
international company. This "turn-key" solution i s standard practice in the private sector for large IT
projects to avoid typical implementation problems o f complex projects. Under this arrangement the "lead"
contractor would be in charge o f designing, prioritizing, sequencing and supervising all project components
including the procurement o f goods and services. The work o f the "lead" contractor would be subjected to
regular quality controls and independent audits.

An assessment o f all existing systems and equipment has been conducted with PPF funding, together with a
(fully costed) needs assessment and a feasibility study for the wide-area network. The findings o f this
preparatory work form the basis for the subsequent cost estimates. Funding under the project will be
provided for goods and equipment, inparticular in soft and hardware (US$17.0 million); the installation o f
 a wide-area network (US$l .O million); consultants services including specialized training and IFMIS
project management (US$2.0 million); rehabilitation and maintenance o f offices for IT equipment (US$5.0
million).

 Project Component 1.2 Strengthening of internal and external control mechanism US$4.10 million
                                                                                    -
 To bring the system o f public finance to international standards Madagascar will need to improve the
 operational efficiency o f the institutions that provide fiduciary oversight and control.    In Madagascar,
 which follows the francophone "model", these institutions include: the General Government Inspectorate
 (Inspection GenCrale de 1'Etat - IGE), the Commitment Control (Controle des Depenses EngagCes, CDE),
 the intemal control cadre o f the Treasury (Brigade du Tresor), the Auditor General (Cour des Comptes)
 and the (presently non-existent) general internal control cadre (Inspection GCnCrale des Finances - IGF).

 Significant analytical work has been completed to identify the problems and bottlenecks in the area o f
 fiduciary oversight: In 1998, the IMF analyzed the public finance system. In 1999, the Government
 commissioned a comprehensive review o f the oversight mechanisms with support by the European Union.
 In2001, the European Union undertook another in-depth analysis of the public expenditure system. The
 recommendations o f these reviews, o f the Government work group (Cellule de REiforme et de Renforcement
 des Organes de Contrdle, CRROC) together with the findings o f the recently completed CFAA form the
 basis for the proposed reforms. Work i s under way to develop a sequenced and prioritized implementation


                                                     - 30 -

plan.

1.2.1. GeneralGovernment Inspectorate (Inspection Gknkrale de Z'Etat, IGE) (US$l.O million)
The main function o f IGE is the internal audit o f the executive branch. In the francophone system it
represents the highest internal audit authority complementing the internal audit service at the level o f the
Ministry of Finance (IGF) and the internal control system of the Treasury (Brigarde du TrCsor) and the
sector ministries (contraleur financier).    In Madagascar, the IGE is attached to the Presidency. At the
national level, IGE includes a general directorate, four task forces and a number o f departments; at the
level o f the autonomous provinces, it includes six inter-regional directorates.        IGE which has a total
workforce o f 112 currently has 28 inspectors and 12 auditors.

Key problems and weaknesses o f IGE include: (i)        the role and operational objectives o f IGE need to be
clarified. The present design could confuse the fiduciary role o f IGE with a broader monitoring &
evaluation role. The CFAA recommends to shift the fiduciary responsibilities o f IGE to a newly created
IGF and to reduce the function o f IGEto a monitoring & evaluation function inthe Presidency. There is
need to revisit the role and responsibilities o f IGE and its relationship with other internal/extemal oversight
institutions, (ii)  the operational efficiency o f IGE i s weak due to lack o f resources and skilled personnel.
Audit manuals andprocedures are outdated and require fundamental revision. IGEis presently not able to
adequately fulfill even basic auditing or monitoring functions.

To address some o f the existing problems funds were made available by the Government to cover basic
equipment and human resources needs (in particular recruitment o f 34 new government inspectors). In
addition, operational manuals were developed to clarify the role and responsibility o f IGE and its oversight
activities. The European Union i s providing some assistance to improve the operational efficiency o f IGE;
this assistance will come to an end in 2003. World Bank support will complement these initial activities
and is aimed at consolidating the role o f IGE in line with the recommendations o f the CFAA. Support will
focus on organizational development (US$50,000),              additional operational manuals (US$170,000),
modernization and equipment (US$120,000) as well as training and capacity building(US$660,000).

1.2.2. General InternalAudit Cadre (Inspection Gknkrale des Finances) (US$0.2m)
To strengthen the existing framework o f internal control in Madagascar and to ensure adequate inspections
o f the use o f all public resources, the CFAA has recommended the establishment o f a general internal audit
cadre (Inspection GenCrale des Finances) in the Ministry o f Finance. To avoid a duplication o f the role and
responsibility o f IGF and IGE it is envisaged to transfer some o f the fiduciary responsibilities from IGE to
the newly created IGF. IGF would then have primary responsibility for the internal audit o f the executive
branch while IGE, which is attached to the Presidency, would focus on a broader monitoring & evaluation
role. It is envisaged that IGF would have about 15 audit specialists who would closely liaise with other
control institutions to establish a comprehensive and effective system o f internal audit and control in
Madagascar.

The project will assist Government in operationalizing the recommendations o f the CFAA. Support would
focus on specialized technical assistance to develop and set-up the procedural and institutional framework
o f IGF (US$lOO,OOO), some basic equipment (USS50,OOO) as well as training and capacity building
(US$50,000).

1.2.3.Internal ControlCadre of the Treasury(Brigarde du Trksor) (US$OSm)
The main function o f the Brigarde du TrCsor is to ensure that expenditure management regulations are
adequately applied in the treasury department. It evaluates on a regular basis the work o f accounting
officers at the national and regional treasuries and performs special reviews on request by the treasury


                                                       -31 -

management. The internal control cadre, which was established in 1999, has only 12 staff. It i s attached to
the Permanent Secretary o f the Ministry o f Finance. Since the creation o f the Brigarde du Tresor cases o f
misappropriation and misuse o f funds by the treasury have been significantly reduced.

Key problems and weaknesses o f the unit include: (i) to lack o f resources the Brigarde du TrBsor has
                                                           due
not been able to perform its regular control functions; the work o f accounting officers i s not evaluated on a
regular basis. It i s estimated that about 30 specialists would be necessary to cover the basic control needs;
and (ii)  the role and responsibilities o f the Brigarde du TrCsor needs to be clarified in light with the
recommendations o f the CFAA. This would include the transformation o f the Brigarde du TrCsor into a
directorate and the extension o f its control competences to include public institutions and the accounting
officers o f the rural communities

World Bank support would focus on training and capacity building (US$250,000), some basic equipment
(US$150,000) and targeted technical assistance, in particular in the area o f organizational development
(us$loo,ooo).

1.2.4. Commitment Control (Contr6ledes Dkpenses Engagkes: CDE) (TJS$l.O million)
The key function o f CDE, which is attached to the Presidency, i s to ensure the fiduciary control o f
commitments initiated by ministries, departments and agencies inthe context o f the execution o f the annual
budget (followed by control o f legal compliance by the public accountant prior to payment).          CDE's a
priori oversight focuses on approving all commitments made by government services (Titres d'Engagement
Financier: TEF). CDE may also intervene at a later stage by performing oversight o f services rendered.
Complementary a posteriori oversight i s handled by IGE, which monitors adequate use o f public resources.
CDE includes a general directorate, central commissions attached to the ministries, inter-regional
commissions attached to the six autonomous provinces and inspection posts attached to the former
prefectures representing seven financial districts. CDE employs 40 government inspectors, 28 auditors and
360 support staff. With its limited staff CDE is supposed to validate the commitments o f the 32 ministries,
six autonomous provinces and 18 prefectures.

Key problems and weaknesses include: (i) attachment o f CDE to the Presidency confuses its fiduciary
                                              the
role with a broader monitoring & evaluation function. The CFAA recommends the integration o f CDE into
the Ministry o f Finance in line with the "traditional"        fiancophone institutional set-up; and (ii)the
operational efficiency o f CDE is hampered by lack o f resources and skilled personnel. Consequently, CDE
has not been able to adequately fulfill its control functions.

Some measures were taken by the Government in 2001 to improve the functioning o f CDE; 10 additional
government auditors and 45 contractual agents were recruited and miscellaneous equipment was provided
as a first step to improve CDE services. Inconnection with efforts to expedite control process the European
Union has provided some basic support for modernization and the development o f a new operational
manual.

IDA support will focus on strengthening the operational efficiency o f CDE through training and capacity
building (US$600,000), further modernization and equipment (US$250,000) as well as targeted technical
assistance to refine the role and function o f the institution (US$150,000).




                                                       - 32 -

1.2.5. Auditor General (Chambre/Cour des Comptes) (US$1.1million)
The Auditor General's main function is to perform annual independent audits o f government accounts, as
well as management audits o f public institutions and enterprises. The Auditor General (Chambre des
Comptes) was transformed into a Revenue Court (Cour des Comptes) in November 2001 as part o f the
reorganization o f the Supreme Court. The Revenue Court comprises at least three specialized chambers:
the Oversight Chamber for the Government budget, the Oversight Chamber for the autonomous provinces,
public institutions o f administrative nature (Etablissements Publics Li Caractdue Administratif EPA) and
decentralized territorial subdivisions (court o f appeal), and the Oversight Chamber for Public Enterprises.
The financial tribunals, which are the extension o f the Revenue Court in the autonomous provinces, judge
the administrative accounts of the decentralized territorial subdivisions and perform a posteriori oversight
o f the actions o f these subdivisions.

For many years, the audits o f government activities were neglected. For the fiscal years 1978-1992 and
1972-1977 the Government was exempted from producing final public accounts. Since 1993 some final
accounts were produced but the lack o f resources o f the Auditor General has led to a significant backlog in
producing audited accounts.         Presently, the treasury accounts o f the year 1998 are under review.
Similarly, the Auditor General was not able to fulfill its function vis-&vis other government institutions or
public enterprises. Inthe past, the majority o f these institutions did not submit their accounts for review as
required by the law. Under the new Government compliance with reporting requirements has improved but
remains deficient.

To improve operational efficiency o f the Auditor General the Government in 2001 provided MGF 600
million in investment credits and MGF 2.1 billion from HIPC funds, which were used for some basic
equipment and to rehabilitate the Auditor General's headquarters. In addition, 12 new magistrates were
recruited in 2001; thus increasing the workforce to 17 financial magistrates.           Additional training o f
qualified candidates is ongoing. France supported the establishment o f Financial Courts o f Fianarantsoa
and Mahajanga as a first step to make operational oversight functions inthe autonomous provinces.

World Bank support will focus on improving the operational efficiency o f the Auditor General. Inline with
the recommendations o f the CFAA it will also assist Government to revisit the procedural and institutional
set-up to ensure greater independence o f the Auditor General (the relationship between the Audit General
on the one hand and the Supreme Court and the Ministry o f Justice on the other hand causes some
concerns). Support will include training and capacity buildingo f (existing andnewly recruited) magistrates
(US$500,000),       some modernization (US$250,000)       and targeted technical assistance in the area o f
institutional and procedural development aimed at standardizing procedures and auditing techniques
(US$150,000). The project will also provide assistance to the Auditor General to contract out independent
audits (US$200,000).

 1.2.6. DisciplinaryCommission(Conseil de Discipline FinunciBre et Budgetuire) (US$O.l million)
In 1998, the Government established a Commission to enforce fiscal and budgetary discipline (Conseil de
Discipline Financikre et Budgetaire). The main function o f the commission i s to investigate violations o f
public finance regulations and to issue appropriate sanctions. Since its inception, the commission has not
been operational due to lack o f resources, uncertainty about its mandate and competences and a weak
regulatory framework which lacks clear operational guidelines.             The CFAA has recommended to
 adequately staff and make operational the commission.           The commission will be placed under the
jurisdiction o f the Auditor General because o f its far-reaching authority.

World Bank support would assist Government in implementing the recommendations o f the CFAA.
 Assistance would focus on training and capacity building (USS50,OOO) as well as technical assistance to


                                                      - 33 -

operationalize the regulatory framework o f the commission (US$50,000).

1.2.7. Parliamentary Oversight (US$0.2 million)
Parliamentary oversight in the area o f public finance is weak and inefficient. For many years, Parliament
didnot receive audited accounts o f government, public institutions andpublic enterprises as required by the
law, mainly because annual accounts were not produced. To date, only the audited accounts for 1997 have
been submitted to Parliament. The Parliamentary control function i s significantly hampered by lack o f
resources and capacity. The responsible Public Finance Committee i s not adequately equipped to analyze
the reports o f the Auditor General and to initiate a Parliamentary debate about the findings.

Project support will complement major assistance by the European Union (about US$2.0 million) and focus
on enhancing the capacity o f Parliament in the area o f public finance, in particular, to scrutinize the work
o f the Auditor General. To this end, assistance will be provided for training and capacity building o f the
Members o f the Public Finance Committee (US$80,000), some basic equipment to enable research and
preparation o f reports (US$60,000) as well as for some funds to commission studies and evaluations in the
areas o f public finance (US$60,000).

Project Component 1.3 Procurement reform US$1.OO million
                                              -
Public procurement in Madagascar is weak and a main source o f corruption. The present institutional
set-up comprises a Central Tender Board in Antananarivo (Commission Centrale des Marchb: CCM) and
Provincial Tender Boards in each province (Commission Provinciale des March&: CPM).                  Significant
analytical work has been completed to identify the problems and bottlenecks in the area o f procurement: In
1999, the Government commissioned a comprehensive review o f the procurement with support by the
European Union.        The recommendations o f the respective work group (Cellule de Riforme et de
Renforcement des Organes de C o n t d e , CRROC) together with the findings o f the recently completed
CPAR form the basis for the proposed reforms.

Key problems and weaknesses o f the existing system include: (i)    lack o f transparency; (ii) complex
                                                                                               overly
andbureaucratic procedures, (iii) outdated regulatory framework that does not comply with
                                    an
international standards, (iv) inefficient procurement institutions that are not able to deliver adequate
services, and (v) limited capacity o f the public administration inthe area o f public procurement.

Inline with the recommendations o fthe CPAR procurement reforms will focus onthe following areas:
         Development o f new procurement regulations
     The new regulations will fundamentally overhaul the outdated procurement systems andprocedures in
     Madagascar. It aims at consolidating the fragmented legal, institutional and organizational framework
     for processing public procurement, and at establishing a transparent procurement system with uniform
     rules andprocedures for the entire public administration.
     0    EstablishindStrengtheningo f effective procurement institutions
     To ensure that the new regulations will be adequately applied a revised institutional framework will be
     put inplace which aims at (i)  improving operational efficiency through adequate delegation o f
     responsibilities, and at (ii)
                                providing sufficient oversight and control.
     0    Training and capacity building
     To ensure the sustainability o f the procurement reforms, significant investments incapacity building
     (awareness creation, training andmonitoring) at all relevant levels o f the public service are required to
     ensure that the new regulatory framework will be adequately applied.

Project support will be provided for training and capacity building(US$0.6 million), modernization and
equipment (US$O.1 million) as well as targeted technical assistance to assist Government in


                                                      - 34 -

operationalizing the regulatory and institutional framework (US$0.3 million).

Project Component 1.4 Strengthening change management, coordination, monitoring 8 evaluation US$     -
2.00 million
At the present stage, most ministries, departments and agencies do not have a focus on performance and
results. A common theme o f many reforms over the last years has been better management o f the public
sector, the results have been by and large disappointing because a culture o f service delivery is lacking in
the civil service. At the same time the need for a strengthened performance orientation i s critical, in
particular, in view o f Madagascar's difficult fiscal situation and in light o f the significant development
challenges ahead. In addition, accountability and transparency in the public sector i s weak; corruption
remains a serious problem as revealed by the Transparency International Corruption Index o f 2003
(Madagascar ranked 88th out o f 133 countries).

Under these circumstances the Government has decided to (i)set up an effective system of (policy)
coordination, monitoring & evaluation which would ensure that key Government strategies such as the
PRSP and other policy decisions are adequately implemented, and to (ii)     make the fight against corruption
a key priority area.

To operationalize these objectives the Government has begun to establish at the Presidency an
infrastructure that i s tasked with the coordination o f government activities and with the development of a
monitoring & evaluation system. World Bank support will be provided for the design and implementation
o f this new infrastructure. It will complement major support by other donors, inparticular, UNDP. World
Bank support will focus on financing short and longer-term consultancy services that will be required to
operationalize and implement the Government's strategy (US$O.9 million), training and capacity building
(USS0.4 million) as well as some basic equipment to set-up the new infrastructure (US$0.2 million).

Inthe area of corruptionthe Government has recently established an Anti-Corruption Commission (Conseil
SupBrieur de Lutte contre la Corruption) inthe President's Office. The main objective o f the commission is
to raise awareness about corruption, advise Government on a viable anti-corruption strategy and coordinate
all governance and anti-corruption efforts. This will include the development o f rules o f ethics for the
public sector; also value-based training to promote commitment to public service and to combat corruption,
as well as a fundamental reform o f campaign financing to improve transparency. The commission is also
responsible for the establishment o f an independent Anti-Corruption Agency (with investigative authority)
which will operationalize the Government's anti-corruption strategy. The project will support the work o f
the commission by providing funding for consultancy services that are required to define and implement the
Government policy (US$0.2m), for training and capacity building (US$0.2 million) as well as for some
basic equipment (US$O.lmillion). This support will complement planned or ongoing support by other
donors, inparticular, UNDP, U S A I D and the European Union.

Project Component 2. Capacity building and strengthening of local training institutions US$lS.OO million
                                                                                           -
The reforms initiated by the Government require significant investments in institutional development and
capacity building. This i s particularly important for the institutions that are at the center o f the reform
process. They will need assistance to effectively manage and implement the complex change processes
triggered by the various reforms. The project will support institutional development and capacity building
in two ministries: the Ministry of Finance and Budget which will implement the ambitious public finance
reforms, and the Ministry o f Justice, which aims at developing and implementing a reform strategy to
improve operational efficiency o f the judiciary and to combat corruption.

These changes will be complemented by significant investments in training and capacity building. Ideally,



                                                     - 35 -

training should be provided locally, to reduce costs and the dependence o f Madagascar from overseas
training.   This calls for strengthening local training institutions that are critical to deliver the type o f
training required by the reforms supported by this project (public financial management, general
administration, monitoring & evaluation, legal andjudicial reform). The project will therefore support the
National School for Magistrates and Clerks o f the Court (Ecole Nationale de la Magistrature et des
Greffes, ENMG, and the National School o f Administration (Ecole Nationale d'Administration de
Madagascar, ENAM).It will also assist Government in connecting Madagascar to the Global Development
Leaming Network (GDLN)by establishing a Development Learning Center.

Project Component 2.1 Support to the Ministry of Finance and Budget US$2.00 million
                                                                         -
The introduction o f the new integrated financial management system and the implementation o f the
recommendations o f the various analytical studies and reports, in particular, the report o f the government
work group (CRROC) and the recently completed CFAA, will fundamentally change the operations o f the
Ministryo f Finance and Budget. Over the past years, this ministry has already seen a number o f important
reforms: With previous World Bank assistance (PAIGEP I)           an integrated framework for budgeting and
accounting including a new chart o f accounts (Plan Comptable des Op6rations Publiques: PCOP) was
implemented, which permitted the standardization o f transactions in the area o f public finance. The
Treasury (including the regional treasuries) and the Budget Planning Office were (partially) computerized
to improve operational efficiency. An integrated financial management system was developed and tested in
the province o f Toamasina; this experience will provide an important input for the introduction o f the
comprehensive financial management system funded under this project.             Just recently, the directorate
charged with the development o f the operating budget (Budget Directorate) and the one responsible for the
investment budget (Public Investment Directorate) were merged into a single General Directorate o f Public
Expenditure. Work on adjusting the regulatory framework for public finance including the revision o f
public accounting regulations is ongoing.

While all these reforms are important buildingblocks for the intended consolidation o f the system o f public
finance much remains to be done to improve the operational efficiency o f the system andto bringit to
international standards.Important areas that needto be addressed include:

         In the context of the introduction o f the new integrated financial management system the
         institutional and regulatory framework needs to refined and existing operating manuals need to be
         revised. The new system is likely to have a significant impact on the existing institutional and
         procedural set-up. To avoid friction these implications have to be adequately dealt with.
         The new financial management system will also require a full integration o f the recurrent budget,
         the investment budget and the payroll which are currently prepared and managed separately.
         Overall compliance with public finance rules and regulations remains low. One o f the key findings
         o f the CFAA i s that a significant part o f the budget is implemented without proper reference and
         authorization. This situation seriously undermines the integrity and credibility o f the budget. There
         i s the need to tighten the regulatory framework for budget execution and to strictly enforce
         compliance. These activities will need to be complemented by adequate training and capacity
         building.
         Another finding o f the CFAA i s that the present payment authorization system i s significantly
         flawed because o f inconsistencies in the authorization process.        The CFAA recommends to
         designate in every ministry one person with the full responsibility for budget executing (from the
         commitment up to the payment stage) to improve transparency and accountability. This reform
         process will require institutional and procedural changes as well as training and capacity building.
         Timely and accurate disbursement o f public resources has been identified as another key problem
         area. This relates in particular to efficiency problems at the Treasury Department which requires


                                                       - 36 -

         improvement to speed up the process o f payment releases. Previous attempts to reform this
         department have failed, mainly due to resistance to change. To pave the way for a fundamental
         reform the Government -with assistance from the World Bank and France            - has decided to initiate
         an organizational audit o f the Treasury to address these problems. The current change process
         needs to be complemented by adequate awareness creation and capacity buildingactivities.
    0    Fixed asset management and inventory controls need to be systematically enforced on the basis o f a
         revised regulatory framework to ensure the adequate use o f public goods.

The Ministry o f Finance and Budget is at the center o f all these changes. The project design reflects the
implementation difficulties encountered under PAIGEP I,especially the issues o f change management and
absorptive capacity o f the administration. Significant assistance in the form o f capacity building and
technical advise will be provided to ensure that the Ministry o f Economy, Finance and Budget is able to
adequately manage and decisively implement the intended reforms. In this context, technical advise i s
aiming at supporting the government to introduce a prioritized and sequenced program o f reforms over
time, which takes into account the absorptive capacities o f the administration. One key aspect inrelation to
prioritization will be to identify the intermediate reform measures and their impact in relation to
improvement o f public finance. Technical advise should also contribute to support change management,
especially in relation to institutional issues linked to the introduction o f an integrated financial management
system or the significant reform o f procurement. World Bank support will consequently focus on capacity
building(US$1.6 million), the development o f new operational manuals incorporating the relevant changes
(US$0.25 million) and specialized technical assistance in the area o f institutional and procedural
development (US$O. 15 million).        IDA support will complement the assistance by other development
partners, in particular the African Development Bank (reform o f the Large Taxpayer Division and the
establishment o f a Fiscal Policy Unit in the Ministry o f Finance); France (technical assistance for the
restructuring o f the Treasury and the Revenue Directorate), and Germany (assistance for the coordination
o f the reforms).

Project Component 2.2 Supportto the Ministry of Justice US$2.50 million
                                                               -
The Government has identifiedjustice reform as a critical element to consolidate a democratic state which
i s governed by the rule o f law. Inthis context, the fight against the significant corruption inthe judiciary i s
a cornerstone for the Government's program to improve governance. In addition, within the framework o f
economic liberalization and development o f a market economy, the existence o f a transparent and reliable
judicial system, particularly inthe area o f business law, is considered indispensable.

The support needs identified by the Ministry o f Justice are numerous and diverse. They include: the
establishment o f the new jurisdictions specified in the Constitution (administrative and financial tribunals;
HighCourt o f Justice); the construction and opening o fnewjurisdictions (e.g. Mampikony District Court),
particularly in isolated areas; the reform o f procedural statutes; training and capacity building o f
magistrates and other personnel, establishment o f the General Inspectorate o f the Justice System to improve
internal control and combat corruption; codification and publication laws and regulations.

The Ministry o f Justice has drafted an ambitious work program that centers around the following reform
priorities: (i)rehabilitation o f the judicial and prison infrastructure, (ii) strengthening o f the mechanisms
 for combating corruption; (iii)expedition o f judicial processes; (iv) improvement o f the regulatory
 framework for the judiciary; and (v) humanization o f prison life. These broad priorities are broken down
 into detailed sub-components and action plans. It is particularly noteworthy that, in relative terms, legal
 reform i s considered to be of secondary importance incomparison to institutional reform, which adequately
 reflects the key problem area. Emphasis i s placed on the need to promote good governance and, in
 particular, efforts to stem corruption and upgrade human resources, as well as the political will to see


                                                       - 37 -

short-term objectives identified and then reached.

The judiciary receives or will receive support from a number o f development partners:

   0     The European Union is planning a major reform program to improve the communication
         infrastructure o f the judiciary and to modernize prisons. A needs analysis is under way to help
         identify potential support areas.

   0     Support by France focuses on business law reforms and implementation o f the trade and company
         register. A technical advisor was made available to the Ministryto assist in refining the reforms.
         Efforts have also been made in the area o f criminal law, computerization o f the Ministry and the
        jurisdictions (with complementary support by the World Bank under PAIGEP I)            and preparation
         for dissemination o f legal statutes. In addition, France provides targeted support to the National
         School for Magistrates and Clerks o f the Court (EcoleNationale des Magistrats et des Greffiers,
         ENMG), specifically with respect to training student magistrates, for the establishment o f two
         financial tribunals (Fianarantsoa and Mahajanga). The program is presently under evaluation, but
         it appears certain that a technical advisor for the Ministry will remain inplace to consolidate the
         actions already under way.

   0     The United States (through USAID) focuses its assistance mainly on the improvement o f
         governance. Main target area i s the development o f extra-judicial methods for settling disputes
         specifically through the training o f arbitrators and mediators for business matters.

World Bank support aims at complementing activities o f other development partners, in particular the
European Union, and at consolidating the reforms initiated under PAIGEP which focused on the
modemization o f business law, publication o f existing texts to the relevant stakeholders, improving human
resources by the creation o f a National School for Magistrates and Clerks o f the Court. Project assistance,
which will be closely coordinated with other development partners will focus on the following areas:

   0      Expedition o f civil and commercial proceedings with the objective to significantly reduce the
          current backlog and to increase the efficiency o f the proceedings. In this context a national forum
          onjustice will be organized to discuss the issue o f expedited proceedings. The recommendations o f
          this forum would form the basis for an action plan to be implemented with assistance under this
          project. Inthis context, it will not be sufficient to consider only the time frame inwhich decisions
          are rendered, or the quality o f the instructions given. The effectiveness o f representatives o f the
          law, lawyers and bailiffs will also need to be considered, as will the concept o f a charter for the
          banking profession establishing a commitment not to hinder the freezing o f bank accounts or the
          seizure o f intangible assets.

          To further improve the efficiency o f the judiciary service standards and evaluation methods used in
         judicial work will be examined and re-evaluated. One o f the goals i s to increase the case load
          handled by the various magistrates in line with international standards. Technical assistance will
          be provided for the design and the dissemination o f these methods. This will include support to
          improve the communication infrastructure o f the judicial system in collaboration with the lead
          development partner in this area, the European Union. The National School for Magistrates and
          Clerks o f the Court, will be tasked with training and capacity building on the basis o f the newly
          developed evaluation methods and service standards (both pre-service and in-service training).

    0     To ensure effective oversight and to combat corruption the internal control cadre o f the Ministry o f


                                                       - 38 -

        Justice, the Judicial Services Inspectorate, will be further strengthened. The existing system o f
        oversight will be rationalized.     It is envisaged to transform the inspectorate into the General
        Inspectorate o f the Justice System as specified in the Constitution. In this context, a detailed
        inspection system with procedural manuals needs to be developed and implemented. These
        activities will be complemented by capacity buildingand specialized training o f relevant staff.

Project support comprises training and capacity building (USS0.5 million), equipment and other
modernization needs (US$1.5 million) as well as targeted technical assistance to implement the reforms
(USS0.5 million).

Project Component 2.3 Improvement of selected public services US$1.70 million
                                                                    -
To ensure credibility o f institutional reforms the Government intends to fundamentally overhaul a limited
number o f public services with large public-private interface. Key objective is to improve service delivery
and produce visible results in the short term. The identification o f these services is presently ongoing;
services could include customs, land titling, primary education and the commercial sections of courts. It is
anticipated to base the reforms o f these services on a broad participatory approach, involving relevant
stakeholders andor beneficiaries in the design and implementation o f the change process. Regular impact
assessment will complement the implementation o f the reforms.

The Government initiative can build on some experiences to improve and strengthen decentralized service
delivery: UNDP is financing capacity building activities at the commune level in two provinces
(Fainarantsoa and Toliara). In addition, UNDP is supporting regional development o f Ambato Boeny in
the province o f Majunga. It is envisaged that this support will be extended to another region (Ambalavao)
inthe province of Fianarantsoa. The European Union is currently developing a rural development program
that will provide investment finance and institutional support to rural communes in the provinces o f Tulear
and Fianarantsoa. The European Union and France will also provide assistance for customs reforms.
France supported social and political development at the commune level. It also provided assistance for the
establishment o f administrative and financial tribunals in two provinces. It is anticipated to provide
technical advise to the new ministry to refine and operationalize the reforms. The World Bank assistance
presently focuses on investments and some basic capacity buildingat the commune level.

Development partners have agreed to support this reform initiative o f the Govemment which could provide
the basis for a broader reform program if the initial reforms are successful. Support under this project will
focus on capacity building, workshops as well as beneficiary and impact assessments aimed at reforming
selected public services (US1.0 million). Additional support will fund some basic equipment (IT,
fumiture) to improve efficiency o f public services (US%0.5 million) and specialized technical advise to
operationalize the intended reforms (USS0.2 million).

Project Component2.4 Strengthening of local training institutions US$7.30 million
                                                                      -
The implementation o f the reforms supported by this project will require major investments in human
resources development and professional training, in particular in the areas o f public finance management,
general administration, monitoring & evaluation, legal andjudicial reforms. Ideally, the bulk o f the training
 should be delivered locally for reasons o f efficiency. This would require local training institutions that are
 able to deliver high-quality training and capacity building in the above mentioned priority areas. At the
present stage, the capacity o f the local training institutions in question is weak. The project will therefore
 support the strengthening o f three local training institutions, which play a major role in the provision of
 capacity building required under this project, also to reduce Madagascar's dependency on overseas
 training:



                                                      - 39 -

0 The National School for Magistrates and Clerks of the Court (Ecole Nationale de la Magistrature
  et des Greffes: ENMG) has been in operation for six years, with major support by the World Bank
  under PAIGEP I. its existence it has trained 108magistrates and 179 clerks inall areasrelevant
                     During
  to their work. This has allowed the Govemment to increase the number of legaljurisdictions by from
  33 to 37 and thus bringing the legal system closer to the population. The additional staff has also
  contributed to a substantial reduction in the backlogs o f court decisions: from 1999 to 2001 the
  backlog o f penal court orders has been reduced by 21%, and that o f civil and commercial court orders
  by 14%. More than 20% o f magistrates and clerks have received pre-service training from this
  institution, and virtually all have attendedat least one session o f in-service training. ENMGis currently
  at a critical juncture of its development. Because it has demonstrated its value the Government has
  decided to provide it with new facilities which will allow it to expand. Since its inception the school
  has suffered from an inadequate operating budget and lack o f funds to design and organize training
  programs. PAIGEP Isupported the process of setting up ENMG and, in particular, provided funding
  for training and some office equipment. In the past, France and the US provided some assistance to
  enable training and capacity building. France has also supported the collaboration with overseas
  training institutions.

  The project will continue to support ENMGto consolidate the achievements under PAIGEP Iand to
  complement the legayjudicial reforms initiated by the Govemment. The support needs of the school are
  substantial. The new facilities need to be adequately equipped to enable acceptable work conditions.
  The training program (initial and continuing education) of the school must be revisedin view of new
  demands in the area of legal and judicial reform (for example expedition of proceedings and intemal
  controls). A training program for the professional staff of the school needs to be initiated to enable the
  school to meet these new demands. The overall training concept will have to be revisited. It i s
  anticipated to make in-service training mandatory with a significant impact on the career development.
  Training and capacity buildingmust be adequately funded to allow broad participation. Collaboration
  with other training institutions inthe region and overseas has to be improved to ensure that the school
  meets intemational standards.

  World Bank support will focus on equipping the new facilities o f the school (US$2.0 million), on the
  development o f new curricula and training material (USS0.7 million), on the training o f trainers and
  other professional staff (US$O.S million), on providing funds for training o f magistrates, clerks and
  other personnel in the judicial system (US$1.3 million) and on other specialized technical assistance to
  enable the school to fulfill its mandate (US0.3 million).

0 The National School of Administration (Ecole Nationale d'Administration de Madagascar,
  ENAM) was created 20 years ago to the key training institutions for the public servants. The school
  i s focusing on professional training and development; different types o f basic training and continuing
  education are provided for administrators and inspectors in the civil service.             In 1990, ENAM
  established a training branch specifically for the needs o f the revenue agencies. The school is
  organized as a public institution (dtablissementpublic d caractzre administvat$ EPA), it receives its
  funding from the Government budget. Key problems include: (i) capacity for basic training and
                                                                        limited
   continuing education that does not meet the demand (the total capacity is presently 250 against a
  potential demand o f more than l,OOO),      (ii)lack ofmodem equipment and training facilities, (iii)
   outdated curricula and training material, (iv) lack o f qualified trainers; at present the school has three
  permanent and 80 part time trainers. To address these problems, the school has developed a reform
  program that centers around the following objectives: (i)     the improvement of quality of training and
  professionalization o f trainers, (ii)modernization of curricula and training material, (iii)expansion into
   areas o f high demand, in particular in the area o f public finance, and (iv) improvement of the overall


                                                    - 40 -

    administration o f the school.

    The school has conducted an analysis to identify the training needs in the public administration. Key
    findings include the need to substantially enhance training for the sub-national levels o f Government
    and to improve capacity building in the area o f public finance. On the basis o f these findings, it is
    planned to further enhance the services o f the school to cover areas o f high demand (public finance,
    general administration). The extension o f the capacity o f the school (both in terms o f capacity and
    areas covered) will require significant investments (equipment, staffing, training material, curricula
    development etc.) and will have a major impact on the administrative structure o f the school.

    World Bank support will be provided for the following areas:
    (i)Establishment ofa commission to review the existing curricula andtrainingmaterials with the
    objective o f adjusting them to the existing demand. The commission will also develop new curricula
    and training materials in line with the expansion o f the school into other areas. Support will be
    provided for consultancy services (USS0.3 million), equipment and office material (US$O. 1 million).
    (ii)Organizational restructuring of the school to modernize school administration and improve
    operational efficiency. Support will cover consultancy services (US$0.05 million) and capacity
    building(US$0.05 million).
    (iii)Creation o f a high-caliber core group o f qualified trainers who are able to deliver training in line
    with international standards. Support will be provided for specialized training and capacity building
    (USS0.6 million).
    (iv) Support to upgrade and modernize the facilities o f the school. Support will focus on equipment o f
    training rooms (US$0.5 million), modemization o f the library (US$0.2 million) and new training
    material (US$0.2 million).

    The National Center for Administrative Training (Centre National de Formation Administrative,
    CNFA) was founded in 1963. Its main objective is the basic training (two years) o f middle level
    candidates for the civil service inMadagascar. It is the principle training institution for technical level
    staff o f the administration. It is also involved in continuing education for the technical levels o f the
    administration. Over the years, CNFA has trained more than 3000 civil servants, mainly revenue
    agents, financial management specialist and administrators in all branches o f Government. CNFA is
    organized as a public institution attached to the Civil Service Ministry. Key problems include: (i)
    limited capacity for basic training that does not meet the demand (the total capacity is presently 220
    against an estimated demand o f 350), (ii) modernize equipment, training facilities, curricula and
                                                needto
    training material, (iii)lack o f qualified professional training cadre. The center presently does not
    receive donor funding.

    World Bank support will focus on the development o f new curricula and updated training material
    (USS0.2 million), on the training o f professional staff (US$0.3 million), on some equipment to increase
    the capacity o f the center and modernize its training facilities (USS0.6 million), and on providing funds
    for training o f technical level civil servants mainly at the sub-national levels o f Government (USS0.4
    million).

Project Component 2.5 Establishment of a Development Learning Center US$2.50 million
                                                                            -
The Global Development Learning Network (GDLN) Program has completed its third year o f operation
with some success indeveloping programming and content. Already operational ineight countries inAfrica
and in more than fifty around the world, the Development Learning Centers are today successful learning
tools. After two year o f operations, the DLCs in Dakar and Benin has already reached the objectives o f the
thirdyear interms o f operating costs recovery, the leaming program andthe number of clients.


                                                     -41 -

With Mauritania, Kenya, Burkina Faso, and Mali, Madagascar will benefit from this new learningnetwork
as part o f the third phase o f the GDLN deployment. Moreover, the D L C in Antananarivo will be part o f a
Francophone African DL network already including Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'Ivoire, Mauritania,
Senegal. These five Centers benefit from a close relationship with the World Bank Institute (WBI) GDLN
Services Department in Paris, France.          The WBI and other World Bank units deliver many learning
activities themselves through the network. The GDLN Services Department inPans, inaddition, facilitates
provision o f activities from many other learning institutions, all over the world.          These include other
international agencies (such as Agence FranGaise de Ddveloppement, The Institut de la Banque de France,
etc.. .), learning institutions indeveloping countries and universities in Canada and Europe.

Distance learning is a fairly recent concept for Madagascar. The first center to allow for such activities is
the National Distance Leaming Center o f Madagascar (Centre National de TdId-Enseignement de
Madagascar: CNTEMAD), founded in 1992 and affiliated with the University o f Antananarivo, which
offers multilevel correspondence courses to students located throughout the country. The distance learning
initiative will aim to: (i)     improve the quality o f training and capacity building in Madagascar, (ii)
strengthen the environment o f policy reform andbuildingthe capacity in the public and private sectors; (ii)
help coordinate all the local training institutions in regard to the national capacity building policy by
puttingin coherence, through the DLC Board, all the courses and training offered by the existing training
institutions.

The main target audience o f the GDLN comprises o f decision makers from the public sector and civil
servants in general. Due to the limited budget allocations available to governments, the public sector has
not represented a large part o f the GDLN trainees but the number o f civil servant trainees i s growing and
has reached an encouraging fifty percent in certain counties. Some GDLN Centers have now signed
agreements with government administrations presenting the D L C and the GDLN as the main training tool
for civil servants.

A detailed training needs assessment, covering the public and private sectors and civil society, is being
conducted as input for the Center's business plan. The consultant undertaking the study will have access to
similar studies conducted in other countries, such as Benin, Cote d'Ivoire, and Senegal, to give Madagascar
the advantage o f experience in other counties.

Funding for the D L C to be provided under the project will include :
     0     D L C construction, equipment and installation. This component will set up the institutional,
           physical and human resource requirements for the DLC. It will be implemented by the project
           implementation unit.(US$l. 1million).
           Support o f the DLC operations. The component will support the D L C operations and assist in
           establishing its viability and training program. It will be implemented by the DLC. (US$1.2
           million).
     0     Monitoring & Evaluation. This component will support monitoring and evaluation activities aimed
           at ensuring the sustainability o f the center. It will be managed by the project coordination unit with
           considerable input and collaboration from the DLC. (US$0.2 million).

The project will finance the D L C operations during the first four years o f operations on a decreasing basis.
The first year, the project will cover 80% o f the Center's operating costs. The second year, it will cover
60%, the third year 40%, and the fourth year 20%. The management staff o f the D L C will elaborate a
business-plan which will describe the management policy o f the Center. The business-plan will help the
D L C to reach financial sustainability by the fifth year o f implementation.


                                                         - 42 -

Project Component 3. Effective Project Management US$3.20 million
                                                         -
The Bureau National du Projet (BNP) established as the management structure for the Public Management
Capacity Building Project (PAIGEP I)         will continue to administrate and supervise the project activities.
This unit will be responsible for : (a) procurement, including all contracting for works and purchases, and
the hiring o f consultants, (b) project monitoring, reporting and evaluation, (c) the contractual relationship
with IDA, and (d) financial recordkeeping, the Special Account and disbursements.

Adequate operation o f the BNP i s a key factor for the implementationo f the project. The BNP consists o f a
director, five technical staff and support staff. It i s attached to the Presidency. The BNP together with a
Project Coordinator at the Presidency will ensure the coordination between the different stakeholders
affected by and institutions participating inthe project. A Steering Committee consisting o f the Permanent
Secretaries o f all targeted institutions has been set up to provide advice and general guidance during project
implementation. The Steering Committee i s headed by the Project Coordinator who reports to the Chief o f
Staff at the Presidency. The members o f the Steering Committee are responsible for the coordination o f
project activities and the facilitation o f the implementation intheir respective areas.

The project will finance the recurrent costs (salaries and operation costs) o f the BNP, o f the Project
Coordinator and two technical advisors (one at the Presidency, the other one at the Ministry o f Finance)
who are deemed necessary to ensure adequate project implementation, extemal auditing and accounting
assistance (consultants) (USS2.2 million). Additional short term consultants will be recruited for the
assistance to the BNP during the supervision o f the project, in particular for regular independent audits o f
implementation progress and impact assessments (USs0.4 million). The project will also fund additional
equipment (USS0.3 million) and relevant training o f the BNP staff (USS0.3 million).




                                                        - 43 -

                                            Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
              MADAGASCAR: Governance and Institutional Development Project




1. Improvement of Transparency and Economic Govemance                                             12.90                    19.20                    32.10
2. Capacity Buildingand Strengthening of Local Training                                           12.10                      3.90                    16.00
Institutions
3. Project Coordinationand Management                                                                2.50                    0.70                     3.20
PPF                                                                                                  0.00                    1.58                      1.58
Unallocated                                                                                          1.62                    1.40                     3.02
Total Baseline Cost                                                                               29.12                    26.78                     55.90
 Physical Contingencies                                                                              0.00                    0.00                     0.00
 Price Contingencies                                                                                 1.10                    1.oo                     2.10
                                          Total Project Costs'                                    30.22                    27.78                     58.00
                                  Total Financing Required                                        30.22                    27.78                     58.00
N o physical contingencies have been calculated. The estimed costs of components 1-3 are compounded
Innually by 1%.



Goods

Services incl. training
Recurrentcosts
Contingencies
PPF
Unallocated
                                                           Total Project Cost:                        23.14                     34.86                    58.00
                                                 Total Financing Required                             23.14                     34.86                    58.00

   1
    Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m)and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 58 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 5 1.72% oftotal
   project cost net oftaxes.




                                                                      - 44 -

                          Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
            MADAGASCAR: Governance and Institutional Development Project

The economic analysis comes to the conclusion that the benefits triggered by the project interventions
clearly outweigh the costs. Although it is not possible to quantify all benefits, the analysis o f quantifiable
factors confirms that planned investments and other additional costs generated by implementation o f the
project will over a period of ten years be largely compensated by the expected benefits.

The quantifiable benefits accrued over ten year period represent a net present value o f U S 1 6 7 million (see
details below). These benefits consist of savings made from inadequate use or misuse o f public resources as
well as from additional costs paid by households andthe private sector due to corruption. These benefits are
by-and-large indirect; the beneficiaries are households, private enterprises and the administration.

The estimated benefits exceed the costs for implementing the project, which          -  apart from the initial
investments - consists o f increasing recurrent costs o f the targeted departments and agencies which benefit
from the project. The overall net present value amounts intotal to 80 million dollars for the ten year period.


To facilitate the quantification o f benefits the project activities have been grouped under two components:
(i)enhancement oftransparency and efficiency ofthe public finance system, and (ii)improvement of
governance and o f public services. In addition, for the Global Development Learning Center, which will be
funded by the project, a marketing study is underway which will evaluate the costs and the benefits o f the
center.

1.Enhancement oftransparency and efficiency of public finance system

 1.1.Identification/quantificationofbenefitsand of beneficiaries

The activities under this component provide for the most important benefits. They include: (i)capacity
building and institutional development support to the Ministry o f Finance, Economy, and Budget: (ii)
 strengthening o f internal and external control functions o f the system o f public finance; (iii) o f
                                                                                                     reform
public procurement, and (iv) design and implementation of a monitoring & evaluation framework for the
 PRSP. Other capacity buildingelement (i.e. support to ENAMand CNFA) have been included.

 The total benefits generated by these activities will actually reach a net present value o f more than
 US$120m over the period o f 10 years. In this context, three elements will constitute the main sources o f
 such benefits: the integrated public finance management system which will rationalize and streamline
 expenditure management, the procurement reform which will overhaul the existingprocurement system, and
 the strengthening o f internal and external control mechanisms to ensure adequate use o f public resources.
 The positive impact will be reinforced by qualitative benefits, in particular improved transparency and
 accountability.

 The estimates are based on the average annual amount of the misusehadequate use of public resources
 which amount to approximately 40 million dollars per year. This figure is derived data reported by           "
 Brigade d'Inspection des Tr&sors" and by the "Inspection G&n&ralde I'Etat (IGE)". These data are
 complemented by estimates o f other misuses o f public resources which are presentedinthe following table:




                                                       - 45 -

                                                     Table 1
                                 MisappropriationlMisuse of Public Resources

                                            1999          2000             2001             2002         Average
                                      (in millionFMG)  [inmillionFMG) (in millionFMG)  (inmillionFMG)  n millionFMG)


Misuse reportedby the IGE                 12,121.66         6,314.73      254,157.06         3,380.07        68,993.38

Misuse reportedby Brigadede               30,960.21          1,734.17        6,48 1.03       5,578.03         11,188.36
TrCsor
Misuse inthe BudgetChain'                 19,120.51        27,003.20             51.38          117.30         1,573.10


Misuse through publicprocurementi         66,634.35        88,159.54      109,3 12.50       92,344.79         89,112.79

Misuse of fund inGovernment
Autonomous Agencies                       43,081.86         8,048.90      260,638.09          8,958.10        90,18 1.74

        Total in millionFMG             171,918.59        131,260.54      630,640.06       110,378.29      261,049.37



 The total benefits were calculated based on an annual reduction o f 10% o f the misuse/misappropriation o f
public resources. Inaddition, it was assumed that the reduction will peak as o f year 6: Table 2 summarizes
the evolution o f benefits until 2014:

                                                      Table 2
                                                 Net Present Value
                   Enhancement of transparency and efficiency of the public finance system

                                      I         . ...
                                          _I            c.   I                   3 1




                            2004      1           4.01                   3.72
                            2005                  8.03                   6.89

                            2007                 16.06                  11.81
                            2008      I1         20.08                  13.67

                            2010                 24.10                  14.06
                            2011                 24.10                  13.02
                            2012                 24.10                  12.05

                            2014       1         24.10                  10.33
                            Total      1        204.82                121.45


Inthis context, it is expected that the new integrated financial management system andimprovement of the
internallexternal control mechanisms will have the greatest impact on the use o f public resources. Improved
controls and modernization will significantly decrease misappropriation or misuse o f public expenditures
which often occw in the form o f cash deficits inthe treasuries, through falsification o f payment documents,
false entries, and other misuses o f the budget. It is estimated that such misuses amount to around US$26



                                                       - 46 -

million per year. Procurement i s another major source o f misuse o f public resources, mainly due to
corruption. The amount o f misused i s estimated at least at 13 million dollars per year. The intended
procurement reform will fundamentally overhaul the existing system. Additional benefits are to be expected
by the implementation of a monitoring & evaluation framework for the PRSP; though these benefits are
difficult to quantify it i s anticipated that the new system will lead to a qualitative improvement o f
government activities and related public expenditures.

1.2. costs

The net present value o f the activities to enhance transparency and efficiency o f the public finance system
will be about US$60 million:

                                                    Table 3
                                       Net PresentValue Activity Costs
                  Enhancementof transparency and efficiencyof the public finance system

                             I   Year     I  NominalCost I    Net Presentvalue    I

                                                 6.40     I             5.93
                                 2005            11.70                 10.03
                                 2006            17.50                 13.89
                                 2007             8.50                  6.25
                             I   2008     I       6.90    I             4.70       I
                                 2009            4.75                   2.99
                             I   2010             5.50                  3.21
                                 2011     III     6.00    1II           3.24
                                 2012             6.00                  3.00
                                 2013             6.00                  2.78
                                 2014             6.00                  2.57
                              I  Total    1      85.25    I            58.59       1

These costs will include the investments required to develop and implement an integrated financial
management system, including the increased recurrent costs for the operation o f such a system,
procurement reforms and the investments necessary to strengthen intemavextemal control mechanisms
(initial investment, supplementary operating costs, increased staffing etc.).

2. Improvement of governance and public services

2.1. Identificatiodquantification of benefits and of beneficiaries

These activities include anti-corruption measures, the reform o f the judicial system, capacity building and
institutional development for the Ministry o f Justice, support to the School o f Magistrates (EcoleNationale
de la Magistrature et des Greffes, ENMG) as well as the improvement o f targeted public services. The
total benefits are estimated at about US$47 million after 10 years. They entail the potential saving made by
the users o f public services (households and private enterprises) based on a reduction o f corruption, and
improved tax revenues.




                                                      - 47 -

The potential savings by households and private enterprises will have a net value o f about US$25 million
after ten years; they were estimated on the basis o f extra costs paid by public service users in three
departments identified by a Transparency International survey as the most corrupt ones (traffic police,
customs andjustice). These costs are on average US$l5 million as the table below indicates:


                                                   Table 4
                             Extra cost of Public Service Users due to Corruption
                                            Gap of Fiscal Revenue

                                                            Amount                  Amount
                                                         inmillion FMG           in US Dollars
                  Traffic Police4                              5,490.00               844,615
                  Customs (users extra costf                 24,270.00              3,733,846
                  Customs (Gap of fiscal Revenue)6           48,540.00              7,467,692
                  Administration                               7,500.00             1,153,846
                  Justice                                      16,498.00            2,538,154
                                 Total                      102,298.00             15,738,154


The remaining benefits through reduced Corruption in other departments was estimated. The total benefits
were then calculated on the basis o f an annual decrease o f 10% in corruption. I t was also assumed that
these savings will peak as o f year six. Other benefits will be derived from reforming customs. The
assessment is based on a revenue loss o f US$7 million (30% o f annual average revenues o f about US$25
million). A decrease in corruption o f 10% per year will allow the Govemment to recover US$22 million
after ten years (with the hypothesis that benefits will stagnate as o f the sixthyear).

Table 5 summarized the net present value over a period o f ten years:

                                                    Table 5
                                              Net Present Value
                               Improvement of Governance and Public Services

                                Year     Nominal Benefit        Net Present value'




                                                    9.44     I                5.10    1
                                2012                9.44                      4.72
                                2013
                              I        I1           9.44     1I               4.37
                              I 2014 1              9.44     I                4.05    1
                                Total   1          78.99     1              46.73     1


                                                      - 48 -

In addition, improved transparency, accountability and credibility in the administration and inthe justice
system will generate important indirect benefits, inparticular trigger increasedinvestments.

2.2. costs

The net present value o f activities supported by the project amount to US$22 million over the ten year
period. These costs include investment and recurrent costs.


                                                                  Table 6
                                                     Net PresentValue Activity Costs
                                        Improvementof Governance and Public Services

                                            Year            NominalCost                Cost Netresent Value
                                                              (uS$m)                           (uS$m)
                                            2003
                                            2004                       1.80                                1.67
                                            2005                       4.40                                3.77
                                            2006                       5.00                                3.97
                                            2007                       3.50                                2.57

                                            2009                       2.50                                1.58
                                             2010       II             2.75                                1.60



                                             2013                      2.75                                1.27
                                        I    2014        II            2.75                                1.18
                                            Total        I           32.95          I                     21.84        I

The most significant investments will be required by the intended support for the Government's
anti-corruption activities. These activities entail the establishment o f an anti-corruption commission
(CSLCC). Costs related to justice reform are limited. They mainly result from an increase in operating
costs o f the justice administration and o f the tribunals.
Support to the ENMG will focus mainly on upgrading o f the existing infrastructure which will result in
increased recurred costs.
.Footnotes:. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  . . . . . . . .



   This amountis basedonthe recurrentbudgetexcludingpersonnelemolumentswhich hasbeenmultipliedwith acoefficient of0.8. 2% ofthis
   amount was estimatedto be misusedor misappropriated.
   This amount is basedon the PublicInvestmentProgramwhich hasbeenmultipliedby a coefficientof0.7. 5% ofthe amountwas estimatedto be
   misusedor misappropriated.
   A depreciationof 8% per year was usedfor the calculationofthe netpresent value.
   The assessmentof the misuseis basedonthe assumptionthat out of atotal of 100.000 Govemment vehicles circulating inthe country 20% are
   misappropriatedwhich amounts to 300, 000 FMGper year.
    10%ofthe value ofcustoms revenue (estimatedat 168 Billion of FMG) that would bepaidby honesthouseholdsand enterprises to receivegoods
   ontime and in goodcondition.
   It is estimatedthat 30% of the value of customsrevenue(estimated at 168 Billion of FMG) are misusedby customs officials.
   The net present value calculationwas basedon adepreciationrate of 8%.




                                                                    - 49 -

                                            Annex 5: Financial Summary
                  MADAGASCAR: Governance and Institutional Development Project
                                                  Years Ending
                                                    2004-2009

                                                              IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD                                   ' *
                                                                                                                   *   $
                                 I  Year1     I  Year2    I  Year3     I Year4 I      Year5     I   Year6     IYear7
 Total Financing
 Required
   ProjectCosts
    Investment Costs                      8.0        9.0         12.0        14.0           9.0           1.o       0.0
   Recurrent Costs                        1.o        1.o          1.o         1.o           1.o           0.0       0.0
 Total ProjectCosts                       9.0       10.0         13.0        15.0          10.0           1.o       0.0
 Total Financing                          9.0       10.0         13.0        15.0          10.0           1.o       0.0
 Financing
     IBRDllDA                             7.0        7.0         7.0         4.0            4.0           1.o       0.0
     Government                           2.0        3.O          6.0        11.0           6.0           0.0       0.0
          Central                         3.O        3.O          0.0         0.0           0.0           0.0       0.0
          Provincial                      0.0        0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0           0.0       0.0
     Co-financiers                        0.0        0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0           0.0       0.0
                                          0.0        0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0           0.0       0.0
, Total Project Financing                 9.0       10.0         13.0        15.0          10.0           1.o       0.0
 Main assumptions:
 (i) IDA support will cover the bulk ofthe fundingneeds duringfirst three years ofproject implementation,
 (ii) Governmentwill progressively take over fundingfor projectimplementationthrough its annualbudget,
 (iii) After the first three years of projectimplementationinvestment lendingwill continue to cover training,
 capacity buildingand specializedtechnical advise.




                                                         - 50 -

                              Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
             MADAGASCAR: Governance and Institutional Development Project

Procurement
General

1.         The third Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) has been conducted in November
2002 for Madagascar and a workshop took place on May 2003 for the validation o f a joint CPAWCFAA
action plan to ensure rapid implementation o f procurement reforms.       The Procurement Code issued in
1998 will continue to govern untila new code will be set up and adopted. N o special exceptions, permits or
licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for international competitive bidding since
Madagascar procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions
o f local regulations.

Use of Bank Guidelines
  2.      Goods and works financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January 1995 and revised in January 1996,
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBD), and
Standard Evaluation Report (SER) will be used for both International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and
National Competitive Bidding(NCB) procedures. N C B advertised locally will be carried out in accordance
with the Madagascar's procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to IDA provided that they assure
economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with key objectives o f the Bank Guidelines. For
N C B procedures, the Government gave assurance during negotiations that the following principles would
be adhered to: (i)   all bids would be submitted in one envelope to be opened publicly; (ii) systems
                                                                                                 point
would not be used for bid evaluation for works; (iii) award o f contracts would be announced to all
                                                         the
bidders; (iv) any bidder would be given adequate response time (at least four weeks) for preparation and
submission o f bids; (v) bid evaluation and bidder qualification criteria would be clearly specified in
bidding/pre-qualificationdocuments and will not be applied arbitrarily; (vi) eligible firms would not be
precluded from participation; (vii) no preference margin i s granted to domestic contractors and suppliers;
(viii) contracts would be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with predetermined and
transparent methods; and (ix) bid evaluation reports would clearly state the reasons to reject any
non-responsive bid. To mitigate risks o f delays for the proposed project, proper prerequisites for the use o f
Bank standard bidding documents, including evaluation reports for National Competitive Bidding
procedures (NCB) have been agreed on with the Government during negotiations and the Procedures
Manual would be submitted to and found acceptable by IDA.

 3.          Consultancy services financed by IDA will be procured inaccordance with IDA Guidelines for
the Selection o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997,revised in September 1997,
 January 1999 and May 2002 . The Standard Request for Proposals (RFP) as developed by the Bank will be
usedfor the selection o f consulting firms. Simplified contracts, acceptable to the Bank, will be used for
 short term assignments, i.e. those not exceeding six months, or for those costing less than US$200,000. The
 Government has been briefed during appraisal as well as negotiations about the features o f the most recent
 consultants Guidelines, inparticular with respect to advertisement, proposals opening and the various steps
 o f IDA review.
  Procurement methods (Table A)

 4.        Procurement o f Works. The project will finance works contracts for an estimated total amount o f
 US$4.4 million equivalent, o f which IDA will finance US$2.4 million, including (i) works for the
                                                                                      civil
 establishment o f a Development Learning Center, and (ii)   works related to the rehabilitation and



                                                     -51 -

improvement o f existing facilities for the introduction o f an integrated financial management system. Civil
works procurement shall be carried out through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures.
Contracts for small works, estimated to cost less than US$50,000, will be procured through quotations
procedures.
5.        Procurement o f Goods. The project will finance the purchase o f goods for an estimated total
amount o f US$9.32 million equivalent, o f which IDA will finance U S 4 . 6 million, including: (i)    fumiture
and IT equipment for the rehabilitation o f training facilities and the modernization o f libraries, (ii)
equipment for the establishment o f a Wide-Area Network for the integrated financial management system,
(iii) fumiture and equipment for the Development Learning Center, (iv) vehicles and motorcycles, and (v)
sector-related scientific, technical and financial books and documentation. Most o f the goods will be
procured through (a) I C B procedures when costing more than US$250,000 per package, (b) N C B when
costing between US$250,000 and US$50,000, (c) National Shopping (NS) procedures acceptable to the
Bank, based on the evaluation o f at least three price quotations and in accordance with provisions o f
paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 o f the Guidelines, for items costing less than US$50,000, including office
equipment, furniture, training materials, office supplies and documentation, and (d) also, to facilitate
speedy procurement, vehicles may be procured from the UnitedNations Agency IAPSO.
6.        Consultancy Services and Training. The project will finance the contracting o f consultancy
services for studies, technical assistance and training up to an estimated total amount o f US$38.96 million,
o f which US$20.32 million will be financed by IDA.
          Firms. Firms will be recruited on the basis o f the Quality and Costs Based selection (QCBS)
method, using the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals, to provide services including (i)       the design and
introduction o f an integrated financial management system on a turn-key basis; (ii)    the technical assistance
for organizational design, institutional development, training and capacity building; (iii)project
management and supervision support, independent audits and review, and (iv) the project's auditors.
 Selection based on consultants qualifications (CQ) can be used for the recruitment o f training institutions
and for assignments that meet criteria set out inpara. 3.7 o f the Guidelines. Single Source selection can be
used to extend the contract o f firms contracted under the PPF (using as a rule QCBS) to assist the
government in designing and supervising specific sub-components and for contract which amount do not
exceed US$lOO,OOO or equivalent. For contracts based on a short list o f consultants estimated to cost
US$lOO,OOO or less per contract, the short list may consist entirely of national consultants if a minimumo f
three qualified ones are available.
           Individuals. Individuals will be recruited incases where a firm i s not needed. Such individuals will
be selected and recruited on the basis o f qualification and experience inaccordance with Bank Guidelines.
 7.        Incremental Recurrent Costs. The project would finance incremental recurrent costs up to an
 amount o f US$3.4 million equivalent. Incrementalrecurrent cost would include: (i)     expenditures for the
 operating costs o f the Development Learning Center, to a total aggregate o f US$1.2 million, (ii)
 expenditures for the contracting o f auxiliary personnel required for the implementation o f the project, to a
 total aggregate of US$1.3 million; (iii)  expenditures and supplies for the operation and maintenance o f
 facilities requiredfor the implementation o f the project (such as expenditures for office supplies, rental
 fees, services, operation and maintenance o f equipment financed out o f the proceeds o f the Credit, as well
 as for domestic and international travel and per diems relatedto project implementation activities, to a total
 aggregate o f US$O.9 million. All procurement withinthis category shall be done according to the Project
 Implementation Plan manual. The approval by IDA and the adoption by M o f o f this manual i s a condition
 o f effectiveness o f the Credit, and any amendment to such manual will have to be also acceptable to IDA.




                                                       - 52 -

Advertising
8.       A general procurement notice (GPN) will be prepared and issued upon Board Approval in the
United Nations Development Business listing all contracts above US$500,000 for works and US$250,000
for consultants. It would be updated annually for any outstanding major procurement. Specific
Procurement Notices for works to be procured -will be advertised in the national press o f wide distribution.
Requests for expression o f interest will be published in local newspapers and inthe UNDB for consultancy
contracts estimated to cost more than US$250,000. Responses will be recorded in a register established at
the BNP. Since a large portion o f the Credit funds will be used for technical assistance and consulting
assignments, early attention will be given to advance planning o f recruitment and timely search for
expressions o f interest through intemational advertising to obtain the best possible pool o f candidates from
which strong short lists can be compiled. The related biddingdocuments, as applicable, will not be released
-ortheshortlistforconsultant serviceswillnotbeprepared-beforeeightweeks aftertheGPNhasbeen
published. Specific procurement notices will be advertised in the national press o f wide circulation and
internationally for large contracts. Sufficient time will be allowed to obtain bid documents and to prepare
bids.

IDA Review
9.       All contracts for construction o f civil works above US$500,000 and for goods above US$250,000
will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The use o f IDA's standard bidding documents will
considerably expedite the prior review process as IDA review will primarily focus on invitations to bid, bid
data sheets, contract data, technical specifications, bill o f quantitieshchedule o f requirement and other
contract specific items. The review process would cover about 80 percent o f the total value o f the amount
contracted for works. Procurement post review o f contracts awarded below the threshold levels will apply
and should cover 20% o f contract in term o f number, in the event samples o f post reviews indicate major
problems, additional reviews, financed by the Borrower, should cover the remaining portion o f contracts.
Draft standard bidding documents for N C B will be reviewed and agreed upon with IDA prior to Credit
effectiveness.
 10.      For consultant services, prior review will include the review o f budgets, short-lists, selections
procedures, terms o f reference, letters o f invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and draft contracts. Prior
 IDA review will not apply to contracts for the recruitment o f consulting firms and individuals estimated to
 cost less than US$lOO,OOO and US$50,000 equivalent respectively. However, IDA prior review will apply
 to the Terms o f Reference o f such contracts, regardless o f value, to single-source hiring, to assignments o f
 a critical nature as determined by IDA or to amendments o f contracts raising the contract value above the
 prior review threshold. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO and more than US$50,000
 the borrower will notify IDA o f the results o f the technical evaluation prior to opening the financial
 proposals. Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the
 borrower for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions.             The Project Unit will be
 required to maintain all relevant procurement documentation for subsequent review by IDA. The Project
 Unit will submit to IDA periodic procurement schedules detailing each procurement package inprogress
 and completed as part o f the normal project reporting exercise.
 ProcurementImplementationArrangements
 11,      Procurement responsibility for the project rests with the respective services within BNP. BNP will
 be responsible for the quality o f these procurements and adherence to Bank procedures. The tasks o f BNP
 will comprise: (a) maintaining a register o f all interestedbidders; (b) maintaining a detailed list o f technical
 specifications o f goods and services to be financed by the project; (c) preparation o f the procurement plan
 and calendar; (d) preparation andor finalization o f pre-qualificationbidding documents and requests for
 proposals; (e) bid evaluation and preparation o f evaluation reports; (f) contract approval process; (g)


                                                        - 53 -

receipt o f goods and services and dispatching; and (h) processing intemational and local price quotations.

Procurement Capacity Assessment
12.      A procurement capacity assessment was conducted during project's appraisal, and the findings are
highlighted in the table below. During appraisal, assurance was given that BNP will: (a) recruit a
procurement specialist; (b) submit a draft procurement plan for the first year acceptable to IDA; and (c)
give assurance that it will (i)apply the agreed procurement procedures and arrangements; (ii) standard
                                                                                                use
bidding documents acceptable to the Bank (annexed to the Manual o f Procedures of the PIP); and (iii)
annually review the procurement plan with IDA.
                   Action Planto Strengthen BNP'sProcurementManagement Capacity

I1                          Tasks                            Resnonsibilitv                    Due Date
   Finalization o f nroiect Manual o f Procedures        II      BNP           II    Prior to oroiect effectiveness  II
  Establishment o f filing system                                 BNP                Prior to project effectiveness
   Recruitment o f Procurement Officer(s) for BNP                 BNP                Prior to project effectiveness


ProcurementPlan
  13.     The Procurement Plan for works, goods and services to be procured by BNP during the first
implementation year o f the project has been agreed between the Government and the Bank during
negotiations. It will be part o f the Project Implementation Plan (to be approved by Government and
acceptable to the Bank before credit effectiveness). For each subsequent year, the procurement plan related
to the agreed Annual Work Program will be updated and submitted to the Bank for review and approval.
These plans show and will show the step-by-step procedures for procurement, contract packages for goods,
works and consultants services and training, estimated cost and the procurementhelection method, the
activities which follow procurement, such as manufacture, shipment, delivery and installation o f goods;
mobilization, construction and completion o f works. It is mandatory that all procurement be carried out in
accordance with the formally agreed procurement plan (original and formally up-dated). Therefore, for the
purpose o f this project, agreed Procurement Plans will determine procurement methods and it i s not
necessary to set up aggregate total amounts.




                                                     - 54 -

            Table A: Project(US$
                             Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                million equivalent)




6. PPF                     0.00              0.00       1.58     0.00      1.58
                          (0.00)            (0.00)     (1.58)    (0.00)   (1.58)
   Total                   2.75              8.77      46.48      0.00    58.00
                          (1.40)            (4.40)     (24.20)   (0.00)  (30.00)




                                     -55 -

                     Table A I: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                        (US$ million equivalent)




                          (13.32)    (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.00)    (4.80)     (0.90)   (0.00)     (19.02)
B. Individuals
                           (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)     (1.30)   (0.00)     (1.30)
                  Total    23.16                          0.00      13.00     2.80                 38.96
                          (13.32)    (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.00)    (4.80)  I  (2.20) I (0.00) I   (20.32) I
I\Includingcontingencies

          Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                QBS = Quality-based Selection
                SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
                Commercial Practices, etc.
                N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                Figures in parenthesesare the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.




                                                   - 56 -

Prior review thresholds (Table B)



Goods costing more than US$250,000 and works costingmore than US$500,000per contract per contract
will be subject to prior review by IDA. All other contracts will be subjectedto post review.

All procurement documents for consulting contracts with firms for amounts exceeding US$100,000 per
contract selected on the basis of a short list and any contract involving individual consultants exceeding
US$50,000 per contract will be subject to prior review by IDA. In addition, for consultant contracts with
firms exceeding US$lOO,OOO per contract, the technical evaluationreport will also be requiredby IDA for
prior review. All other contracts will be subjectedto post-review.

                   Table 6: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'

                                                                                            Contracts Subject to
                                                                                                 Prior Review
                                                                                                 (US$ million)
                                    Higher than 50                     NCB                        DLC (0.6)
                                      Less than 50                Price auotations                  None
 2. Goods                        Higher or equal to 250                 ICB                       All (1.3 1)
                                         50-250                    NCB, IAPSO                    IAPSO (0.2)
                                      Less than 50               National Shopping                   None
 3. Services
 Consultants, training,
 workshops, other services
 a) Firms                           Higher than 100                   QCBS                        All (14.65)
                                       Below 100                 QCBS, CQ, Other                     None
 b) Individuals
                                    Higher than 50                       IC                         All (1.1)
                                        Below 50                         IC                          None

                 Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$18.0million
                           Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:           Average
       Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed: Oneevery six months
                                                                          (includes special procurement supervision for
                                                                          post-review/audits)


 "Thresholds generally differ by country andproject. Consult "Assessment of Agency'sCapacity to Implement
  Procurement"and contactthe Regional ProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                     - 57 -

              Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
               MADAGASCAR: Governance and Institutional Development Project

FinancialManagement
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagementAssessment

Countrv issues. The CFAA diagnostic completed in June 2003 determined that the country public financial
management including budgeting, financial accounting and auditing systems poses a major fiduciary risk.
The designation o f the BNP to assure the implementation o f this project is therefore appropriate given its
considerable experience in managing World Bank funds in operations o f this nature. The CPFA (Country
Profile o f Financial Accountability) carried out in September 1998 confirmed also the weak capacity o f the
accounting profession in Madagascar. A number o f accounting firms were operating below the
international standards due to the lack o f regulatory framework, proper accounting and auditing standards,
clearly defined guidelines and procedures for systematic peer reviews, continuing education requirements,
quality control mechanisms to harmonize methodology. To improve the capacity and the competitiveness of
the local auditing firms, the following measures have beentaken: (i)    obligation for local auditors to enter
into partnership with international accounting firms while auditing BanWIDA financed projects in order to
improve the quality o f audit reports and ensure practical training and real transfer o f methodology in the
areas of organization and execution o f audit assignments; and (ii) use o f QCBS method rather than
                                                                       the
Least Cost for the recruitment of auditors.

Strengths and weaknesses. The BNP has the following strengths inthe area o f financial management: (i)      a
strong experience in managing World Bank funds for being responsible for the implementation of the
Public Management Capacity Building Project (PAIGEP I) closed in December 2002: the staff in
                                                               which
place i s qualified with practical accounting experience and very knowledgeable with the Bank procedures;
(ii) neworganizationalstructurerecentlyapproveddefinesthelinesofresponsibilitiesandauthoritythat
    the
exist and provides an overall framework for planning, coordinating and controlling operations; (iii)      the
accounting system in place follows generally accounting standards acceptable to the Bank; (iv) the project
internal controls are globally satisfactory: proper authorization to initiate and execute transactions,
appropriate segregation o f duties, appropriate documentation and records, adequate measures for
safeguarding assets (fixed assets, furniture, cash and bank balances); and (v) audit reports for the previous
project (PAIGEP I)    have always been received in time with unqualified opinions. The main deficiencies
noted inthe systemare the following: (i)    Chart of accounts not yet updated to reflect the new components
and activities described in the PAD; (ii) integration of the accounting system with all other financial
                                            non
management systems such as budgeting, treasury and fixed assets management; and (iii)        incapacity of the
existing accounting software -- still running on MS-DOS     -- to produce the project financial statements as
well as quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) with the designed format presentedinthe Annex A
of the FMR Guidelines issued in November 30, 2001, by the World Bank. These weaknesses are
summarized inthe following table which also provides relevant measuresto address them.




                                                     - 58 -

I               SignificantWeaknesses                   I                            Resolution                       I

  Chart of accounts not reflecting yet the project        Review of the chart of accounts to reflect new components and
  components and activities outlined inthe PAD.           activities outlined in the PAD in order to facilitate budget
                                                          monitoring and ensure timely production of both financial
                                                          statementsand FMRs.
 Accounting manual of proceduresnot updatedyet            Invitation of the consultant having implemented the previous
 to reflect the new organizational structure,             accounting manual o f proceduresto bring necessary update and
 the   new Chart of accounts, the outline of the          to provide users training.
 new F M system to be implemented, the format and
 content of FMRs
 Non integration of the accounting system with all        Recruitment o f a consultant in charge of the design and
 other financial managementsystems suchas                 implementation of a new computerized system fully integrated
 budgeting, treasury and fixed assets management.         and capable of producing timely financial statements and
                                                          quarterly FMRs.
 Incapacity of the project financial management
 systemto produce automatically financial                 Users training.
 statementsand auarterlv FMRs.
 Vacancy in procurement.                                  Recruitment of a procurement specialist.
 Absence of acceptable arrangementinauditing.             Recruitment of an accounting firm acceptable to IDA to carry
                                                          out the audit of project accounts.

 To help the accounting staff in performing their duties, a new accounting manual o f procedures has been
 developed; in addition, the new computerized system will be functional before project implementation
 begins.

 Implementing entitv.

 The Government o f Madagascar        - through the Office o f the President and the Chief of Staff   -would be
 responsible for ensuring that the project is undertaken as planned. The institutional arrangements build on
 PAIGEP I:    The goveming body for the project i s the Steering Committee which consists o f the Permanent
 Secretaries o f all involved ministries and institutions. The Steering Committee will coordinate the reforms
 and advise the Chief o f Staff in the Presidency on design and implementation issues.               The Steering
 Committee members are accountable for the timely and decisive implementation o f the reforms in their
 respective area o f responsibility. The Steering Committee i s chaired by a Project Coordinator who is a
 seasoned and experienced practitioner. The Coordinator directly reports to the Chief o f Staff.            The
 day-to-day management o f the implementation activities would be ensured by the Project Secretariat
 (Bureau National du Projet, BNP) which consists o f qualified technical staff. The BNP is headed by a
 Director who reports to the Project Coordinator.

 The role o f the BNP and o f the Project Coordinator i s to catalyze, monitor & evaluate the implementation
 o f the various components and sub-components, to ensure the integration o f donor activities, to maintain
 the project accounts, to manage disbursements and to publish financial and progress reports on a regular
 basis.   The BNP will contract out all consultancy assignments.             At the level of the ministries and
 institutions project implementation teams would be set up to operationalize the reforms. These teams
 report to the Permanent Secretary.




                                                       - 59 -

Funds-flow.

The flow o f funds from IDA credit and the govemment i s presented as follows :


                                                    h m n t
                    (Credit funds)                  (Counterpart funds)
                   II

                                     BNP:
                                     Specd Account
                                     Project Accourd




                               Suppliers o f goods, wmks and
                               services


To ensure timely and reliable flow o f funds, a special account will be opened ina local commercial bank
under conditions satisfactory to IDA. The contractors/suppliers will submit their invoices to the BNP who
will pay them after appropriate authorization and approval. The special account would be replenished on
the basis o f documentary evidence, provided to IDA by the BNP, justifyingthe payments made from the
account for works, goods and services that are eligible for financing under the credit. All supporting
documents will be retained by the BNP and made available for review by periodic Bank supervision
missions and external auditors.

StaffinR. The finance and accounting function i s headed by a Chief accountant supported by an assistant.
The accounting staff in place is qualified and has both relevant training and experience to discharge
efficiently their assigned responsibilities. On the other hand a procurement specialist needs to be recruited.
The recruitment o f this key-staff should be completed prior to effectiveness.
Accounting Policies and Procedures. The accounting system in place uses journals, ledgers and trial
balances to enter and summarize transactions. It operates on a double entry accrual principles and follows
generally accounting standards acceptable to the Bank. The financial statements are prepared under the
historical cost convention. Project accounts will be maintained in Malagasy currency (FMG). As a result,
the opening and closing balances o f the Special Account (SA) held in US$ should therefore be translated at
the rate ruling respectively on the opening and closing dates. Expenditures made out o f the SA should be
stated at the rate ruling on the transaction dates. The actual exchange rates used should be disclosed.

Fixed assets bought for use by the BNP will be depreciated at the following rates:
         Furniture and equipment: 20%
         Vehicles: 20%
         Computers: 30%
Whereas consumable stores are written o f f on purchase.




                                                      - 60 -

To ensure timely production o f        both financial statements and    FMRs in compliance with IDA
requirements, the current chart o f accounts will be reviewed and a consultant will be recruited for the
design and implementation o f a new computerized system. The existing accounting manual o f procedures
will be also updated to provide all relevant information to facilitate adequate record keeping and the
maintenance o f proper control over assets.
Reporting and Monitorina. The BNP will put inplace a computerized financial management system
capable o f producing the following reports :
1.Annualfinancial statements comprising:

   a) Summary o f sources and uses o f h d s by componentslproject activities with a balance sheet;
   b) Special Accounts statements;
   c) Statement o f Expenditures;
   d) Other relevant financial reports required for the project management.

2. Quarterly FMRs

The FMRs comprises a financial reports, physical progress reports and procurement reports to facilitate
project monitoring. The FMRs should be submitted to IDA within 45 days o f the end o f the reporting
period (quarter). Models of these reports will be determined as part o f project appraisal and be agreed at
negotiations. Their content and format will be presented inthe project accounting manual o f procedures.

Information Svstems. The project will use a computerized and integrated financial management system
capable o f recording and producing in a timely manner financial reports required for managing and
monitoring project activities. This computerized system would inparticular facilitate: annual programming
o f activities and project resources, record-keeping (general accounting and cost accounting) financial and
budgetary management o f the project, fured assets management, procurement management, follow-up o f
project implementation progress, monitoring o f key indicators to assess the results and impact o f the
project, preparation of quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports as required by the BankiIDA.The TORSo f
the consultant in charge o f the design and implementation o f this computerized system has been reviewed
by the Bank Financial Management Specialist. This computerized system will be fully functional before
project implementation begins.
Impact of Procurement arrangements. Apart from the vacancy in procurement, procurement arrangements
do not present substantial risk.

Action Plan.

The present action plan agreed with the borrower describes main actions to be taken to strengthen the BNP
financial management system and to buildits capacity to produce quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports.




                                                      -61 -

                              Actions                            Datedue bv               Responsible
1  Agreement on terms o freference for external auditor          Completed               BNP/ IDA
   and consultants incharge o fthe update o fthe
   accounting manual o fprocedures and the
   implementation o f the new computerized system.
2  Invitation o f the consultant having implemented the          Completed                  BNP
  previous manual o f procedures to submit his financial
  proposal.
3  Finalization and issuance o f the Request for Proposal      Completed                    BNP
   (RFP) concerning the provision o f services for the design
   and implementation o f a new computerized system.
4 Negotiations and award o f the contract to the consultant      Completed                  BNP
   invited to update the accounting manual o f procedures
5   Consultant starts the update o f the accounting manual
    o fprocedures:
   0   First draft o f the manual for BNP and IDA                Completed               Consultant
   comments
   0   Final draft incorporating BNP and IDA comments;           Completed               Consultant
   0   Implementationof the manual o f procedures and
   users training.                                               10/31/2003              Consultant
6   Reception o f proposals, evaluation, negotiation and         10/3112003                 BNP
    award o f the contract to the firm selected to implement
    the new comtmterized svstem.
7   Recruitment process o f external auditors:
   0   Finalization and issuance o f the Request for Proposal
   (RFP);                                                        Completed                  BNP
   0   Reception o f proposals, evaluation, selection;           10/24/2003                 BNP

   0   Appointment o f external auditors                         10/28/2003               BNPIIDA
8   Consultant starts the design andimplementation o f the
    new computerized system:
   0   Installation o f the computerized system                  11/30/2003              Consultant
   0    System testing to ensure compliance with                 12/15/2003              Consultant
   management's expectations and IDA specifications:
   0   Corrective actions and retesting;                         12/22/2003              Consultant

   0   Complete users training and start operating the           01/09/2004              Consultant
   system;
   0   Obtain user acceptance and approval                       01/12/2004                 BNP


9   Production o f the first FMRs (Jan, Feb, March 2003)         0511512004                   BNP
    and submit them to the Bank.




Supervision Plan. Periodic review o f the implementationprogress will be carried out by the Project team.



                                                    - 62 -

2. Audit Arrangements
 Internal Audit.    Since the project organizational structure is centralized, no intemal audit function is
required at the present time. However, to ensure the efficient use o f funds, the Chief accountant o f the BNP
and the Monitoring & Evaluation specialist could play the role o f internal auditors. For this purpose they
will carry out periodic controls to ensure that: (i) project is complying with the Bank procedures (in
                                                     the
procurement, financial management, disbursement) and agreements described in the procedures manual/
DCA; (ii)  assets financed under the credit are adequately protected.

External Audit. The project financial statements will be audited annually by independent and qualified
auditors acceptable to IDA, in accordance with International Standards o f Auditing. The auditors will
provide a single audit opinion on the annual financial statements for each operation it supports. The
auditors will be also required to carry out a comprehensive review o f the intemal control procedures and
provide a management report outlining any recommendations for their improvement. The audit report will
be submitted to IDA not later than 6 months after the end o f each fiscal year. The auditors should be
recruitedprior to Board presentation. The terms o f reference o f the audit will be reviewed by the financial
management specialist o f the Bank/IDA.


3. DisbursementArrangements

 Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The credit would be disbursedover a period o f 60 months (the Project completion date would be December
31,2008 and the Credit closing date i s June 30,2009), as follows: (i) percent o f foreign and 80 percent
                                                                         100
o f local expenditures for contract works; (ii)100percent o f foreign and 80 percent o f local expenditures for
goods; (iii) 85 percent o f foreign and 75% o f local expenditures for consultancies (including audits); (iv)
100 percent for training and seminars; and (v) 85 percent for incremental operating costs. Disbursement o f
Credit proceeds would be made against six categories (base costs): (i)   contract works (US$4.0 million); (ii)
goods (US8.48 million); (iii)  consulting contracts (US$26.22 million); (iv) training and workshops (US$9.2
million); and (v) incremental operating costs (US$3.4 million). A Project Preparation Facility was
requested for an amount o f US$1.58 million.




                                                     - 63 -

 Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)

                                 Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds

I           Expenditure Category           IAmount    in US$million   I         Financing Percentage
                                                       2.40             100 percent o f foreign and 80 percent o f
 1.Works                                    I                                      local exuenditures
 2. Goods                                              4.60             100 percent o f foreign and 80 percent o f
                                                                                   local expenditures
 3. Consultants' Services and Audits                  16.12             85 percent o f foreign and 75 percent o f
                                                                                   local exuenditures
14. Traininn                                I          4.20           I       100 Dercent o f exDenditures        I
 5. Recurrent costs                                    1.10                    85 percent o f expenditures
 6. PPF refinancing                                    1.58

 Total Project Costs with Bank                        30.00
 Financing
 Total                                                30.00

 DisbursementArrangements:

Method of Disbursement. The borrower will use transaction-based disbursements (traditional mode) in
 accordance with procedures outlined inthe Bank's Disbursement Handbook.

 Minimum Application Size. The minimumapplication size for direct payments and special commitments to
 be withdrawn directly from the Credit Account is US$400,000, representing 20% o f the special account
 authorized allocation.


  Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
 Disbursements will be made against Statement o f Expenses (SOEs) for contracts and goods not requiring
 the Bank's prior review. Therefore disbursements for all contracts for: goods of less than US$250,000, for
 works o f less than US$500,000, for consulting services, training and publications by firms and individuals
 o f less than US$lOO,OOO and US$50,000 respectively; and all incremental operating expenses, and training
 would be made on the basis o f SOEs and certified by the BNP. SOE statements will be audited annually by
 independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. All SOEs supporting documentation will be kept therefore by
 the BNP and made available for review by Bank supervision missions and external auditors.

  Special account:
 Payments from the Credit proceeds would be administered by the BNP from a Special Account. The
 Special Account would be maintained in U S dollars in a commercial bank selected by the Borrower and
 acceptable to the World Bank. The authorized allocation, sufficient for about four months o f eligible
 expenditures, would be US$2,000,000; however, the initial allocation would be limited to US$l,OOO,OOO
 untilthe aggregate amount o f withdrawals from the Credit Account plusthe total amount o f all outstanding
 special commitments entered into the Bank shall be equal to or exceed SDR 2,200,000. The Special
 Account would be managed by the BNP which would be responsible for preparing disbursement requests.



                                                   - 64 -

These requests would be submitted on a monthly basis. Replenishment requests would be submitted at least
on a monthly basis and would be supported by reconciled bank statements and other required documents.
Disbursements will be made under the authorized signature from a designated representative of the
Borrower. The Special Account would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.




                                                - 65 -

                               Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule
             MADAGASCAR: Governance and Institutional Development Project



Time taken to prepare the project (months)                  14                                 26
 First Bank mission (identification)                        11/01/2001                         11/01/2001
/Appraisal mission departure                       I        0811512002               I         0811812003       I
 Negotiations                                               0911012002                         09/04/2003
 Planned Date of Effectiveness                              01101l2003                         01IO1I2004

Prepared by:
GuenterHeidenhof(TTL, AFTPR)


Preparation assistance:
    A Japan PHRD grant for US$203,000 (TF026791) was received and used for project preparation by
    the recipient for the following preparation activities: (a) a review of system of public finance, (b) a
    proposal for an integrated monitoring & evaluation system, (c) the development o f systems and
    procedures for pro-poor inter-governmental transfers that would ensure the availability of adequate
    resources for the various levels o f Government, (d) a comprehensive training plan for local
    governments in all relevant areas o f financial management, and (e) an institutional analysis of training
     institutions in Madagascar which could provide training to public officials. The grant was successfully
     executed by the project implementing agency. All planned outputs were completed, in part with
     complementary hndingthrough a Project Preparation Facility.

Bank staff who worked on the projec included:
           Name                                             Speciality
 Guenter Heidenhof (AFTPR)                  Team Leader
 Dieudonne Randriamanampisoa                Public finance and institutional reforms, economic analysis
 (AFTPl)
 Jesko Hentschel (AFTPl)                    Economic reforms, link to macroeconomic program
 Catherine Laurent (MNSED)                  Public finance reforms
 Emile Finateu(AFTFM)                       Public finance reforms
 Bertrand de Chazal (AFTFM)                 Public finance reforms, linkto the CFAA
 Gervais Rakotoarimanana (AFTFM)            Financial management
 Slaheddine Ben-Halima (AFTPC)              Procument reform
 Sylvain Rambeloson (AFTPC)                 Procurement andprocurement reform
 Jean-Marc Baissus (LEGLR)                  Justice reform
 Wolfgang Fengler (AFTPl)                   Decentralization
 Frank-Borge Wietzke (AFTPl)                Decentralization
 Maryanne Sharp (AFCMG)                     Decentralization, project management
 Raj Soopramanien (LEGMS)                   Justice reform, anti-corruption activities
 Jean-Eric Rakotoarisoa (Consultant)        Justice reform
 Madeleine Chungkong (AFTPR)                Project management, team assistance


                                                     - 66 -

Mavo Ranaivoarivelo (AFC08)       Project management, team assistance
Lanto Ramanankasina (AFC08)       Project management, team assistance
Pierre Demangel (MNSED)           Peer reviewer
Jan Walliser (AFTP4)               Peer reviewer
Odile Keller (PEFA Secretariat)   Advisor, public finance reforms




                                             - 67 -

                              Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
            MADAGASCAR: Governance and institutional Development Project


A. ProjectImplementation Plan
Work plan, detailed project descriptions, comprehensive cost estimates, procurement plan for year 1 o f
project implementation

B. Bank Staff Assessments
Country Financial Accountability Assessment, June 2003
Country Procurement Assessment review, June 2003

C. Other
Madagascar PRSP and action plan, updated July 2003
Country Assistance Strategy for Madagascar, upstream review (draft), July 2003
Interim Country Assistance Strategy for Madagascar, October 2002
ImplementationCompletion Report o f Public Management Capacity BuildingProject, June 2003
Implementation Completion Report o f Structural Adjustment Credit 11, June 2003
Reports o f the Cellule de Riforme et de Renforcement des Organes des Contrdes (CRROC), March 2003
Feasibility study for the strengthening o f the internal control mechanisms, January 2003
Feasibility study for the Development Learning Center, November 2002
Development o f a pro-poor transfer system study, January 2003
Feasibility study and cost estimates for the integrated financial management system, March 2003
Strengthening o f the monitoring & evaluation system inMadagascar, UNDP study, April 2003
Concept and evaluation reports for the pilot integrated financial management system inToamasina, April
2002 and 2003
Madagascar: Decentralization, ESW June 2003
Madagascar: Poverty and Socio Economic Developments: 1993-1999, ESW, December 2001
Changes in Poverty in Madagascar: 1993-1999, ESW, July 2001
MinistryofJustice, Work program2003
Government o f Madagascar, National Governance Program, workshop results, January 1998
Democracy and Governance, Strategic Assessment for USAID/Madagascar Integrated Country Strategic
Plan (FY2003-2008), June 2003
Transparency International: National Integrity Survey, Report April 2002
Madagascar: Public finance administration, IMF review, September 1998




*Including electronic files




                                                      - 68 -

                                            Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                     MADAGASCAR:Governance and Institutional Development Project
                                                                 24-Sep-2003
                                                                                                                             Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                      and actual
                                                                        Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                            iBRD        IDA                        Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO80345     2003 Emergency Economic Recovery Credit                     0.00     50.00                         0.00       0.00        0.00      0.00
PO76245     2003 MINERAL RESOURCES GOVERNANCE PROJECT                   0.00     32.00                         0.00     32.01         0.60      0.00
PO73689     2003 Rural Transport Project - APL - Phase2                 0.00     80.00                         0.00     82.82         4.15      0.00
PO72160     2002 Second Private Sector Development Projec               0.00     23.80                         0.00     23.97         8.66      0.00
PO72987     2002 Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS                             0.00     20.00                         0.00     17.26        -2.62      0.00
PO55166     2001 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                          0.00     110.00                        0.00     72.05       -10.30      0.00
PO51922     2001 MG .Rural  Development Support Project                 0.00     89.05                         0.00     82.90       -12.96      0.00
P052208     2000 Transport Sector Reform and Rehabilltat.               0.00      65.00                        0.00     27.98        10.39      0.00
PO51741     2000 Second Health Sector Support Project                   0.00     40.00                         0.00     22.48         8.31      0.00
PO52186     1999 MICRO FINANCE                                          0.00      16.40                        0.00       7.09        4.97      0.00
PO01559     1998 EDUCATION SECTOR DEV                                   0.00      65.00                        0.00     26.56        26.86      0.73
PO01564     1998 RURAL WATER SEC.PIL0                                   0.00      17.30                         0.00      8.97        9.05      0.00
PO01568     1998 NUTRITION II                                           0.00      27.60                         0.00      2.76        3.07      0.00
P048697     1997 URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE                                   0.00      35.00                         0.00     11.13       11.68      9.33
PO01533     1996 MG ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                   0.00      46.00                         0.00      6.85       10.23      3.41

                                                                    ~


                                                          Total:       000       71715                         0.00     424.82       72.09      13.47




                                                                MADAGASCAR
                                                           STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                         Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                                                June 30 2003-
                                                              InMillions USDollars

                                                                                     Committed                                Disbursed


     FY Approval                Company                                   Loan      Equity     Quasi     Partic     Loan     Equity        Quasi     Partic
     1990191                    AEF FIARO                                  0.00        0.19      0.00      0.00     0.00         0.19       0.00       0.00
     1997                       AEF GHM                                    0.78        0.00      0.00      0.00     0.78        0.00        0.00       0.00
     1995                       AEF Karibotel                              0.22        0.00      0.00      0.00     0.22         0.00       0.00       0.00
     1992193195                 AQUALMA                                    0.43        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.43        0.00       0.00       0.00
     1991                       BNI                                        0.00        2.61      0.00      0.00      0.00        2.61       0.00       0.00
     2000                       BOA-M                                      0.00        0.82      0.65      0.00      0.00        0.82       0.65       0.00
     1983189                    Nossi-Be                                   0.00        0.14      0.00      0.00      0.00        0.14       0.00       0.00
                                           Total Portfolio:                1.43        3.76       0.65     0.00       1.43       3.76        0.65       0.00



                                                                              Auorovals PendineCommitment
     FY Approval                Company                                      Loan        Equity        Quasi      Partic
     2001                       Besalampy                                     0.02         0.00         0.00        0.00
     2001                       COTONA111                                     0.01         0.00         0.00        0.00

                                Total PendingCommitment:                      0.02         0.00         0.00        0.00




                                                                        - 69 -

                                                     Annex IO: Country at a Glance
                   MADAGASCAR: Governance and Institutional Development Project
                                     Madagascar at a glance                                                                           913103

                                                                       Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                   Saharan        Low-
                                                     Madagascar       Africa     income        Developmentdiamond.
2002
Population,mid-year (miliions)                                16.4      674        2,511
GNi per capita (Atlas method, US$)                            240       470             430                 Lifeexpectancy
                                                                                                                  T
GNi (Atias method, US$billions)                                4.0      317        1,069
Average annual growth, 1996.02
Population 1%)                                                 3.0          2.5         1.9
Laborforce (77)                                                3.2          2.6         2.3    SNi                                  Gross

Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                          Der                                primary
                                                                                               apita                             nroilment
Poverty(% ofpopulation below nationalpoverty line)             69
Urban population(% oftotalpopulation)                          31           32           31
Lie expectancyat birth (years)                                 55           47           59                       1
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                        64           91           76
Chiid malnutrition(% of childrenunder 5)                       33                                   Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)             25           55           76
illiteracy (% ofpopulationape 15+)                             32           37           37
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)           102           76           96          -Madagascar
    Male                                                      104           65          103                   Low-incomegroup
    Female                                                    100           72           66

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1982       1992      2001        2002
GDP (US$ billions)                                                          4.5         4.6
Gross domesticinvestmenffGDP                                            16.5            14.3
Exportsof goods and services1GDP                                        29.1            16.0                    Trade
Gross domestic savings1GDP                                              15.3            7.7
Gross nationalsavings1GDP                                               17.2            6.3
Current acwunt baiance1GDP                                              -1.3            -5.9
interest payments1GDP
Total debffGDP                                                          91.9            94.2
Total debt service1exports                         26.4       15.6      11.6            21.9                                                II
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                46.4            49.9
Presentvalue of debffexports                                          163.5        301.1
                                                                                                              indebtedness
                                       1982-92 1992.02       2001      2002      2002-06
(averageannual growth)
GDP                                        1.5      2.5        6.0     -12.7            6.3            -Madagascar
GDP per capita                            -1.2     -0.5        3.0     -15.2             5.6                   Low-incomegroup
Exportsof goodsand services                2.6      2.1        6.0     -43.7            15.7


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                                                                                    I
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                        34.2      112.4      26.6            32.1   40

Industry                                           13.4       46.3      14.7            13.3   20
   Manufacturing                                      ..      40.3      12.6            11.3     0
Services                                           52.4     225.5       56.7            54.7   2 0
Privateconsumption                                               ..     76.4            64.2   401                                     \

Generalgovernment consumption                                               6.3          6.2
imports of goods and services                                    ..     32.3            22.6             -GDI            -GDP




iaveraoe annual arowthl                        1982-92 1992-02                     zooz        Growth of exports and Imports (Oh)
                                                                                                                                            I
Agriculture                                         2.5        1.9          4.0         -1.6      T                                         LI
                                                                                                                                            I
                                                    2.7        2.5          7.6    -20.6    I1''
Industry                                                                                       2o
   Manufacturing                                    0.6        2.9      10.7
Services                                            1.0        3.0          6.1    1:;::      12:

Private consumption                                 0.1        2.9
General governmentconsumption                       0.1        1.4      1;:;       -%
Gross domesticinvestment
imports of goods and services                       5.2        5.6      22.6       -31.4
                                                   -2.4        5.4      11.6       -31.0               -Exports          *Imports



Note: 2002 data are preliminaryestimates. Group data are through 2001.
*The diamondsshow four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. if data are missing,the diamond will
    be incomplete.




                                                                               - 70 -

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1982    1992    2001    2002
Domestic prices                                                           Inflation(Oh)
(% change)                                                                                                                  I
Consumer prices                                 15.3      7.4   15.8
Implicit GDP deflator                                     7.3   15.4
                                                                         1
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                         11.6      8.8               97    B8      B9       a0      0,     hl
Current budgetbalance                                     0.5    -1.5
Overall surpluddeficit                                   -6.4    -6.7     O        -GDP       deflator   ' O ' C P I


TRADE
                                        1982    1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                             Export and Importlevels (US$ mlll.)
Total exports (fob)                      284     324     965     499       ,200                                             I
                                                                                T
 Coffee                                   94     32         3       3
 Vanilla                                   3     51      164     120
 Manufactures                                    158     572     313
Total imports rcifl                      552     547   1.118     729
 Food                                    128     58       84      61
 Fuel and enerqv                         134     72      168     217
 Capital qoods                           117     129     164      92
Export price index (1995.100)            104      91     131     135              98   97    98     99     00     01

import priceindex (1995=100)                      92      94      95                       Exports            Imports
Terms of trade (7995=1001                         98     140     142

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                        1982    1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                           1 Current account balanceto GDP (%)                I
Exports of aoods and services            377     496    1,317    730
Imports of qoods and services            656     733    1,462  1,029
Resource balance                        -280    -237    -146    -299
Net income                               N/A    -134      -59     -70
Net currenttransfers                       7     163      146     99
Current account balance                  N/A    -209      -59   -271
Financinqitems (net)                             228      157    218
Chanqesin net reserves                   NIA     -17      -98     53
Memo:
Reservesincludinqsold (US$ millions)     N/A      85     398     363
Conversionrate (DEC. iocal/US$J         349.7 1,864.0 6,591.5 6,592.3

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                        1982    1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                             Composltlon of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandinqand disbursed     1,933  3.911   4,159   4,296
  IBRD                                    31      20        0       0
  IDA                                    187     887    1,409   1,652    I            F,7o G: 239


Total debt service                       110      96      156     166
  IBRD                                      3      4        0       0
  IDA                                       2     10       30      32
Compositionof net resource flows
  Officialarants                          88     126       89      66
  Officialcreditors                      199      85
  Privatecreditors                        48      -8
  Foreiqndirect investment                                 58       4
  Portfolioeauitv                                                                                       D:442

World Bank program
  Commitments                             32      24      243     130      A - IBRD                           E -Bilateral
  Disbursements                           34      37       97     163      8 IDA      D .Other multilateral   F Pnvate
                                                                                                                .
  Principalrepavments                       1      7       19      21      C IMF
                                                                             --                               0. Short-term
  Net flows                               33      31       78     143
  Interestpavments                          3      8       11      11
  Net transfen                            29      23       67     132


DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                                   9/3/03




                                                             -71  -

             Additional Annex 11: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
        MADAGASCAR: Governance and Institutional Development Project


 LEPREMtERRIINISTRE,                      REPWBLIQUEDEMADAGASCAR
CHEF DUGOUVERNEMENT                         7unindra;rara Fahufuhmta PimaPosm
                                                           -          -
                                          Ars'TML4"VQ, le35 Acdt 2003
W J 5 G l P M l S P l G

                                          Monsieur le Directeurdes PpQrations
                                          de le Banqur Mondiale pour les Seylchefles
                                          Maurice et Madagascar

                                          $01-ANTANANARIVO


Qbiet Lettredepolitiqueen matibrede BonneGouvernanceet de Ddveloppement
       lnstrtutronnel

MonsieurleDire&eur,

Je vous prie de tmuver ci-joint la Eettre de palitiqw en matiere de Bonne
Gcuvemance et de Devetoppementlnstitutionneldu Gouvemementde Madagaecar.

Cette Is#mde politlquese r4fbre au premier axe principal du Document Sti-at&gique
pour la R(?ductionde la FauvrrttE!(DSRP) qui vise Ea restauratbnd'un Etatde droit et
la bOnne gouvsrnance

Le renfoorcement des acquis du Projet d'kppui lnstitutiannalB la Gestion Publique
(PAIGEP) au niveau du Minist&fede I'Ewnomie des Finances et du Budget et du
Ministere de la Justice, qui avsit dejA b&n&fici&de I`appui financier de la Banque
Mmdiale, est essentiel t4 Ea mise en o~uvr@ la bonne gouvemancedans laquelle
                                             de
le Oouvemement s`sngage.
                                 -L

Aussi, je remercie vatre institutionde sa dispanibilitl! a maintenir son appui dans CB
damsline.

Vu I'impadance de ce`t ax0 strat4gique, !e Gouvernement sauhaite que les
negodations de t'awecrtcf en we du Programme pour la Banne Gouvernance, le
DCveloppement lnstitutionnel et la Reduction de la Pauvretti (PGDI) puisse se tenir
#ana les meilleursdCIlais possibtes.
Veuillez agrber, Monsieur le Diredeur, i'expression de ma considWtion distingute




                                               - 72 -

                                                                             Unofficial Translation


PRIME MINISTER,                                       REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
HEAD OF GOVERNMENT                                    Tanindrazana-Fahafahana-Fandrosoana

                                                      ANTANANARIVO, August 28,2003

No. 1566lPMlSPlG

                                               To:    Country Director
                                                      for Seychelles, Mauritius and Madagascar

                                                      101- ANTANANARIVO


                            Subject: Letter of Development Policy for the
                         Governance and InstitutionalDevelopment Project

Dear Sir,

Please find attached the Letter o f Development Policy relatedto the Governance and Institutional
Development Project for Madagascar.

This letter o f development policy aims at the first main line of action inthe PRSP which focuses
on restoring the rule o f law and on establishing good governance.

The support, through the Governance and Institutional Development Project (PAIGEP), to the
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget, and to the Ministry of Justice, who have already
benefited financial support from IDA, is key to implementing policies of good governance to
which the Government i s hlly committed.

Hence, Iexpress my thanks to your institution for its readiness to provide support inthis area.

Giventhe importance of this strategic area, it is the Government's wishes that the negotiations of
the agreement on the Governance and Institutional Development Project could take place as soon
as possible.


                                              Sincerely,


                                      (Signed) Jacques SYLLA




                                                - 73 -

                                        THE GOVERNMENT

                            OF THE REPUBLIC OFMADAGASCAR

 LETTER OF GOOD GOVERNANCE AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT POLICY


1. The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) adopted by the Government o f Madagascar inthe
    first half o f 2003 contains the Government's strategy and action plan for speeding up economic
   development and halving within ten years the incidence o f poverty, currently about 70 percent
    and particularly high among the rural population. The strategy focuses on the following three
   main lines o f action:

   (i)      restoring the rule o f law and establishing good govemance as a social norm;
    (ii)    rekindling and fostering economic growth by substantially enhancing its social base; and
    (iii)   encouraging the development o f systems that ensure the safety o f persons and property
            and provide social protection.

    This strategy, developed through a participatory process that has involved all o f the vital
    elements o f the country, inparticular civil society, the private sector, local elected officials, and
    public administration, was formulated by government agencies as part o f operational plans
    encompassing the programs o f action o f the ministries for the next five years.

2.  As regards the first line o f action, which aims at good govemance, the Government intends to
    continue, strengthen and accelerate measures and reforms launched a few years ago. Indeed,
    since the 1990s and especially since the resumption o f activities after the socio-political crisis
    that rocked the country in the first half o f 2002, the Government has been buildingthe capacities
    o f its agencies in order to improve the economic management system and public administration,
    especially with regard to the management o f public finances, the decentralization process, civil
    service reform, legal- andjudicial-system reform, and the economic information system. These
    measures have been supported by the Intemational Development Association (IDA) since 1996
    through the Public Management Institutional Support Project (PAIGEP) whose closing date was
    December 31,2002. They made it possible to place the macroeconomic framework on a sounder
    footing through rigorous budgetary and monetary policies, liberalize the market and prices,
    disengage the Government from the productive sectors, and refocus the State's mission (over and
    above its fundamental prerogatives) on functions aimed at regulating and easing the way for
    private sector initiatives.       The results have been encouraging but insufficient.            Some
    achievements were even weakened by the crisis o f 2002.

3.  The Govemment confirms its commitment to the reform process. It is resolved to redouble the
    efforts put forth and to consolidate achievements by deepening the reforms and extending the
    measures to other relevant areas. The Government therefore requests additional support from
    IDA in order to further implement the PRSP strategy in such areas as good govemance, the
    management o f public finances, combating corruption, and capacity building.




                                                - 74 -

Good governance and combating corruption

4.   The Government considers the establishment o f good governance in all areas (political,
     administrative, and economic) o f the management o f public affairs to be the main thrust o f the
     implementation o f its development and poverty-reduction strategy. Indeed, various problems in
     those areas hinder any systematic effort to achieve sustainable development and reduce poverty.
     In public administration, the physical working environment is neglected, the human, material,
     organizational and financial resources are inadequate, the civil servants lack motivation, the
     management o f public finances i s insufficiently monitored, and many units are plagued by
     corruption.    The government machinery is no longer credible, and decentralization is behind
     schedule. The Government intends to tackle inpriority these governance issues, whose solution
     i s indispensable to the success o f any development strategy, before undertaking any further
     action aimed at quick and sustainable development and at poverty reduction.

5.   To ensure that an efficient program o f good governance is developed, implemented, and followed
     up, the Government will set up a coordinating committee to spearhead and supervise all actions
     and reforms aimed at establishing good governance in the management o f public affairs. The
     main institutions, ministries and civil society organizations having a stake inthe improvement o f
     the business environment and o f the services provided by the public sector in Madagascar will
     participate in the work o f the committee. Its presiding officers will be designated by the Office
     o f the President o f the Republic, and the newly appointed President o f the anti-corruption task
     force (Conseil sup6rieur de lutte contre la corruption or CSLCC) will be one o f its members.

6.   The Government firmly reiterates its determination to combat corruption and considers
     transparency and good governance to be pillars o f public management. In September 2002 it
     adopted two decrees, one instituting the CSLCC and the other establishing an obligation o f
     personal assets disclosure by top government officials and law officers. It will continue in the
     same direction, first by actually putting in place the CSLCC in 2003 and later by setting up an
     anti-corruption agency after conducting a study on the organization o f such a body. The mission
     o f the CSLCC, acting directly under the authority o f the President o f the Republic, is to develop
     a national strategy for combating corruption and to steer the reforms necessary in this area. The
     anti-corruption agency will be responsible for implementing the strategy. Some o f the measures
     o f that strategy are formulated in the PRSP:
     (a)     strengthening procedures to combat corruption and meting out punishment inproven cases
             o f bribery;
     (b)     setting up, in all public agencies, one-stop offices and complaints bureaus where users o f
             public services may register their grievances;
     (c)     reducing corruption and favoritism incivil service;
     (d)     disseminating texts on standards o f behavior, professional ethics, andpropriety; and
     (e)     stepping up information, education and communication (IEC) activities, and in particular
             reintroducing civics inthe school curricula.

Reform and modernization o f public finances

7.   The scope o f the reform o f public finances, which is crucial to the establishment o f good
     governance, is so extensive that the implementation o f the measures intended to ensure a new,
     transparent, and efficient system are expected to take three to four years.         Consequently, if
     tangible results are to be achieved early on in the process, activities in this area must be rated in
     order o f priority. The reform aims at reestablishing budgetary procedures as a whole, restoring


                                                - 75 -

    universally accepted practices in the administration o f public accounts, and streamlining and
    strengthening the State budget monitoring system.

8.  A review o f fundamental provisions goveming public finances is the main prerequisite of reform
    in this area. As regards the relevant constitutional provisions, a draft organic law on public
    finances will be ready for consideration by the Parliament in 2004.         The bill, currently in
    preparation, introduces (inkeeping with the PRSP) the concept o f "program budget", stresses the
    liability o f expenditure authorizing officers, and strengthens parliamentary control.        The
    preparation o f the finance law will start early in the year. In fact, the process will commence
    with the validation o f general macroeconomic guidelines just before the middle o f the previous
    year, with a view to formulating the general budget framework and launching budget meetings
    for the various ministries early in the second half o f the year. The draft finance law for year n
    will be ready around the end o f September o f year n-1 and submitted to the Parliament in
    October.

9.  In the mediumterm, modemizing the system of public finances will enhance coordination with
    the financial partners whose new approach is to give preference to budgetary support over
    project financing. As regards future assistance, it i s probable that the funds necessary for the
    activities financed will be gradually transferred to IDA'Sfuture "Poverty Reduction Adjustment
    Credit" (CARP), to which Madagascar will start having access in 2005, and that technical
    assistance fundingwill be reduced accordingly.

10. The process o f drawing up the budget was streamlined in October 2002 when the Public
    Investment Directorate was integrated into the General Directorate o f Public Expenditure
    (DGDP). Unification will be further pursued through the establishment o f a consolidated budget
    encompassing operational outlays other than wages, the wage bill, and investments, including
    public debt (as from 2004), with a concomitant strengthening o f the DGDP and o f the sectoral
    ministry directorates responsible for public finances and the budget. Throughout the budget
    chain, these units will be entrusted to professional staff experienced in public finances. The
    entire procedure o f budget execution, from planning to monitoring, will be computerized and
    streamlined to eliminate administrative bottlenecks.

11. The Government will pursue its efforts for greater efficiency inbudget execution by:
    ---- shortening and accelerating expenditure procedures;
         enhancing the accountability and the capacities o f the staff;
         streamlining the process and introducing procedural manuals;
         ensuring procedural and accounting transparency;
    - introducing half-yearly audits o f special funds managed by agency directors (a practice to

    --- which the Government committed in September 2002);
         establishing an internal audit system,
         conducting audits and inspections on a systematic basis; and
        promoting greater equity in budget allocations by supporting priority sectors through
        increased social expenditure and by providing adequate funding for priority activities o f
        grassroots organizations.

12. To ensure that reliable and up-to-date information on the situation o f public finances is available
    to decision makers, the Government i s designing a management chart incorporating feedback
    from all levels o f the budget execution chain. Eventually, once all budget execution centers are
    integrated into a single electronic network, the chart will be updated automatically when data is


                                               -76 -

    entered by the base units. This integrated system for the management o f public finances
    (SIGFP) is currently being implemented as a pilot application in the Furitany [province] o f
    Toamasina and inthe central units in order to assess the advisability o f extending it to the whole
    o f Madagascar in the medium term or opting for alternative software, taking into consideration
    the respective technological parameters, cost o f maintenance, and sustainability o f the process.
    The Government considers the SIGFP to be a key factor in the reform o f the management o f
    public finances, because the system i s expected to ensure consistency among the various
    activities, transparency o f budget execution, improved internal account keeping by means o f
    linkingtransactions, and availability of up-to-date information for budget-execution monitoring
    and decision-making. An assessment o f the capacity-building requirements o f computerization
    points to a need for considerable investment in hardware, networking, and, especially, human
    resources.    However, given the absorption capacity o f the units concerned and the gradual
    extension o f the system in the future, complete coverage by SIGFP will be possible only in the
    long term. Consequently, priorities will be established in order to implement as soon as possible
    the reforms and investments most urgently needed.

13. As regards accounting management, the separation o f the functions o f authorizing officers and
    public accountants i s a universally accepted principle and should be reinstated. A regulation
    establishing standardized nomenclature to be used in documents supporting authorizations will
    take effect inthe first quarter o f 2004.

14. As regards expenditure control, the Government has set up a committee to examine and reform
    oversight units (Comiti de riflexion et de riforme des orgunes de contrble or CRROC), whose
    task is to redefine the mission and function o f bodies responsible for monitoring State
    expenditure, namely the Expenditure Commitments Oversight Office (CDE), the General
    Inspectorate o f State (IGE), the Audit Office, and the Public Procurement Committee. The
    CRROC has reviewed these four bodies in detail and has rated in order o f priority the
    capacity-building measures that they require.       On the basis mainly o f recommendations
    formulated in studies carried out during 2002-2003 as part o f the "Country Financial
    Accountability Assessment" (CFAA) and the "Country Procurement Assessment Report"
    (CPAR), these measures were validated at a workshop organized for that purpose in June 2003.
    The implementation o f the reform program has been launched and i s expected to last several
    years.   The legal and regulatory texts governing the monitoring bodies will be reviewed to
    ascertain their conformity with international auditing and monitoring standards, and to ensure the
    effectiveness and efficiency o f follow-up.        In the interest of efficiency, effectiveness,
    transparency and accountability in the management o f public finances, strengthening the rule o f
    law, and combating corruption, the Prime Minister, as head o f the Government, may delegate the
    relevant supervisory powers to the Minister o f the Economy, Finances and the Budget who will
    thereby be empowered to ask directly the State inspectors o f the IGE or the CDE (to be renamed
    "Financial Audit Office" or CF) to monitor and audit operations in the Minister's own
    department. The implementation o f this program will be supported with adequate training and
    capacity building,basic equipment, and expert technical assistance.

15. Part o f the reform o f public finances will consist o f reestablishing financial discipline.
    Accordingly, the Government will provide the Financial and Budgetary Disciplinary Council
    (CODIF) with the staff, training and capacity building required for it to be operational. No
    decision has yet been made as to the definitive place o f the CODIF in the administration: its
     subordination to the Audit Office has more disadvantages (limited, lengthy, and tortuous referral
    procedures culminating in insignificant punishments) than advantages (compliance with the


                                              - 77 -

      principle o f separation o f the authorizing and accounting functions).

16.   As part o f the reform o fpublic finances, the Government has launched a detailed examination of
      the system o f awarding public procurement contracts. Some institutional changes have started
      as a result o f the CRROC review.           Until a regulatory authority is set up, a Directorate
      responsible for regulating contract awards has been established in the Ministry o f the Economy,
      Finance and the Budget. Furthermore, terms o f reference have been drawn up for a study on
      reforming the system.

17.   Compared with other countries o f Sub-Saharan Africa, the tax rate in Madagascar, in terms o f
      government revenue, is one o f the lowest in the region (not more than 12 percent o f GDP,
      compared with ratios above 15 percent elsewhere).         Increasing tax and customs revenue i s
      therefore a priority for the Government, which plans to reform the system by a general
      reorganization o f the services and by building their capacities, through training and
      computerization, for example. As regards customs, a new method o f inspecting merchandise
      before it is loaded was adopted in 2002 in partnership with an internationally known company;
      and the implementation o f an efficient information processing software system, SYDONIA++, is
      expected to begin in 2003. As regards tax collection, reorganization continues on the basis o f
      the tax enhancement exercise conducted in pilot tax centers, and this operation will be gradually
      extended to the rest o f the country. Given the scope o f the reform o f the units responsible for
      collecting government revenue, many donors, such as the African Development Bank and
      France, support the Government's efforts. The contribution o f the World Bank i s specifically
      used for the implementation o f SYDONIA++.

The justice system

18. To ensure the rule o f law in Madagascar, the Government has started to modernize and strengthen
the legal andjudicial sector, seeking to raise the standing and dignity o f the law officers so that they
may fulfill their mission: establishing a system o f impartial and equitable legal process respectful o f
human rights and reassuring to investors. In particular, the status and working conditions o f judges
have improved; the sector's capacities are being built through the newly founded National School for
Magistrates and Court Registrars (ENMG), a professional school for law officers; laws are compiled
and published; the distance between the judicial system and the persons subject to trial i s bridged; and
the recovery o f the sector is under way.        The Government will continue to put forth efforts to
consolidate the independence, transparency, accessibility, and credibility o f the system o f justice, and
has accordingly set five objectives:

      (a)    Rehabilitating the judicial and prison systems and infrastructures on a national scale, by
             continuing to provide furniture, office and computer equipment, legal documentation, and
             means o f quick communication between central units in the Ministry o f Justice and the
             courts o f law.
      (b)    Strengthening procedures for combating corruption in the judicial sector, by means of
             prevention and repression measures, and through activities for educating the population;
             increasing the number o f sanctions as a deterrent against various forms o f bribery; and
             building the capacities o f inspectors in the area o f professional ethics through specialized
             training.
        (c)  Speeding up trials through legal reforms aimed at shorter deadlines and procedures,
             reducing the duration o f remand in custody, and administering punishments alternative to
             imprisonment.


                                                  - 78 -

     (d)    Improving the legal framework for business through the intensive training o f judges
            hearing commercial disputes, by revising and speeding up commercial court procedures
            and by further reforming business law.
     (e)    Humanizing incarceration, in particular by improving the living conditions o f prison
            inmates.
            The above measures, which specifically aim at the Government's stated objectives, will be
            carried out after a methodical examination o f the courts o f law currently under way and
            after the formulation o f a strategy through a nationwide exchange o f views on the justice
            system.
     (f)    Providing a reasonedjustification for all court decisions.
     (g)    Carrying out inspections on a systematic basis.

Monitoring and evaluation o f PRSP imulementation. Integrated information system

19.  The Government is extremely interested in monitoring PRSP implementation to ensure an inflow
     o f information on the activities o f the sectoral ministries and analyze the impact o f sectoral
     policies on the development o f the country in general and, in particular, on the population
     sections that they directly concemed.          The PRSP provides for the implementation o f an
     integrated system aimed at the following objectives:
     ---- supplyingthe Government with real-time information on the state and evolution o fpoverty;
          assessing the impact o f the poverty reduction strategy;
          evaluating the effectiveness o f the policies and proposing appropriate readjustments; and
          providing all development actors with pertinent information necessary to the decision-making,
          monitoring and evolution processes.

     The measures required in order to achieve these objectives will be taken through the following
     structures:

     (i)     a steering committee, which will be the contracting authority and decision-making agency
             authorized to check and validate work carried out at the national level;
     (ii)    an expert committee, which will have supervisory and executive authority over the
             operation and will be responsible for harmonizing studies carried out on specific subjects
             at the national level and establishing a system to provide information and assistance
             necessary for decision making; and
     (iii)   a user group or an interministerial or interregional committee with monitoring authority:
             an advisory body through which all stakeholders may exchange information and
             participate in the evaluation o f the activities carried out by the various departments and
             decentralized implementing units.

     The information obtained through this mechanism will allow reporting to the President o f the
     Republic inreal time on the state o f poverty and the progress o f the various reforms.

Improvement o f the services provided bv the public sector in some key areas

20.  Inaddition to basic reforms inthe areas of public finances andjustice, good governance will also
     be applied to the operations o f some public services with which the people have daily contact.
     These enhancements consist o f streamlining, simplifying, clarifying, and improving the function
     o f these services in order to provide better services to the users.       The entities identified as
     requiring such improvements are:          the customs service, primary education, the commercial


                                                 - 79 -

      courts, the land titling service, the traffic police, and the local communities. As a rule, these
      entities are not subject to any performance standards, and the procedures for access to the
      services that they provide are not always known to the population. The Government will take
      measures to bring about, in the short term, a visible improvement o f the services rendered to the
      public by these entities, thereby enhancing the credibility o f all reforms undertaken.      Simple
      measures will be taken at once. At the same time, a more extensive but fast-paced review o f
      problems encountered by the public will be conducted in order to determine what other measures
      may be taken immediately.

Training

21.   Training key staff in all areas is crucial to the implementation o f the reforms that have been
      planned.    This training should consist o f providing technological knowledge and technical
      know-how and in developing the ability o f professional staff to cope with various situations in
      life, placing emphasis on behavior and professional ethics. To enable as many key agents as
      possible to receive adequate training, the Government has adopted a strategy of redefiningthe
      missions and roles of Madagascar's training institutions, streamlining the function o f those
      institutes to maximize their quality/cost ratio, reviewing cumcula to ensure that they meet the
      requirements o f the reforms necessary for good governance, and providing the institutions with
      the resources necessary for normal and sustainable operation. Two studies have been carried
      out:    an assessment o f training requirements in the government departments and public
      organizations, and an evaluation o f the training institutions' capacity and need for reinforcement.
      On the basis o f these studies, the Government plans to build M e r the capacities o f three
      training centers  - the National Civil Service Training School (ENAM), the National School for
      Magistrates and Court Registrars (ENMG), and the National Administration Training Center
      (CNFA)     -and to set up a new Distance Training Center (CFD) with advanced-technology
      equipment enabling the trainees to attend courses taught by some o f the worlds outstanding
      experts.

22.   ENAM's mission is to provide initial training and continuing education to such senior civil
      servants as administrators, tax inspectors, prison administration inspectors, etc. The institution
      i s therefore key to the reform o f public finances and judicial administration.       However, its
      insufficient teaching staff, inadequate equipment, and limited student capacity allow it to only
      offer essentially theoretical courses and scanty practical training or professional exchanges.
      There are plans to broaden the training that it provides in high-demand areas, particularly in the
      management o f public finances; review its structure and function; build its capacities further;
      change its physical layout; and outfit it with appropriate equipment, in order to enable it to attain
      its objectives in view o f the extensive reforms undertaken on a national scale.

23.   CNFA's mission is to train middle management staff for government agencies. As far as public
      finances are concerned, it trains tax collectors, tax and customs inspectors, and deputy-heads o f
      financial units - officials who, although indispensable to ministry services, are in relative short
      supply compared to needs. The CNFA must be strengthened by increasing its student capacity,
      modernizing its training equipment and installations, and raising the efficiency o f its
      administrative and teaching staff. CNFA's structure and training program will be reviewed in
      2004.

24.   The ENMG was founded in 1997 to reduce the lack o f domestic training for judges and court
      registrars. Until then, judges were recruited among the graduates o f the Institute o f Legal


                                                  -80 -

     Studies (IEJ) at the Antananarivo Law School, andtheir training was inadequate by international
     standards. Henceforth, all judges who are appointed must be ENMG graduates. The ENMG
     was set up with IDA support under PAIGEP 1. To continue operating, it relies on support from
     the Government and from external, technical and financial, partners, in particular for operating
     expenses, the provision o f proper facilities, and the strengthening o f technical, material, and
     human resources.       More specifically, insofar as the continued operation o f the School i s
     concerned, the Government plans to hire a consultant to conduct a feasibility study aimed at
     evaluating the long-term needs o f the School and the assistance that will have to be provided by
     the State and the beneficiaries when financial assistance from external partners is no longer
     available.

25.  Advanced technologies developed in recent years make it possible for a course to be offered
     simultaneously at many centers throughout the world. Accordingly, the Government set up the
     CFD to enable as many local civil servants as possible to derive benefit from the best training
     provided in other countries.      A feasibility study, carried out in partnership with the "Global
     Development Leaming Network" (GDLN), which i s affiliated with the World Bank, concluded
     that Madagascar had every reason to set up CFD, since such a center would allow public and
     private sector staff to participate in tele-seminars provided by top specialists and high-level
     institutions, and in exchanges o f experience among experts and economic policy makers in
     different countries, at a reduced cost.

Conclusion

26.  The Government plans to carry out the measures necessary for implementing policies o f good
     governance, combating corruption, capacity building, and poverty reduction under a program o f
     action for which it requests the support o f the international community, and in particular IDA.
     Specifically, the contribution o f IDA will be used for:

     -   supporting the establishment o f good governance in the management o f public affairs,
         particularly as regards the management o f public finances and combating corruption;
     - helpingthe Govemment to monitor the implementation o fthe PRSP;
     -   consolidating PAIGEP 1 achievements in the units o f the Ministry o f the Economy, Finances
         and the Budget, particularly in the General Directorates o f the Treasury and o f Public

     -   Expenditure, with a view to installing an integrated system o f public finances;
         financing the installation o f the SYDONIA++ software in the General Directorate o f Customs

     -   to ensure quick compilation of reliable data on foreign trade;
         pursuing the reinforcement o f the legal and judicial system already begun under PAIGEP 1;

     -   and
         promoting capacity building on a national scale through a broad training program designed
         for staff entrusted with ensuring good governance. This measure will include building the
         capacities o f training institutions.

27.  Through the policy described, the Government aims at improving and strengthening the
     socio-economic environment in order to foster the development o f the country and restore
     Madagascar's credibility, first among its own population and, at the same time, among its
     technical and financial partners and the private investors, to ensure that they all, through their
     support and their contributions, help expedite development and make it sustainable.           This
     restored credibility presupposes rigorous management o f public finances, the elimination o f
     corruption, transparent business law, economic stability, and the availability o f reliable and


                                                -81  -

up-to-date economic information. The Government is confident that the population will take
ownership of this policy and that the international community will back the implementation o f
the proposedmeasures.




                                        - 82 -

MAP SECTION


