Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3829-1-MAG 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Governance and Institutional Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 5, 2007
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3829-1-MAG 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated June 5, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
MADAGASCAR (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to 
this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to three 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,400,000) (variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 
to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall 
be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this end, 
the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article 
IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Recipient has employed the independent auditors referred to in Section 
4.09 (b) of the General Conditions, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
The Recipient has updated the PIP, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister at the time responsible for finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Budget 
 B.P. 
61 
 Antananarivo 
101 
 Madagascar 
 
Cable address:   
Facsimile: 
 
MFB 
 
 
(261) 20 22 34530 
Antananarivo 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Antananarivo, Republic of Madagascar, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
 
By: 
 
            /s/ Benjamin Andriamparany Radavidson 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
     /s/ Robert R. Blake 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the efficiency and transparency of 
government and public services in Madagascar in line with the MAP. 
The Project consists of the following part: 
Part A
:
Monitoring and Evaluation of the MAP and Key Statistical Surveys
1. 
Developing and implementing a monitoring and evaluation strategy for the whole of 
Government, including support to statistical development through development of a revised 
regulatory and procedural framework for government statistics; technical assistance, training 
and capacity building to modernize key institutions and improve their operational efficiency 
in the area of monitoring and evaluation; and support to local training institutions. 
2. 
Supporting MAP implementation through key statistical surveys to evaluate the 
progress of MAP implementation, including: (a) a complete cartographic survey of 
Madagascar to prepare a population census with consulting services and equipment; 
(b) strengthening the capacity in the INSTAT to develop and implement additional statistical 
surveys; and (c) 
financing of a limited number of government staff’s salaries, namely 
numerators and statisticians.
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Recipient shall: 
(a) 
appoint a CG, who shall report to the Secretary of Planning of the 
Recipient’s Office of the President, to be responsible for the overall 
management of the Project; 
(b) maintain: 
(i) 
the COS and CR, whose mandate, terms of reference and 
composition shall be acceptable to the Association, to provide 
guidance and exercise general oversight functions in the course of 
implementation of the Project, assist in the decision-making 
process, and facilitate timely implementation of the Project; and 
(ii) 
the BdG, whose mandate, terms of reference and composition shall 
be acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for day-to-day 
execution of the Project, including management of procurement 
and disbursement activities, consolidation of annual work programs 
and budgets, preparation and production of annual progress reports 
and financial statements, and monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project; and 
(c) ensure 
that: 
(i) 
BdG shall employ a chief accountant, a procurement specialist, and 
other suitably qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers; 
and 
(ii) 
the positions of CG, chief accountant and procurement specialist 
referred to in this paragraph shall be kept filled at all times by 
persons having qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Association. 
Page  8
-
7
-
B. Implementation 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Recipient shall implement the Project in accordance with the PIP, and except as 
the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
amend or waive any provision thereof. 
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section II, Schedule 2 of this Agreement, 
the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
not later than November 30 of each year submit to the Association for 
review and comments a proposed annual work program and budget, giving 
details of its proposed work program activities and budget estimates, for the 
forthcoming Fiscal Year; and 
(b) 
proceed thereafter to implement the annual work program and budget, 
taking into account any comments thereon as the Association may have 
made. 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in 
sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph. Each Project Report shall cover the 
period of one calendar year, and shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) consist of 
the following:  
 
(i) 
by December 31, 2008, at least five sector ministries have 
developed an annual implementation plan with full costing 
projections;  
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) 
by June 30, 2009, at least 10 sector ministries have developed an 
annual implementation plan with full costing projections; and 
 
(iii) 
by June 30, 2009, at least 1,300 cartographic surveys of Communes 
have been completed. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one Fiscal Year. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 Goods 
and 
Works.
 All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and 
with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular 
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Page  10
-
9
-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1.
 International 
Competitive 
Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Procurement from Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which 
may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications (CQS) 
(b) Single-source Selection 
(c) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each 
contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; (b) each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more; (c) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more; (d) each contract for individual consultants’ estimated to cost 
Page  11
-
10 -
 
the equivalent of $50,000 or more and (e) each contract procured on a sole source 
basis. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised 
from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to this Agreement 
pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the 
table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to 
be Financed 
(inclusive of 
Taxes) 
(1) Works 
 
70,000 
100 
(2) Goods 
 
330,000 
100 
(3) Consultants’ 
services and audits 
1,650,000 100 
(4) Training 
 
1,150,000 
100 
(5) Operating 
Costs, including 
Performance 
Bonuses 
 200,000 
85
 
TOTAL 
AMOUNT 
 3,400,000 
 
Page  12
-
11 -
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2009. 
Page  13
-
12 -
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each May 1 and November 1: 
 
commencing November 1, 2017, to and including 
May 1, 2027 
1% 
commencing November 1, 2027, to and including 
May 1, 2047 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the 
General Conditions. 
Page  14
-
13 -
 
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and 
Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. “BdG” 
means 
Bureau de Gestion
,
the national project bureau operating under the 
supervision of PREA and responsible for management and supervision of the 
Project. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. “CG” 
means 
Coordonnateur Général, 
the National Coordinator of PREA, as 
established pursuant to article 6 of the decree no. 2005-803, of November 23, 2005. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006, as the same may be amended by the Association.  
6. “COS” 
means 
Conseil d’Orientation et de Suivi
,
the Oversight Committee of PREA, 
established pursuant to article 4 of the decree no. 2005-803, of November 23, 2005. 
7. 
“CR” means 
Comité Restreint
,
the Standing Committee of PREA, established 
pursuant to article 5 of the decree no. 2005-803, of November 23, 2005.  
8. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year beginning on January 1 in any one 
calendar year and ending on December 31 in the same calendar year.  
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 
15, 2006). 
10. “INSTAT” 
means 
Institut National de la Statistique
,
the Recipient’s National 
Statistics Office attached to the Ministry of Economy, Planning, Private Sector and 
Trade. 
11. 
“MAP” means Madagascar Action Plan, the Recipient’s development strategy for 
the years 2007 – 2012. 
Page  15
-
14 -
 
12. 
“MFB” means 
Ministère des Finances et du Budget
,
the Recipient
’s Ministry of 
Finance and Budget. 
13. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental operating costs arising under the Project 
on account of local contractual support staff salaries, social benefits, travel 
expenditures and other travel-related allowances; equipment rental and maintenance; 
vehicle operation, maintenance and repair; office rental and maintenance, materials 
and supplies; utilities and communications' expenses; bank charges; Performance 
Bonuses; and, up to December 31, 2007, salaries of officials of the Recipient under 
Part A of the Project. 
14. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a 
Governance and Institutional Development Project between the Recipient and the 
Association, dated December 1, 2003, as amended to the date of this Agreement 
(Credit No 3829-MAG). 
15. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing Agreement. 
16. 
“Performance Bonus” means a bonus based on performance paid for each year by 
the Recipient to civil servants selected according to a methodology agreed upon with 
the Association. 
17. 
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan, dated August 29, 2003, giving details 
of guidelines and procedures agreed with the Association for the implementation, 
supervision, and monitoring and evaluation, of the Project, as same may be amended 
from time to time in agreement with the Association, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Project Implementation Plan.  
18. “PREA” 
means 
Programme de Réformes pour l’Efficacité de l’Administration
,
the 
public sector reform and governance program, adopted by the Recipient on 
November 23, 2005 by decree no. 2005-803, of November 23, 2005.  
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October, 2006, 
as the same may be amended by the Association. 
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
March 8, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time 
to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
Page  16
-
15 -
 
21. 
“Secretary of Planning” means the Permanent Secretary for Development Planning 
of the Borrower’s Office of the President.
 
22. 
“Training” means the expenses incurred on per diem, travel, purchase of training 
materials and rental of facilities, and includes workshops and seminars.
 
