Iiitegrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Report No: AC129
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 06/19/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: MADAGASCAR                              Project ID: P074448
Project: Governance & Institutional Development Project Task Team Leader: Guenter Heidenhof
Authorized to Appraise Date: July 10, 2003      IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: December 20, 2003                IDA Amount ($m): 30.00
Managing Unit: AFTPR                            Sector: General public administration sector (100%)
Lending Instniment: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management
Status: Lending                                 and procurement (P); Other public sector
governance (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The main objectives of the project are to assist the Government of Madagascar (GoM) in implementing
the poverty reduction strategy which is based on the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) by
*   Rationalizing and modernizing budget and public expenditure management,
*   Improving accountability and transparency of Government operations,
*   Defining Government strategy in the area of decentralization and judicial reform, and by
* Strengthening the capacity of public institutions to deal with complex change processes.
The project, which will be implemented over a period of five years, intends to pave the way for
subsequent budget support under a PRSC presently scheduled for FY05. It has been designed as a
technical assistance operation which includes IT-system design and implementation, institutional
development, capacity building, organizational and regulatory changes.
I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
The project will enhance and further deepen previous reforms initiated under the Public Management
Capacity Building Project (PAIGEP I) which closed in December 2002. It can build on significant
analytical work, in particular the recently completed Country Financial Accountability Assessment
(CFAA) and the Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR). The project which would be
implemented over a period of five years consists of two components:
Component 1 - Improvement of transparency and economic governance
This component would support a comprehensive refonn of the public finance system in Madagascar,
mainly at the central government level. The component would include four sub-components: (i)
Integrated public financial management systenm. The budget of the central government would be prepared
and managed on the basis of a comprehensive computerized system to which all agencies involved in
budget and expenditure management (Finance and Budget, line ministries, central and de-concentrated
offices of central government) would be connected. The system would encompass the whole national
budget: wages, non-salary operating costs, investment, debt service, income mobilization (customs,
taxes). This would include the roll-out of the integrated system developed and tested in the province of
Toamasina under PAIGEP I to the other five provinces. (ii) Internal and external audit and control
functions. The GoM has prepared a proposal to comprehensively reform the internal and external audit
functions in view of strengthening capacity and putting in place an adequate framework. This work has
been complemented and further refined by the CFAA. The project will assist the GoM in implementing



2
ISDS
the recommendations to strengthen internal and external controls. It will particularly focus on adjusting
the existing institutional and procedural framework to international standards. In this context, the project
will support the establishment of an independent internal audit function in the Ministry of Finance and
Budget ('Inspection Generale des Finances'), the strengthening of other control functions ('Brigade du
Tresor', 'Inspection Generale de l'Etat', 'Controle des Depenses Engages', Conseil de Discipline
Financiere et Budgetaire') and the transformation of the 'Chambre des Comptes' into a 'Cour des
Comptes' (Auditor General). (iii) Procurement reform. Based on the findings of the CPAR, the project
will assist the GoM in adjusting the public procurement system to international standards. This will
include a comprehensive reform of the existing regulatory and institutional framework as well as
significant capacity building activities to ensure compliance with the new rules and regulations. (iv)
Coordination, monitoring & evaluation. This sub-component will assist the GoM in strengthening
monitoring and evaluation, in particular in view of the implementation of the PRSP. It will support the
development of adequate mechanisms to coordinate and track the implementation of government
policies, in particular at the level of the Presidency. This will include capacity building activities for
Govermnent in the use of infonnation for decision making, management, public investment oversight,
policy analysis, evaluation and reorientation of policies and programs within the context of the PRSP.
Component 2 - Capacity building and strengthening of local training institutions
This component would focus on institutional development and capacity building activities in selected
government institutions. Capacity building in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Finance and Budget aims
at complementing the significant changes triggered by the refonns under component 1. Project support
will also focus on the newly created Ministry of Decentralization, which will play a key role in
operationalizing the decentralization agenda in Madagascar, with the goal to enable the ministry to
further refine the regulatory, fiduciary, administrative and judicial framework for decentralization. To
continue the reforms initiated under PAIGEP I the Ministry of Justice will receive some support to
improve its operational efficiency to implement key reforms identified by the government (expedition of
civil and commercial proceedings, strengthening of internal control to combat corruption). To ensure that
capacity building activities can be adequately implemented the project also aims at strengthening
selected local institutions that would deliver profevssional training and capacity building in particular in
administrative and financial management as well as procurement. Project support will focus on the Ecole
Nationale de l'Administration de Madagascar (ENAM) and the National Center for Administrative
Training (Centre National de Formation Administrative, CNVFA). In addition, the project will continue to
provide assistance to the institution that is responsible for the training of justices and court personnel ('
Ecole Nationale de la Magistrature et des Greffes' - ENMG). The ENMG received support under
PAIGEP I. The project would further strengthen the institutional capacity of ENMG, and provide it with
the resources that it requires to improve its training facilities, enhance its training curriculum and deliver
high quality training. In line with the government's strategy to strengthen the capacity for the provision of
in-country training support the project will include the establishment of a Distance Learning Center in
Madagascar as part of the Global Development Learning Network.
In addition, the project will support the establishment of a project management system for the change
process to ensure effective implementation of the reforms.
Only a part of the total financing requirements will be taken care of under the proposed investment
project. It is envisaged that the project will cover the funding needs during the lirst two years of
implementation; with the beginning of the third year the Government will progressively take over
funding of the project implementation through its annual budget. Investment lending would then mainly
focus on training, capacity building and specialized technical advise, while modernization and recurrent
costs will be gradually integrated into the Govermnent's budget. With total projected costs of US$58.Om



3
ISDS
investment lending will cover US$30.0m. Future adjustment assistance is expected to complement the
investment project and will ensure that the reforms continue to be implemented as planned.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, infonnation about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project would implement an integrated financial management system in all six provinces in Madagascar.
As part of the reform, some minor rehabilitation of existing buildings will take place in the six provincial
capitals to ensure that the IT equipment is adequately installed and maintained. In addition the project will
provide funding for the modernization of local training institutions that are located in the capital
Antananarivo. The modernization will include refurbishment and rehabilitation of existing training
facilities.The project will also finance the establishment of a Development Learning Center (DLC) in
Antananarivo.
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: The project entails the rehabilitation of buildings of training institutions in Madagascar to
improve their service delivery capacity.
It is also envisaged to establish a Distance Learning Center in the capital. The DLC is likely to be located
on the grounds of one of the existing training institutions in the capital Antananarivo (i.e. Ecole Nationale
de l'Adninistration de Madagascar, ENAM, and Ecole Nationale de la Magistrature et des Greffes, ENMG).
These training facilities are public institutions, their assets (including the land) is owned by the government.
It is presently unclear if the DLC can use an existing building or if a new building has to be set-up. In case
an existing building can be used, the project will finance the rehabilitation of the building in line with the
requirements of the Global Distance Leaming Network. This will include the refurbishment and equipment
of training rooms and the installation of a satellite dish. In case a new building is required the project will
finance the relevant civil works (estimated 0.5m) for center (2 training rooms, 1 server room, offices), which
will have less than 5,000 square feet. As the building would use existing infrastructure in the capital no
major infrastructure changes or implications (access roads, electricity, water, sewerage) are expected to
support the new building. The construction contracts would require to establish the building in line with
intemationally accepted building norms which would include that no hazardous materials be used.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on E for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
Policy                                 Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)      (_ Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)              (9 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                               (9 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                 () Yes   No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                             () Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                              ( ) Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                     ( ) Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                         (_) Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  (9 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*   (9 Yes 0 No



4
ISDS
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Sumnmllary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If inforniation is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessaty data.
11 D. Ia. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or ilTeversible impacts.
The project entails complex institutional reforms to improve the public financial management system in
Madagascar. No specific safeguard issues are triggered. The project will finance rninor rehabilitation of
existing buildings without any major impact on infrastructure (roads, electricity, water, sewerage). The
project may include the construction of a Distance Learning Center. As outlined above, the construction
activity would be marginal and is not likely to interfere with safeguards.
IL.D.1b Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
n/a
1I.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
n/a
H.D.2. In light of I, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
n/a
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Rehabilitation and construction would follow internationally accepted norms and standards. It would be
ensured that no hazardous materials be used.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Development and implementation is/will be based on broad consultation process (mainly workshops and
focus group discussions) with key stakeholders (central government, provincial govermments, targeted
local communities).
E. Safeguards Classificatiolt (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy.
Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.
SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. - No safeguard issues
SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assess*ment/Ai alvsis/Mdanagentent Plan:      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable



5
ISDS
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive  Not Applicable Not Applicable
Directors (For category A projects)
Resettlement Actionl Plan/Framework:                       Expected       Actuial
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam SafJty Management Plan:                                Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why. n/a
Sil!ned and submitted by      Name                                       Date
Task Team Leader:             Guenter Heidenhof                          06/17/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Amadou Konare/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Kristine Schwebach/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:  Serigne Oinar Fye/Person/World Bank
Approved by:                  Name                                       D)ate
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Charlotte S. Bingham                    June 19, 2003
Sector Manager                Brian David Levy                           June 19, 2003



