Report No. PID11515
Project Name             MADAGASCAR-Poverty Reduction &
Institutional Devopment Technical
Assistance Project
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   General public administration
sector (1009)
Project ID               P074448
Borrower(s)              REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
Implementing Agency
PRIME MINISTER'S OFFICE
Secretariat Technique de l'Ajustement
(STA)
Address: Antananarivo/Madagascar
Contact Person: Daniel Ramarokoto,
Secretaire General
Direction Generale du Developpement
des Provinces Autonomes, Ministeres du
Budget, des Finances et de la Justice
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        November 25, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      June 15, 2003
Bank Approval Date       November 15, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Madagascar is one of the poorest countries in the world with per capita
income of US$260 (in 2000), 70 percent of the population in poverty and
half of the children malnourished. After decades of economic stagnation
and downturn the country has sustained four years of positive real growth
and low inflation; the public deficit is under control. In December 2000,
Madagascar presented an interim PRSP to the Bretton Woods Institutions
and, as a result, received US$60m of debt relief per year under the
HIPC-Intitiative. Preparations for the full PRSP are under way and
expected to be finalized by the end of 2001. Main beneficiaries of the
additional resources are the social sectors, particularly primary
education and health. The PRSP identifies a number of priority reform area
which include service delivery improvements through institutional reform
and decentralization and more efficient revenue and expenditure
management, in particular in key sectors vital for poverty reduction
(social sectors, agriculture, mining). Complementary reform areas include
the need for greater transparency of public sector operations and for
deepening the legal reforms initiated under the ongoing institutional
development project (PAIGEP I).
In line with these reform priorities the Government of Madagascar (GoM) is
seeking support from development partners to (i) implement and monitor the
PRSP, (ii) improve pro-poor service delivery through decentralization and
institutional reform, (iii) strengthen budget and expenditure management



to ensure that public resources are efficiently allocated and spent, and
(iv) broaden access to justice, especially for the poor.
2. Objectives
The main objectives of the project are to assist the GoM in
implementing the poverty reduction strategy which is based on the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP),
key institutional reforms to improve pro-poor service delivery, broaden
access to justice, especially for the poor, and manage more efficiently
revenues and public expenditures in sectors vital for poverty alleviation.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Bank experience with the areas targeted by the project will add
substantial value to the reform process.
4. Description
The project which would be implemented over a period of five years
consists of four components:
Component 1 - Strengthening of monitoring & evaluation
This component will assist the GoM in strengthening the institutional
framework for PRSP implementation, specifically with regard to an
integrated monitoring and evaluation system. The project would test
approaches to building incentives for Government to use information,
through targeted resources for policy analysis and a more active voice of
civil society in policy monitoring. Project support would focus on the
following fundamental areas: (i) supporting capacity building for
Government in the use of information for decision making, management,
public investment oversight, policy analysis, evaluation and reorientation
of policies and programs within the context of the PRSP,     (ii)
strengthening production of periodic data in selected sectors, improving
the quality of data, bringing greater coherence to the links between the
production and use of data, and harmonizing and strengthening existent
data sources across various line ministries and INSTAT, (iii) improving
access to information by civil society, and (iv) assessing and
strengtheing the structure of M&E in the autonomous provinces along with
the decentralization support component of this project.
Component 2 - Decentralization and pro-poor service delivery
This component would assist the GoM in further defining and implementing
the decentralization agenda in view of improving pro-poor service delivery
in key areas, rationalizing the relationship between the central,
provincial and local governments and operationalizing the newly
established autonomous provinces. Project support would focus on (i) the
further refinement of the regulatory, fiduciary, administrative and
judicial framework for decentralization in Madagascar. This would include
the establishment of adequate accountability and control mechanisms at the
sub-national level of government as well as assistance to set up the
judicial control mechanisms envisaged under the Constitution in all six
provinces ("Tribunaux Administratifs" and "Tribunaux Financiers"). (ii)
The development and implementation of a pro-poor and incentive-based
transfer system (in particular transfers to the communes and the
inter-provincial solidarity fund). This would include the establishment of
a monitoring & evaluation system at the provincial level to complement the
-2 -



central government framework for tracking the PSRP-implementation. (iii)
Support to the sectorial decentralization to adequately define and
operationalize pro-poor service delivery in key social services. (iii)
Comprehensive training and capacity building for the sub-national levels
of government, in particular in administrative and financial management.
In this context, it will also be necessary to significantly strengthen
capacity and quality of training institutions in Madagascar involved in
the delivery of training and capacity building. In line with the
government's strategy to strengthen the capacity for the provision of
in-country training support under the project will include the
establishment of a Distance Learning Center in Madagascar as part of the
Global Development Learning Network.
Component 3- Budget and expenditure management reform
The proposed component would support budget management reform, both in the
central and the new decentralized governments currently being installed.
It would build on previous reforms already completed or initiated and on a
pilot financed under PAIGEP I. The component would include three
sub-components: (i) Introduction of an integrated public finance
management system. The budget of the central government would be prepared
and managed on the basis of a comprehensive computerized system to which
all agencies involved in budget and expenditure management (Finance,
Budget, line ministries, central and de-concentrated offices of central
government) would be connected. The system would encompass the whole
national budget: wages, non-salary operating costs, investment, debt
service, income mobilization (customs, taxes). (ii) Development of a
financial management framework for the sub-national level of government
(decentralized governments). Support would be provided to establish and
operationalize the institutional and administrative framework for budget
and expenditure management at the provincial level. This would include an
roll-out of the integrated system tested in the province of Toamasina
under PAIGEP I to the other five provinces. (iii) Strengthen the audit and
control functions. The GoM is currently preparing a proposal to
comprehensively reform the internal and external audit functions in view
of putting in place an adequate framework and capacity. The project will
assist the GoM in implementing this reform strategy. It will particularly
focus on the transformation of the 'Chambre des Comptes' into a 'Cour des
Comptes' (Auditor General) and on the State General Inspectorate to enable
them to effectively fulfill their mandates.
Component 4 - Legal and judicial reform
The purpose of this component is to pursue the legal and judicial reform
agenda undertaken under PAIGEP I and, in so doing, consolidate its
achievements. The component would include four sub-component: (i)
Publication of Laws. The project would support the adoption and
implementation of the next phase of the publication program agreed upon
under PAIGEP I, including publication of laws not already covered under
the ongoing program, and a review of completed publications in the light
of legislative developments since their publication. It would also provide
support to strengthen the capacity of the unit of the Ministry of Justice
responsible for publication of laws. (ii) Law Reform. In this context,
support will focus on the adoption and implementation of a law reform
program, covering generally all laws which contribute to the establishment
of the rule of law, including business and business-related laws, laws on
corruption and other financial and economic crimes, laws which promote
- 3 -



gender equity, as well as those which promote compliance with
international treaties and obligations, including those arising under the
multilateral trade rules of the WTO and the GATT. This would also include
the provision of support to strengthen the capacity of the unit of the
Ministry of Justice responsible for law reform, and the review of the
role, functions and composition of the CRDA in order to better equip it to
participate in the law reform process. (iii) Training School. The project
would further strengthen the institutional capacity of ENMG, and provide
it with the material resources and information technology and support
services that it requires to improve its training facilities, enhance its
training curriculum and deliver quality training. This would include the
establishment of adequate physical facilities to house the ENMG. (iv)
Strengthening of the Ministry of Justice and the courts. The project will
strengthen the capacity of the newly-restructured units of the Ministry of
Justice and the courts, and facilitate the establishment of new
institutions provided for under the constitution. It will provide support
to review purpose and objectives of the incentive pay scheme, and
applicable eligibility criteria, in the light of experience gathered under
the existing project. The project will also review and further strengthen
as needed the code of ethics applicable to magistrates, in the light of
experience gathered since its adoption.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $5.00
IBRD
IDA $47.00
Total Project Cost $52.00
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented under the overall leadership of the Prime
Minister's Office by the Secretariat Technique d'Ajustement, the Direction
General du Developpement des Provinces Autonomes, by the Ministries of
Budget, Finance and Justice
7. Sustainability
The most critical factor for the sustainability of the complex reforms
initiated under the project is the high-level commitment of the GoM. To
this end, the GoM will submit to the Bank a Letter of Development Policy
outlining and specifying its commitment for the implementation of the
reform program.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project design reflects lessons learnt from previous Bank operations
in Madagascar
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        n/a
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Guenter Heidenhof
-4-



The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458 5591
Fax: 202-614 1191
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 5 -



