                                                                                                OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                                                         IDA/R2007-0100/1

                                                                                                                     May 3, 2007




                                                                                     Streamlined Procedure
                                                                                           For meeting of
                                                                                Board: Tuesday, May 22, 2007



FROM: Vice President and Corporate Secretary


                  Madagascar - Restructuring and Additional Financing of the
                          Governance and Institutional Development Project

                                                     Project Paper


         Attached is the Project Paper regarding a proposed Restructuring and Additional
Financing of the Governance and Institutional Development Project. (IDA/R2007-0100). This
project will be taken up at a meeting of the Executive Directors on Tuesday, May 22, 2007
under the Streamlined Procedure.




Distribution:

 Executive Directors and Alternates
 President
 Bank Group Senior Management
 Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
 Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC and MIGA




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Group authorization.

                                       Document of
                                      The World Bank

                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                 ReportNo: 39614   - MG


                                    PROJECT PAPER

                                           ONA

                       PROPOSEDRESTRUCTURINGOF THE

       GOVERNANCEAND INSTITUTIONALDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                   (CREDIT 3829-MAG)

                 AND ONA PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING
                                  (CREDIT 3829-1-MAG)

                       INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR3.4 MILLION
                           (US$5.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                          TO THE

                            REPUBLICOF MADAGASCAR




                                       April 25,2007




Public Sector Reformand Capacity BuildingUnit (AFTPR)
Africa Country Cluster 1(AFCS1)
Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         Currency Unit = Malagasy Ariary (MGA)
                                  US$1 = 1,848.50 MGA
                              US$1.53      = SDR 1

                                  FISCALYEAR
                             January 1     - December31



                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BdG     Bureau de Gestion (Management office)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDE     ContrGle des Dkpenses Engage'es (Office Responsible for Control of Budget Execution)
CG      Coordonnateur Gknkral(Genera1 Coordinator)
CNFA
cos     Centre National de Formation Administrative (National Administrative Training Center)
        Conseil d 'Orientation et de Suivi (Training and Monitoring Council)
CQ      Consultants' Qualification
CR      Comitk Restreint (Restricted Committee)
ENAM    Ecole Nationale de 1'Administration Malgache (National School o f Administration)
ENMG    Ecole Nationale de la Magistrature et des Grefes (National School o f Magistrates and
        Court Clerks)
FM      Financial Management
GDLN    Global Development Learning Center
GoM     Government o f Madagascar
I C     Individual Consultants
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IDA     International Development Association
IGE     Inspection Gknkrale de 1'Etat (Internal Audit Inspectorate attached to Office o f President)
IGF     Inspection Gknkrale des Finances (Internal Audit Inspectorate attached to Ministryof
        Economy, Finance andBudget))
MAP     Madagascar Action Plan
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
NLIM    National Leadership Institute o f Madagascar
NSO     National Statistics Office
PDO     Project Development Objective
PEFA    Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Assessment
PGDI    Governance and Institutional Development Project
PREA    Programme de Rkformes pour 1'Eficacitk de 1'Administration (Reform Program for the
        Efficiency o f the Administration)
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QCBS    Quality and Cost Based Selection
SBD      Standard BiddingDocuments
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SIGFP   SystgmeIntkgrk de Gestion des Finances Publiques (Integrated FinancialManagement
         Information System)
SOE      Statement o f Expenses
sss      Single Source
UNDP    UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram

                                                                                FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                 MADAGASCAR

                    RESTRUCTURINGOF THE GOVERNANCE AND INSTITUTIONAL
                               DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 3829-MAG)

                                                        AND

                              ADDITIONAL FINANCING(CREDIT 3829-1-MAG)

                                                Tableof Contents


            I' INTRODUCTORYSTATEMENT..............................................................................
             .                                                                                                                        1
            I1.     BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE FORRESTRUCTURINGAND

                    PROPOSEDCHANGES..............................................................................................
                    ADDITIONAL FINANCING.......................................................................................       1
            Iv.
            I11.                                                                                                                      3

                    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ............................................................................................
                    CONSISTENCYWITH THE CAS AND SAFEGUARDS.........................................                                   6
            V .
            V I.                                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                                      6
            VI1 .   APPRAISAL OF ADDITIONAL FINANCING..........................................................
            VI11. BENEFITS AND RISKS..............................................................................................
                    EXPECTEDOUTCOMES...........................................................................................       7

            Ix.     FINANCIALTERMS AND CONDITIONS FORADDITIONAL FINANCING......78


            ListofAnnexes

            Annex 1: Achievementsofthe OverallProgram......................................................................
            Annex 2: RevisedProjectDescriptionby Component...........................................................                 9
                                                                                                                                     11

            Annex 4: RevisedResults Framework (ExpectedOutcomes)................................................
            Annex 3: RevisedAllocation of Credit proceeds ...................................................................        20
                                                                                                                                     22
            Annex 5: ImplementationArrangements    ................................................................................  30


            List of Boxes

            Box 1: Achievementsofthe PGDIProgram
            Box 2: Overview RestructuringandAdditional Financing...................................................
                                                        ............................................................................  9
                                                                                                                                     11


            Listof Tables

            Table 1:Project Componentsby FinancingSources..............................................................              19

            Table 3: Allocationof Credit Proceeds for Additional Financing..........................................
            Table 2: RevisedAllocation of Credit Proceeds (without additionalfinancina)....................                          20

            Table 4: RevisedFinancial Summary.....................................................................................   20

            Table 5: Thresholds for ProcurementMethods andPrior Review ........................................                      21
                                                                                                                                     35


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties.Its contents may not be otherwise disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.


                                                     i


                                     Project Paper Data Sheet



 Date:            April 25,2007                        Team Leader:               Guenter Heidenhof
 Country:          Madagascar                          Sector Manager:            HelgaMuller
 Project Name: Governance and                          Country Director:          RitvaReinikka
 InstitutionalDevelopment Project (PGDI)               Environmental Category: C
 -
 and Additional Financing
 Project ID:      PO74448 and P105026
 Recipient:Republic ofMadagascar
 Responsible agency: Office o fthe President
                 -     -                                                      -
     P
 Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)




 Bank policies?                                                                       oYes    * N o


 Revisedproject development objectives/outcomes
 The development objective o f the Governance and Institutional Development Project
 (PGDI) and the additional financing is to improve the efficiency and transparency of
 government and public services in Madagascar in line with the Madagascar Action Plan
 (MAP)-by: (i)       reforming the public finance system; (ii)         strengthening capacity building
 and public sector service delivery; (iii)      reinforcing the Rule o f Law and the fight against
 corruption, and (iv) supporting monitoring and evaluation and conducting key statistical
 surveys for M A P implementation.
 Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? No
     P                                 For Additional Financing
 [ ] Loan     [XICredit [] Grant
 For Loans/Credits/Grants:
         Total additionalBank financing (US$m.):              US$5 million
         Proposed terms: Standard Credit (IDA)
                                        FinancingPlan (US$m.)
                       Source                               Local           Foreign         Total
 Recipient                                                    3.5             0.5             4.0
 IDA                                                         24.0            13.67          37.67
 Total                                                       27.5            14.17          41.67




1Deviation fiom the initial amount due to exchange rate fluctuation between SDR and USD.


                                                1




I. INTRODUCTORY,STATEMENT
    .
1.    This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to restructure the
Governance and Institutional Development Project (Credit 3829 MAG; P074448) and to
provide an additional financing (Credit 3829-1-MAG, P105026) for the project inthe amount
o f SDR 3.4 million (US$5 million equivalent) for the Republic of Madagascar.

2.      The proposed restructuring would require a modification o f the project's development
objective and o f some key performance indicators. While the project's performance to date
has been satisfactory, it i s now necessaryto restructure the project to allow for the following:
(i)adjustexistingcomponentsbasedontherecommendationsofthemidtermreview;(ii)add
a new component to strengthen the alignment with policy priorities o f the Government o f the
Republic o f Madagascar; and (iii)  reallocate the credit proceeds.

3.      The proposed additional financing would help finance the costs associated with
scaled-up activities that would enhance the development impact o f the project. Inparticular,
it would assist Government instrengthening the monitoring and evaluation framework for its
new development strategy - the Madagascar Action Plan (MAP) - and would help conduct
some key statistical surveys to support MAPimplementation.


11.     BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE FORRESTRUCTURINGAND
ADDITIONAL FINANCING

4.      The Governance and Institutional Development Project (PGDI) was approved by the
Board on October 22, 2003, and declared effective on March 3, 2004.               The project i s
scheduled to close on June 30, 2009.         The project aims at supporting governance and
institutional development reforms in the context o f the Government's development strategy-
initially the PRSP (2003-06) and now the Madagascar Action Plan (MAP) which provides
the strategic framework for all development activities in the country for the 2007-12 period.
This program is also supported by other development partners including the European
Commission, African Development Bank, France, Norway, Germany, M C A and UNDP. The
IDA contributionis a SDR 21.9 millioncredit ofwhich SDR 14.95 million(about 70% ofthe
original credit) has beendisbursedby April 2007. The remaining funds are fully committed.

5.      The initial Project Development Objective was to assist the Government of
Madagascar (GOM) in implementing its poverty reduction strategy which i s set out in the
2003 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) by (i)       rationalizing and modernizing budget
and public expenditure management, (ii)improving accountability and transparency o f
government operations, and (iii)   strengthening the capacity o f public institutions to deal with
complex change processes.

                                                2


6.      The project has the following project components:

                 i. improvement of transparency and economic governance through
                      supporting a comprehensive reform of the public finance system in
                 ..   Madagascar, mainly at the central level;
                 11.  capacity building, and strengthening o f local training institutions
                      which focuses on institutional development and capacity building
                      activities in selected government institutions such as the Ministry o f
                ...   Finance and Budget, and the Ministry o f Justice; and
                111.  establishment o f a project management system for the change process
                      to ensure effective implementation o f the reforms.

7.      Since its inception, the project has consistently been rated "satisfactory" both with
regard to implementation progress and to achieving the development objectives. It has also
met all relevant World Bank disbursement, procurement and fiduciary obligations.
Achievements o f the project are summarized in Annex 1. They include: the deployment o f
an integrated financial management system to improve transparency and accountability o f
government operations, the strengthening o f internal and external controls, the design o f a
new procedural and institutional framework for public procurement, change management
support for the key decision-makers within government and comprehensive training and
capacity building activities in the areas o f development planning, public financial
management and procurement; as well as the development o f a regulatory and institutional
framework to improve governance and to fight corruption.

8.      The project's    midterm review,        conducted in 2006,     confirmed the    good
implementation progress and the very high level o f Government ownership, flexibility and
effective partnership with the Bank. The review in particular commended the flexible and
innovative approach o f the project which has allowed it to respond to Government's needs
and adapt to policy priorities as they arose. The review noted the need to better adapt the
initial Project components to the policy priorities o f the Government and recommended a
formal restructuring o fthe Project to reflect these adjustments.

9.      Given the project's successful implementation experience to date, the Government
has requested the Bank to scale-up activities with the goal o f enhancing the development
impact o f the project.    The Government has requested additional financing mainly to
strengthen baseline data and the monitoring and evaluation framework for its new
development strategy, the Madagascar Action Plan (MAP). The MAP was launched in
November 2006 and is the Government's second-generation PRSP that lays out an ambitious
development plan for 2007-2012. It outlines the commitments, strategies and actions that are
expected to ignite rapid growth and lead to the reduction o f poverty. The MAP recognizes
the critical need for improving the country's statistical base and for developing a
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation (M&E) framework that will allow for effective
implementation o f the strategy.

10.     The project had supported the implementation o f the government's              initial
development strategy (PRSP) and provided some limited funding for monitoring &

                                                 3


evaluation activities - mainly training and capacity building. At the time o f project approval,
more substantive funding for monitoring & evaluation was not considered as important as
other institutional development needs. This situation changed significantly with the process
of elaborating the MAP as it became apparent that many o f the development areas targeted
under the MAP lack reliable statistical data. In addition, there is no consistent policy for
monitoring & evaluation in place with a procedural and institutional framework flawed by
unclear and often overlapping responsibilities. To address this issue, the Government intends
to develop a consistent monitoring & evaluation framework to support the MAP'S
implementation. It has identified the need to establish a reliable set o f social and economic
data, to strengthen analytical and forecasting capabilities within the public administration and
to prepare a National Strategy for Statistical Development.

11.     The Government and the Bank agree that the project i s the best instrument to provide
support in this regard because of: (i)its successful implementation track record to date; (ii)
the obvious synergies between the project's on-going activities and the new demands o f the
MAP framework; and (iii) cross-cutting and multi-sectoral nature that is appropriate for
                             its
the challenges o f a multi-dimensional monitoring & evaluation framework.

12.     Due to the advanced disbursement and commitment status o f the project, and despite
full rationalization and prioritization of project activities conducted as part o f the project
restructuring, the existing project resources are deemed insufficient to address the demand
for additional support to the MAP. As a result, the Government has requested additional
financing for an amount o f US$5 million.


111.    PROPOSEDCHANGES

13.     Project development objective.         The proposed changes will require a slight
modification o f the project's development objective to reflect the link to the new
development strategy o f the Government.          The modified PDO is stated as follows: to
improve the efficiency and transparency o f government and public services inMadagascar in
line with the Madagascar Action Plan (MAP). Additional changes to the project design
include: (i) the reorganization o f the existing components, and (ii) addition o f new project
                                                                     the
components in line with the policy priorities o f the Government.            A revised Project
Description by Component i s provided inAnnex 2, a revised allocation o f Credit Proceeds, i s
provided inAnnex 3; and the revised and updated Results Framework i s attached inAnnex 4.

 14.    Adjustment of existing components. These adjustments will include:

(a) Reorganization of project components. To better align the project to the priorities
outlined in the MAP, the existing three project components would be reorganized into the
following four components: (i)   reform o f the public finance system, (ii)
                                                                          capacity buildingand
public sector service delivery, (iii)Rule o f Law and fight against corruption, and (iv)
program coordination. This reorganization would also acknowledge changes to some sub-
components since the inception o f the project, inparticular the strong emphasis on leadership
development and change management support as a cornerstone o f the capacity building
agenda, as well as the comprehensive support to strengthen public financial management and

                                               4


procurement inpriority ministries (e.g. education, health, nutrition, transport, agriculture, and
environment). Annex 3 providesmore details about the revised allocation o f Credit Proceeds
for the reorganized project components.

(b) Adding of new sub-components. Based on a comprehensive dialogue with the
Government and other development partners, project funding has been provided for some
activities that emerged during the implementation o f the project. While these activities are in
line with the objective o f the project to provide assistance for the implementation o f the
development strategy o f the Government, they are not explicitly mentioned in the initial
PAD. These activities include:

        Increased revenue performance has become a top priority o f the Government. To
        achieve this, the Government has initiated a reform of the revenue agencies
        (customs and tax administrations).    The project is providing assistance to improve
        efficiency and effectiveness o f these administrations through procedural and
        institutional changes. Project funding i s focusing on modernizing operations, as well
        as on training and capacity building. This complements ongoing assistance by other
        development partners, inparticular the IMF, France and the World Customs Union.

        To address the significant demand in both public and private sectors for leadership
        development and change management, the Government established in late 2006 the
        "National Leadership Institute of Madagascar" (NLIM). The NLIM intends to
        complement technical training which i s provided by other local training institutions,
        in particular the "Ecole Nationale de l 'Administration Malgache, ENAM" and the
        "Centre National de Formation Administrative, CNFA" (both are supported by the
        project). The project has provided seed money to set up the NLIM and to develop its
        curricula and training program and further support i s envisaged for technical
         assistance, equipment and operating costs.
        To strengthen implication of civil society in State affairs i s a key objective o f the
        MAP. Based on the Government's request, the project has provided some funding to
         conduct a pilot citizens score card exercise for a few selected health centers. It i s
         envisaged to use the experience from this pilot to enhance and further deepen
        participatory monitoring o f government activities. The project will provide funding
         for these activities, mainly for technical assistance. This will complement activities
        byNGOs and other development partners.

15.     Activities supported by additional financing.        The additional financing would
support the implementation o f activities which would scale-up the project's impact and
development effectiveness. It would focus on two main areas (i)the development of a
consistent monitoring & evaluation framework to assist MAP implementation and (ii)
financial support for key statistical surveys which are considered critical for the MAP. These
activities would be summarized under one new project component (Component 4 in Annex
2) "Monitoring and Evaluation o f the MAP and Key Statistical Surveys". This component
has the following sub-components:

                                              5


       Developmentof a consistentmonitoring& evaluationframework

       This sub-component would focus on developing and implementing a consistent
       monitoring & evaluation strategy for the whole o f Government. A key element of this
       strategy is the National Strategy for Statistical Development which i s currently being
       prepared. This strategy will include the development o f a revised regulatory and
       procedural framework for government statistics which would integrate and coordinate
       all relevant government activities. In addition, the institutional responsibilities of the
       relevant government institutions (e.g. President's Office, Prime Minister's Office,
       MinistryofPlan, Ministryo f Finance and Budget, Structural Adjustment Secretariat,
       and National Statistics Office) will need to be clarified. Project funding will provide
       technical assistance to address these issues; it will also help modernize the relevant
       institutions.  Significant training and capacity building activities will complement
       these activities; they will focus on improving the operational efficiency o f the
       aforementioned key institutions and o f the sector ministries inthe area of monitoring
       & evaluation.     This will include an upgrading of the capacity of local training
       institutionsto design and deliver relevant training courses.

       Key statisticalsurveys to support MAP implementation

       This sub-component would assist the Government in conducting some key statistical
       surveys that are important for evaluating the progress o f M A P implementation:

       As a top priority, the Government has identifiedthe need to update its key economic
       and social data based on a new population census. The last census was completed in
        1993; the economic, social, and administrative structure o f Madagascar has
       profoundly changed since then. As a consequence, many o f the existing baseline data
       i s outdated. The Government i s in the process o f soliciting support by development
       partners for the population census which i s estimated to cost about US$18 million.
        The project will support a complete cartographic survey o f Madagascar which i s a
       pre-requisite for the census and would already provide important information about
        the socio-economic changes inthe country. Support will focus on consulting services
        and equipment; complementary funding for the cartographic survey will be provided
       byUNFPA and MCA.

        Financingwill also be providedfor strengthening the capacity inthe National Statistic
        Office to develop and implement additional statistical surveys which will provide
        important information for the implementation o f the Government strategy such as the
       External Trade Index, the Consumer Price Index, the Industrial Production Index,
        and the Index of Industrial, Energy and Mining Related Production.

16.    Implementation arrangements. The implementation arrangements for the activities
covered by the additional financing would be the same as for the ongoing project. The
Office of the President will continue to monitor and coordinate the implementation o f the
project.    Further details concerning oversight, technical implementation,             financial
management, monitoring and evaluation are summarized inAnnex 5.

                                               6



17.     Project funding will include the financing o f a limited number o f government staffs
salaries until December 31, 2007, mainly to recruit technical specialists recruited into the
President's Office and in the National Statistics Office. These expenditures are in line with
the requirements of recurrent cost financing parameters as specified inBP 6.00 o f April 2004
and the relevant Guidelines o f April 16, 2004. In view o f the limited flexibility in the
recurrent budget, the Government i s not able to pick up the funding in 2007. World Bank
support would allow the Government to gradually integrate these recurrent expenditures into
subsequent budget years.


IV.     CONSISTENCY WITH THE CAS AND SAFEGUARDS

18.     The restructured project will better reflect the revised implementation priorities set
forward by the Government in the MAP. These priorities are in line with the new FY07-11
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Madagascar which emphasizes the importance o f
responsible governance and accountability as key systemic elements to create an enabling
environment for growth and investment, as well as to improve services to the people. The
CAS, which was presented to the Board in April 2007, also emphasizes the need to improve
the statistical baseline and the monitoring & evaluation system o f the Government because o f
the results-based nature o f both the CAS and the MAP and because o f the critical role o f
monitoring & evaluation inensuring successful implementation o f the MAP

19.     The safeguards assessment @.e., environmental category `Cy) remains unchanged.
The restructuring and additional financing proposal does not involve any exception to Bank
policies.


V.      ECONOMIC ANALYSIS

20.     The economic analysis for the restructured project including the proposed additional
financing remains unchanged; the project i s expected to have a significant impact on the
efficiency and effectiveness o f Government operations.


VI.     APPRAISAL OFADDITIONAL FINANCING

21.     The activities supported by the additional financing are expected to have a positive
fiscal impact. The development o f a new monitoring & evaluation system for the
Government and the collection o f baseline data to assess the impact o f government policies
will ultimately result in better use o f public resources. The project design corresponds to
technical and financial standards and best practice that exist for such interventions. The
procurement plan for the restructured project has been reviewed and approved.             The
procurement and financial capacity o f the implementing agency has been subject to regular
evaluations that have confirmed the overall good quality o f procurement and financial
management arrangements.

                                                7




VII.    EXPECTED OUTCOMES

22.     The revised results matrix for the project i s summarized in Annex 4.        Expected
outcomes include: (i)  an increase in the number o f indicators under the Public Expenditure
and Financial Accountability Assessment (PEFA) which are rated `By and above; (ii)an
increase in the percentage o f population reporting an improvement in service delivery for
selected public services, and (iii)an improvement inthe ranking o f Madagascar inthe annual
Transparency InternationalAnti-Corruption Perception Index.

23.      Some o f the key results indicators to measure implementation progress and success
include: (i)an increase in the number o f public institutions executing their annual budgets
through the new integrated financial management system; (ii)    a significant number o f sector
ministries with budget execution rates of 90 percent and above; (iii) increase in the
                                                                            an
percentage o f public procurement processes that are assessed as conforming to the new
procurement regulations; (iv) a significant number o f sector ministries that meet the targets
of their annual work plans; (v) an increase inthe number o f qualified trainers and staff inthe
areas o f development planning, public financial management, procurement, and monitoring
& evaluation, and (vi) the reduction of the proportion of average expenditure paid by
households for bribery for public services.


VIII. BENEFITSAND RISKS

24.      Some o f the key benefits o f the project include: (i)increased transparency and
accountability o f government operations based on comprehensive public financial
management and procurement reforms; (ii)transformation o f the annual budget into a
management instrument that supports timely and accurate tracking o f implementation o f
government policies; (iii)significantly enhanced government capacity in the areas o f
development planning, public financial management, procurement, and monitoring &
evaluation. The project also contributes to simplifying complex administrative proceedings
and to rationalizing the institutional framework within which the public administration
operates. It builds on modem methodologies (e.g. leadership development, rapid results) to
improve operational efficiency o f the administration.

25.      The project benefits from a strong sense of Government ownership and a close
affiliation with the Government's core agenda. Some adjustments are necessary to improve
the consistency with the Government's agenda. To-date, implementation has made good
progress as evidenced by the achievements o f the project which are outlined in Annex 1.
Implementation capacity o f the Government team has been regularly evaluated with positive
results overall.

26.      The Project carries substantial risk: its implementation poses a significant challenge
for the Government because o f the complexity o f the changes supported by the project
activities and the substantive capacity building needs to ensure success and sustainability o f
the reforms. To mitigate existing risks a comprehensive project monitoring and evaluation

                                             8


framework (see Annex 4) has been developed that will serve as a reference point for the
implementation o f the reform program. In addition, independent quality assurance
mechanisms have been put inplace to evaluate reform implementation on a regular basis and
to provide regular feedback about implementation bottlenecks.


IX.    FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FORADDITIONAL FINANCING.

27.    Additional financing will be provided by an IDA Credit with standard financial terms
and conditions, repayable in40 years, including a grace period o f 10 years.

                                                            9



                          Annex 1:Achievements of the OverallProgram

The achievements o f the Governance and Institutional Development Project (PGDI) are
summarized below. The summary is based on the results o f the Mid-Term Review of the
program which was conducted in the second half o f 2006. Current ISR rating is
`satisfactory'.


                             Box 1: Achievements of the PGDIProgram2


                                               Major Outputs                                      Impact

Public finance              Establishmentof a reform coordinationunit inthe            More transparent, timely
reforms                     Ministry of Financeand Budget                              and accurate reportingand
                            Development of an integratedfinancial management           more effective internal
                            system anddeployment o f the systemto all key treasuries   control.
                            Organizationalrestructuringof the Treasury
                            Establishmentof an internal control cadre for the Treasury Increased capacityin
                            (Brigade de TrCsor)                                        public financial
                            Institutional strengtheningof other internal and external  management
                            control mechanisms(e.g. InspectionGCnCralede l'Etat,
                            Auditor General, FinanceCommissionsofParliament)
                            Comprehensivetraining and capacitybuilding supportto
                            institutionalize public financereforms at the level ofthe
                            sector ministries
Procurementreforms          New procurementregulationsapprovedby Parliament            Madagascarprocurement
                            New procurementoversight authority establishedand          regulationsare inline with
                            operational                                                international standards
                            Comprehensivetraining and capacitybuilding to
                            institutionalize procurementreforms at the sector          Increased capacityin
                            ministries' level                                          public procurement
Revenueagency               Customsreform action plan developedand implemented.        More transparent and
reform                      Plan focuses inter alia onmodernizing customs operations   efficient customs
                            and on addressingcorruption inthe customs service          operationsmeeting
                                                                                       revenue targets outlined in
                                                                                       the annual budget
Fight against               Modern regulatoryframework inthe fight against             Entirely new framework
corruption                  corruption developedthat includes anti-corruption          for the fight against
                            framework legislation, asset declaration, strengtheningof  corruption put inplace
                            investigativeauthority, establishmentof a specialized      which is regarded as an
                            investigativeunit to prepare court proceedingsetc.         efficient instrumentto
                            Anti-corruption Commissionand Anti-corruption Bureau       address corruption inthe
                            set up and operational                                     public sector
                            Anti-corruption survey(s) conductedand published
Strengtheningof             Capacityof local training institutions significantly       More high quality training
local training              enhancedto deliver training inhigh priority areas such as  can be organizedand
institutions                developmentplanning, public financial managementand        conductedlocally
                            procurement
                            National LeadershipInstitute establishedand operational
                            Global Development LearningCenter under construction
                            to integrateMadagascarinto the global distancelearning
                            network


'Assessment   i s based on the results o f the mid-termreview o f the Madagascar PGDI, July 28,2006

                                                     10




     ' Area                              Major Outputs                                     Impact

Leadership           Leadershipsupportfor senior government level                Improved consistencyo f
developmentand       strengthenedresults focus and team orientation              governmentpolicy and
capacitybuilding     Establishmentof areform unit inthe President'sOffice        focus on results
                     Developmentof the Madagascar Action Plan
                     Introduction and successful application o f the `rapid      New developmentstrategy
                     resultsmethodology' to improve cross-sectoral               (Madagascar Action Plan)
                     collaborationand to generatevisible andtangible results in  provides orientation and
                     the short term (e.g. increasedrice production, better       guidanceto all
                     primary health care and increasedrevenuegenerationat        government services
                     the communelevel)
Legal andjudicial    Significant reduction of the backlog o f cases at the lower Acceleratedproceedings
reforms              courts(more than 35,000 case inAntananarivoand other        at the level of the lower
                     jurisdictions)                                              courts
                     Developmentof a statisticalbaselineto monitor court
                     performance                                                 Monitoring & evaluation
                     Establishmentof pilotjurisdictions which operate on the     framework to oversee
                     basis oftransparent service standards                       performanceo f lower
                     Comprehensivetraining and capacitybuilding for              courts
                     magistratesand court clerks

                                                       11




                   Annex 2: Revised Project Description by Component


The Governance and Institutional Development Project (PGDI) took off inMarch 2004. The
project aims at supporting governance and institutional reforms in the context o f the
Government's development strategy, which i s the Madagascar Action Plan (MAP). The
elements of the initial project as well as the restructuring proposal and the proposed
additional financing are summarized inBox 2 below.


                Box 2: Overview Restructuring and Additional Financing

                                                    ProposedRestructuring and
                        Initial Project                  Additional Financing               Comments

Project       To assist the Government o f        To improvethe efficiency and
Development   Madagascar(GoM) in                  transparency of government and
Objective     implementingthe poverty             public servicesin Madagascarin
              reduction strategy which is set out line with the Madagascar Action
              inthe PovertyReduction Strategy     Plan(MAP)
              Paper (PRSP)
Component 1   Improvement of transparency         Reform of the public finance       Componentwas
              and economic governance             system                             reorganizedto integrate
                                                                                     all reforms o f the public
              (i) Developmentof an integrated     (i) Budgetpreparationand           finance system.
              financial management system         executionimproved
                                                                                     New sub-component
              (ii)Strengtheningofinternaland      (ii) Internal and externalcontrol  focuses on revenue
              externalcontrols                    mechanismsstrengthened             agency refarms

              (iii)Completion ofprocurement       (iii) Public procurementsystem     Changemanagement,
              reforms                             operatesin line with international coordinationand
                                                  standards                          monitoring &
              (iv) Strengtheningchange                                               evaluationwas
              management,coordination,            (iv) Revenueagencies(customs,      transferredto
              monitoring & evaluation             tax administration) strengthened   component2

                                                  (v) Public financial management
                                                  andprocurementinselected
                                                  public institutions strengthened

                                                      12



                                                   ProposedRestructuringand
                           Initial Project             AdditionalFinancing                     Comments

                                                 Capacitybuildingand public           New componentreflects
                 strengtheningof local training  sector service delivery
                 institutions                                                         (i) emphasisof
                                                                                           strong
                                                                                      changemanagement
                 (i)SupportfortheMinistryof      (i) Changemanagementcapacity         and leadership
                 Budget andFinance               and leadershipquality improved       developmentas a key
                                                                                      element o f the
                 (ii)Supportfor the Ministry of  (ii) Managementcapacity in           government's capacity
                 Justice                         selectedpublic institutions          building agenda.
                                                 strengthened
                 (iii) servicedelivery
                      Pilot                                                           (ii) integrates financing
                 improvement                     (iii)Servicedeliveryprocessesin      of the National
                                                 selectedpublic sector institutions   LeadershipInstitute
                 (iv) Strengtheningof local      improved                             (NLIM)
                 training institutions
                                                 (iv) Local training institutions      (iii) integratessupport
                 (v) Establishmentof a Distance  strengthened                          for DistanceLearning
                 Learning Center                                                       Center under the sub-
                                                 (v) Global DevelopmentLearning        componentthat deals
                                                 Center established                   with local training
                                                                                       institutions

Component3      IProject Management              Rule of Law and fight against        New componentreflects
                                                 corruption                            emphasis of
                                                                                       government's
                                                 (i) Quality of legal andjudicial      developmentstrategy
                                                 services in selected areas            on legal andjudicial
                                                 improved                              reforms, the fight
                                                                                       against corruption, as
                                                 (ii)Regulatoryandinstitutional        well as more
                                                 framework for the fight against       transparent government
                                                 corruption developed                  operations

                                                 (iii)Implication o f civil society in New subcomponent
                                                 State affairs strengthened            focuses on support to
                                                                                       civil society activities to
                                                 (iv) (Finance) commissionsof          monitor State affairs
                                                 Parliament (National Assembly
                                                 and Senate) strengthened

ComponentQ
               ~                                 Monitoring & evaluation of the        New componentfor
                                                 MAP and key statistical surveys       which additional
                                                                                       financing is requested
                                                 (i)Proceduralandinstitutional
                                                 framework for the
                                                 implementation of the MAP
                                                 strengthened
                                                 (ii) Key statistical surveys to
                                                 support MAP implementation
                                                 conducted

Component 5                                      ProgramCoordination                   N o changeto old
                                                                                       project management
                                                                                       component

                                                 13



The revised components and main changes to the existing project are summarized below:

ProjectComponent1 Reformof Public FinanceSystem(US$16 million)
                         -

The objective o f this component is to support in a holistic manner the reform o f the public
finance system in Madagascar. The restructuring o f the component reflects the Government
request to incorporate revenue agency reforms and comprehensive capacity building
activities at the sector ministry level into the reform agenda. Inaddition, the component will
support simplification o f budget preparation and execution procedures. The restructuring
reflects implementation experience with public finance reforms since the inception of the
project, in particular the need to increase assistance for the institutionalization o f public
finance reforms at the level o f the Malagasy public administration.

The component comprises the following sub-components:

  a. Improvement of the budget preparationand executionprocesses (US$11.O million).
      Support will focus on improving transparency and timeliness o f the public preparation
     process, including the development o f a budget framework paper and the strengthening
      o f the relevant planning and preparation functions inthe Ministryo f Finance. The sub-
                                                                                      ,
      component will continue to finance the development o f an integrated financial
      management system (SystBme Inte'gre' de Gestion des Finances Publiques, SIGFP)
      which will provide timely, accurate and up-to-date information on budget allocations,
      commitment and actual expenditures. At the time o f negotiations o f the initial project
      the development of this system was estimated to cost US$25.0m. Inthe course of the
      project implementation these cost estimates have been adjusted downwards to
      US$11.Om (excluding capacity building). The savings from this sub-component have
      been used to support revenue agency reforms, and to substantially increase the
      assistance for change management, institutionaldevelopment and capacity building.

  b. Strengthening of internal and external control mechanisms (US$0.5 million).
      Project support will focus on improving the operational efficiency o f the Malagasy
      institutions that provide fiduciary oversight and control. These institutions include: the
      General Government Inspectorate (Inspection Gkne'rale de 1'Etat - IGE), the
      Commitment Control (ContrGZe des De'penses Engage'es - CDE), the internal control
      cadre o f the Treasury (Brigade du Trksor),the Auditor General (Cour des Comptes) and
      the general internal control cadre (Inspection Ge'ne'raledes Finances -IGF).

  c. Reform of the public procurement system with the objective to upgrade it to
      international standards (US$1.5 million). Continued support will be provided for public
      procurement reforms, in particular the implementation o f the new procurement
      regulations have consolidated the fragmented legal, institutional and organizational
      framework for processing public procurement. To ensure that the new regulations will
      be adequately applied assistance will continue to be provided for the new Procurement
      Oversight Institution as well as for procurement entities inthe sector ministries.

                                                14


 d. Support for revenue agency reforms (US$1.O million) (new sub-component).
     Increased revenue performance has become a top priority o f the Government. To
     achieve this the Government has initiated a reform o f the revenue agencies (customs
     and tax administrations). The Project i s providing assistance to improve efficiency and
     effectiveness o f these administrations through procedural and institutional changes.
     Project funding will focus on modernizing operations, as well as on training and
     capacity building. This complements ongoing assistance by other development partners,
     inparticular the IMF,France andthe WorldCustomsUnion.

 e. Related capacity building support for public sector institutions (US$2.0 million).
     To ensure the sustainability o f public financial management and procurement reforms,
     significant investments in capacity building (awareness creation, training and
     monitoring) at all relevant levels o f the public service will be provided to ensure that the
     changes to the regulatory and institutional framework will be adequately applied.
     Support will focus on training and capacity building activities for all key ministries, in
     particular health, education, public works, transport, environment and agriculture.

Fundingunder this component will beprovided for goods and equipment, inparticular insoft
and hardware including the installation o f a wide-area network, consulting services including
specialized training and project management; rehabilitation and maintenance o f offices; as
well as for training and capacity buildingactivities. .

Project Component 2         -  Capacity building, and public sector service delivery
(US$12.5 million)

The objective o f this component i s to support the change management and institutional
development processes in the context o f the implementation o f the Government's
development strategy (Madagascar Action Plan, MAP). This will include leadership training
and development for senior government officials to manage and implement far-reaching
reforms. Support will also include an upgrading o f local training institutions as well as the
establishment o f a Global Development Learning Center (GDLN) and o f a National
Leadership Institute o f Madagascar (NLIM).

The component comprises the following sub-components:
   Improvement of change management capacity and leadership quality (US$6.0
   million). The project will support change management processes in the context o f the
   implementation o'f the MAP, in particular in the President's Office, in the Prime
   Minister's Office and inpriority ministries such as education, health, transport and public
   works. Based on the demand o f the Government, the support for this sub-component has
   been significantly scaled-up. Assistance will include leadership support (coaching and
   advising) o f senior government officials (President, Prime Minister, Ministers, Permanent
    Secretaries) by the Leadership Center o f Harvard University and the Kennedy School o f
   Government, in the United States. The program will focus on key leadership challenges
   both at the institutional and individual levels to ensure consistency and to improve
   efficiency o f the core government team.          Support will also include the piloting o f
   innovative change management methodologies such as the "rapid results" approach to

                                            15


accelerate reform implementation and to assist Government to overcome existing
procedural and institutional constraints that hamper the effective implementation o f the
reform program.

Strengthening of        management capacity in selected public institutions
(US$2.0 million). To assure adequate implementation o f the development strategy o f the
Government project support will be provided to selected public sector institutions
(Ministries o f Finance, Education, Health, Transport, Public Works, Agriculture and
Justice) to adequately manage and decisively implement the reforms outlined in the
Madagascar Action Plan (MAP). This will include set up and support for dedicated
technical teams inthe targeted institutions that are tasked to monitor the reform activities.
Specialized technical assistance will be provided in the area o f institutional and
procedural development.

Improvement of service delivery processes in selected public sector institutions
(US$O.S million).     Key objective is to improve service delivery and produce visible
results in the short term. Targeted services include customs, land titling, primary health
and nutrition services and the lower courts. Support under this project will focus on
developing service standards, on capacity building, workshops as well as beneficiary and
impact assessmentsaimed at reforming selected public services.

Strengthening of local training institutions (US$3.0 million).              Local training
institutions play a major role in the provision o f capacity building required under this
project. They will be enabled to deliver high-quality training and capacity building, in
particular in the areas o f public finance management, general administration, monitoring
& evaluation, legal and judicial reforms. Support will be provided to the following
institutions:
    >    NationalLeadershipInstituteof Madagascar (NLIM) (new element of the sub-
         component). To address the significant demand inboth public and private sectors
         for leadership development and change management the Government established
         in late 2006 the NLIM. The institute intends to complement technical training
         which i s provided by other local training institutions, in particular the "Ecole
         Nationale de 1'Administration Malgache (ENAM) and the Centre National de
         Formation Administrative (CNFA), both are supported by the Project.             The
         project has provided seed money to set up the institute and to develop its curricula
         and training program.     Further support is envisaged for technical assistance,
         equipment and operating costs o fNLIM.

    >    National School of Administration (Ecole Nationale de Z'Administration
        Malgache, ENAM). World Bank support has been provided for the following
         areas: (i)review and modernization o f curricula and training materials; (ii)
         organizational restructuring o f the school to modernize school administration and
         improve operational efficiency.

    P National Center for Administrative Training (Centre National de Formation
        Administrative, CNFA). World Bank support i s focusing on the development o f

                                               16


            new curricula and updatedtraining material, on the training o f professional staff,
            on some equipment to increase the capacity o f the center and modernize its
            training facilities, and on providing hnds for training o f technical level civil
            servants mainly at the sub-national levels o f Government.

        P NationalSchoolfor Magistrates and Clerks of the Court (Ecole Nationale de
            la Magistrature et des Greffees, ENMG). The project will continue to support
            ENMG to complement the legal/judicial reforms initiated by the Government.
            The support will focus on the modernization o f the curricula and the training
            program, on equipping the new facilities o f the school, on the training of trainers
            and other professional staff, on providing funds for training o f magistrates, clerks
            and other personnel in the judicial system and on other specialized technical
            assistance to enable the school to fulfill its mandate.

   Establishment of a GlobalDevelopmentLearning Center (GDLN) (US$1.O million).
    Support will continue to be provided for the establishment o f a GDLN and for the
   integration o f Madagascar into the GDLN network.              The project will finance the
    construction o f the GDLNincluding the equipment and other installations. It will support
   the development o f a training program. The project will also finance operating costs for
   the center o n a decreasing basis. The first year, the project will cover 80% o f the center's
    operating costs. This will be reduced by 20 percent for each o f the following years.

Project Component3 Rule of law and fight against corruption (US$2.17 million)
                         -

The objective o f the component is to assist Government in promoting transparency,
accountability and good governance; and in particular, in reducing corruption. Project
assistance, which is closely coordinated with other development partners, will focus on
support for legal and judicial reforms, on strengthening the institutional and procedural
framework in the fight against corruption, on improving the implication o f civil society in
State affairs, and on enhancing the oversight function o f Parliament.

The component comprises the following sub-components:

    Improvement of the quality of legal and judicial services (US$0.6 million). Project
    support will be provided to expedite civil and commercial proceedings with the objective
    to significantly reduce the backlog and to increase the efficiency o f the proceedings. To
    further improve the efficiency o f the judiciary service standards and evaluation methods
    used in judicial work will be examined and re-evaluated. Technical assistance will be
    provided for the design and the dissemination o f these methods. To ensure effective
    oversight and to combat corruption the internal control cadre o f the Ministry o f Justice,
    the Judicial Services Inspectorate, will be further strengthened. The existing system o f
    oversight will be rationalized.

    Development of a regulatory and institutional framework to fight corruption
    (US$1.O million). The project will continue to provide assistance to the Anti-Corruption
    Bureau and the Anti-Corruption Commission which were established in 2002 as key

                                               17


    instruments o f the Government to reduce corruption. Support includes technical advisory
    services as well as support for surveys and other instruments that establish and track
    baseline information about the incidence o f corruption.       Additional support will be
    provided to harmonize and further develop the regulatory framework for governance and
    corruption in Madagascar, including an anti-corruption legislation and decrees to
    operationalize the regulations o f the law.

    Implication of civil society in State affairs (US0.2 million) (new sub-component). The
    strengthening o f civil society and o f "social accountability" are key objectives o f the
    MAP.Based on Government request the project hasprovided some funding to conduct a
    pilot citizens score card exercise for a few selected health centers. It is envisaged to use
    the experience from this pilot to enhance and further deepen participatory monitoring o f
    government activities. The project will continue to provide funding for these activities,
    mainly for technical assistance. This will complement activities by NGOs and other
    development partners.

    Strengthening of finance commissions of Parliament (US$0.37 million).                Project
    support will focus on enhancing the capacity o f the finance commissions o f the two
    chambers o f Parliament (National Assembly and Senate) inthe area o f public finance, in
    particular, to scrutinize the work o f the Auditor General and to strengthen its role as an
    external oversight institution (analyze the reports o f the Auditor General and to initiate a
    Parliamentary debate about the findings). Assistance will be provided for training and
    capacity building o f the members of the Public Finance Committees, some basic
    equipment to enable research and preparation o f reports as well as for some funds to
    commissionstudies and evaluations inthe areas o fpublic finance.

Project Component 4 Monitoring & evaluation of the MAP and key statistical surveys
                         -
(US$5.0 million) (new componentfor which additionalfinancing is requested)

This new project component aims at scaling-up the impact o f project activities and at
improving its development effectiveness. Financing would focus on two main areas (i)          the
development o f a consistent monitoring & evaluation framework to assist MAP
implementation and (ii)    financial support for key statistical surveys which are considered
critical for the MAP.

The component comprises the following sub-components:

    Development of a consistent monitoring & evaluation framework (US$2.5 million).
    Funding would focus on developing and implementing a consistent monitoring &
    evaluation strategy for the whole o f Government. A key element o f this strategy i s the
    National Strategy for Statistical Development which i s currently being prepared. This
    strategy will include the development o f revisedregulatory and procedural framework for
    government statistics which would integrate and coordinate all relevant government
    activities. In addition, the institutional responsibilities o f the relevant government
    institutions (e.g. President's Office, Prime Minister's Office, Ministry o f Plan, Ministry
    o f Finance, Structural Adjustment Secretariat, and National Statistics Office) will needto

                                              18


   be clarified. Project funding will provide technical assistance to address these issues; it
   will also help modernize the relevant institutions. Significant training and capacity
   building activities will complement these activities; they will focus on improving the
    operational efficiency o f the aforementioned key institutions and o f the sector ministries
    inthe areaofmonitoring & evaluation. This will include anupgradingo fthe capacity of
    local training institutionsto design and deliver relevant training courses.

    Key statistical surveys to support MAP implementation (US$2.5 million). Funding
   would assist government inconducting some key statistical surveys that are important for
    evaluating the progress o f M A P implementation: As a top priority the government has
    identifiedthe needto update its key economic and social data based on a new population
    census. The last census was completed in 1993; the economic, social, and administrative
    structure o f Madagascar has profoundly changed since then. As a consequence, many o f
    the existing baseline data i s outdated. The government is in the process of soliciting
    support by development partners for the population census which i s estimated to cost
    about US$18 million.       The project will support a complete cartographic survey of
   Madagascar which is a prerequisite for the census and would already provide important
    information about the socio-economic changes in the country. Support will focus on
    consulting services and equipment. Financing will also be provided to strengthen the
    capacity in the National Statistic Office to develop and implement additional statistical
    surveys which will provide important information for the implementation o f the
    Government strategy such as the External Trade Index, the Consumer Price Index, the
    Industrial Production Index, and the Index o f Industrial, Energy and Mining Related
    Production.

Project Component5 - ProgramCoordination(US$2.0 million)

The objective o f this component i s to support the Bureau de Gestion (BdG) du Programme
pour la Bonne Gouvernance, le De'veloppement Institutionnel et la Re'duction de la Pauvrete'
(PGDI) to administrate and supervise the PGDIproject activities. The project will finance the
recurrent costs (salaries and operation costs) o f the BdG, o f the National Coordinator and
other technical advisors who are deemed necessary to ensure adequate project
implementation.     Funding will also include external auditing and accounting assistance
(consultants). Additional short term consultants will be recruited for the assistance to the
BdG during the supervision of the project, in particular for regular independent audits of
implementation progress and impact assessments. The project will also fund additional
equipment and relevant training o f the BdGstaff,

Project funding for components 2 and 4 will include the financing o f a limitednumber o f
government staffs salaries until December 31, 2007, mainly to recruit technical specialists
recruited into the President's Office and inthe National Statistics Office. These expenditures
are in line with the requirements o f recurrent cost financing parameters as specified in BP
6.00 o f April 2004 and the relevant Guidelines o f April 16, 2004. In view o f the limited
flexibility inthe recurrent budget the Government i s not able to pick up the funding in2007.
World Bank support would allow the Government to gradually integrate these recurrent
expenditures into subsequentbudget years.

                                          19



A summary o fthe cost o fthe program andthe financing plan is shownbelow:

                     Table 1:Project Components by Financing Sources

         Project Component                   IDA         Government*       Total

                                           US$m                US$m        US$m
1.Reform ofpublic finance system             16.0               2.0        18.0
2. Capacity buildingandpublic sector         12.5               0.7        13.2
service delivery
3. Rule of law and fight against             2.17               0.7        2.87
corruption
4. Monitoring & evaluation o f the MAP        5.0               0.0         5.0
and key statistical surveys -new
component
5. Programcoordination                        2.0               0.6         2.6
               Total costs                37.67**               4.0        41.67

                                             20




                      Annex 3: RevisedAllocation of Credit proceeds

The revised allocation of Credit proceeds, the allocation o f Credit proceeds for the additional
financing andthe revised financial summary are shown below:


           Table 2: RevisedAllocationof CreditProceeds(without additionalfinancing)

ExpenditureCategory             CurrentAmount*                RevisedAllocation of Credit
                                                                        Proceeds
                            I    US$      1Financing   I   US$ million     I      Financing      I
                               million     Percentage                           Percentage
Works                            2.54        100%               2.78                100%
Goods                            5.07        100%               5.98                100%
          ~




Consultants' Services and       13.19        100%               14.22               100%
Audits
Training                         6.11        100%               7.70                100%
OperatingCosts**                 1.51         85%                1.30               85%
Refunding o f Project            1.58          d a              0.69
PreparationAdvance*   **
TotalProjectCosts                30.0                         32.67****




             1Table 3:Allocation of Credit Proceedsfor AdditionalFinancing

              Expenditure Category                             Amount
                                                 I US$million      I   Financing      1
                                                                                 ~
                                                                       Percentage
              Works                                     0.1              100%
              Goods                                     0.5              100%
              Consultants' Services andAudits           2.5              100%
              Training                                  1.6              100%
              Operating Costs*                          0.3               85%
              TotalProjectCosts                         5.0

                                                     21



                                Table 4: Revised Financial Summary

                                     FY04to        FY07       N O 8      FY09      F Y l O   TOTAL
                                      N O 6

  Investment Costs                     12.3         7.3          7.2      6.7       0.57      34.07
  Recurrent Costs                       1.2         0.6          0.8      0.8       0.2         3.6
                         Total         13.5         7.9          8.0      7.5       0.77      37.67"
  Financing Sources
  (YOof Total)
  IDA**                                91%          92%        89%        87%      67%           -
  Government of                        9yo          8%         11%        13%      33%           -
  Madagascar
                          Total       100%         100%       100%       100%      100%          -
* Deviation
**         from the initial Credit amount due to exchange rate fluctuationbetweenSDR and USD
   All expenditure categories are fimded 100%except for operating costs (program management) which are
funded 85% ofthe amount.

                                                  22



                  Annex 4: Revised Results Framework(Expected Outcomes)

The revised Project Design Summary (Project Results Framework and Results Monitoring
Matrix) are summarized below. The results framework has been entirely revamped to
improve the results focus o f the project based on discussions with Government inthe context
o f a workshop organized inJanuary 2007.

        ProjectDevelopment                  OutcomeIndicators                         Use of results
              Objective:

  DO.                                                                       Information will be usedto
   To improve the efficiency    1.NumberofIndicators underthe               assess performance o f services,
   and transparency o f            Public Expenditure and Financial         to target non-compliant services
   government and public           Accountability Assessment (PEFA)         and to improve overall service
   services inMadagascar in        rated `B' and above.                     delivery approach.
   line with the Madagascar     2. Percentage o fpopulationreporting
   Action Plan (MAP).              improvement inservice delivery
                                   (access and quality) for selected
                                   prioritized public services.
                                3. Ranking o fMadagascar inthe
                                   annual Transparency International
                                   Anti-Corruption Perception Index.
        Intermediate Results    ResultsIndicators for EachComponent                   Use of Results
           per Component

  Zomponent I:Reform of the
  mblic finance system

  . . Budget preparation and     la. Number o f PEFA budget preparation     Information will be usedto
      execution improved             and execution indicators (indicators   guide the implementation o f the
  !. Internaland external            1 through 17) rated `B' and above.     Government's public finance
      control mechanisms         lb. Number o fpublic institutions          reforms and to determine
      strengthened.                  executing their annual budgets         technical assistance and
  I. Public procurement system       through the integrated financial       capacity building needs.
      operates inline with           management system (SIGFP).
      international standards   2. Number o f PEFA indicators
  I. Revenueagencies               measuring the internallexternal control
      (customs, tax                mechanisms and budget reporting
      administration)              rated `B' and above.
      strengthened.             3. Percentage o freviewed procurement
  i. Public financial              processes inselected public
      management and               institutions that are assessedas
      procurement inselected       conforming to the new procurement
      public institutions          regulations.
      strengthened.             4. Reductiono f the percentage
                                   difference between planned and actual
                                   revues generated by revenue agencies
                                 5. Number o f sector ministries with
                                   budget execution rates o f 90 percent
                                   and above.

                                                                  23



        IntermediateResults                  Results Indicatorsfor EachComponent                                    Use of Results
           per Component

 Component 11: Capacity
 building andpublic sector
 servicedelivery

 6.   Change management                      6. Percentage of sector ministries that                      Information will be used to
      capacity and leadership                  meet the targets o f their annual work                     refine the implementation o f
      quality improved.                        plans.                                                     the MAP andto assess
 7. Management capacity in                   7. Number o f qualified staff inselected                     efficiency o freform
      selected public institutions             public institutions inthe areas o f                        management.
      strengthened.                             development planning, public financial
 8.   Service delivery processes                management, procurement, and
      inselected public sector                  monitoring & evaluation.
      institutions improved.                 8a. Number o f successfully completed
 9. Local training institutions                   RapidResults Initiatives.
      (NLIM,ENAM,CNFA,                       8b. Increase inpercentage o f user who
      ENMG)strengthened.                          are satisfied with the delivery o f
 10. GlobalDevelopment                            selected public services.
      Learning Center                        9.   Increasednumber o f students
      established.                                 completing training courses at
                                                   NLIM,ENAM, CNFA, ENMG.
                                             10. Number o f qualified trainers inlocal
                                                   training institutions inthe areas o f
                                                   development planning, public
                                                   financial management, procurement,
                                                   and monitoring & evaluation.

 Component 111: Ruleof Law
 and fight againstcorruption

 11. Quality of legal and                     1la. Number of courts that operate in                        Information will be usedto
      judicial services in                         line with agreed service standards3                     refine the implementation o f
      selected areas improved.                1lb Improvedrating o f Madagascar                            the reforms and to assess
 12. Regulatory and                                under the W B I Rule o f Law                            efficiency o freform
      institutional framework for                  indicator.                                              management.
      the fight against corruption            12. Reductiono f the proportion o f
      developed.                                   average expenditure paid by
 13, Implication o f civil society                 household for briberyfor public
      inState affairs                              services.
      strengthened.                           13. Number o f citizens scorecard
 14. Finance commissions o f                       exercises completed.
      Parliament (National                    14. Numbero f staff attached to both
      Assembly and Senate)                         commissions with knowledge about
       strengthened.                               public finance.




 Service standards include the average time required to process a case at the level of the lower courts, or the number of cases assigned to
and decided by a magistrate

                                                  24



     Intermediate Results       Results Indicators for Each Component                Use of Results
         per Component

Component IV: Monitoring
& evaluation of the MAPand
key statistical surveys

15. Procedural and              15a. Annual budget i s inline with M A P
    institutional framework for     priorities.                             Information will be usedto
    the implementationofthe     15b. Number o f sector ministries that      refine the implementationof
    MAP strengthened.               have developed annual, fully costed     the M A P and to refine the
16. Preparatory work for the        M A P implementation plans that are     development strategy for
    Population Census 200819        integrated into the annual budget       Madagascar.
    launched.                   16. Number o f cartographic surveys
                                     completed.


Component V: Program
Coordination

17. Reformprogram timely        17a. Annual progress reports o f            Information will be usedto
    and effectively                  satisfactory quality and submitted on  identifyprogram delays and
    implemented.                     time.                                  bottlenecks, and to adjust
                                 17b. Percentage o f output inthe annual    program implementation
                                     work plan that are completed as        strategy.
                                     initially planned.

 ;r
.L
cL
$
 b
 E
.r
 b

.r
cC
:E



cU
Li
 r


Er




       I    c-"

VI




v,




m                 m




            s
0    s
      VI    00    0
            00

                -0
                5
   2            5.
   a       4E   96




   s2+                +   +


    s                 2
                      s  s
     E3
     +     0
           00         +  2+


     s
     2                s  2
                         s
     +     0
           d.         v)
                      +   +




s
0
m

                         EP
                         2
                         v)



                         &J
                        ae


                                 m
                  .-*
                  S
                  0



       -         za
                   0
       cd  zaS    3a
       $   4      4S




 I
00
c\l    \o   m
            m            m
 I




       r 4  M
            m




            n
            0
            m
            0     s
       0    8     v!     0
                  m




                            f

     I




I

                                                 30


                           Annex 5: ImplementationArrangements

                                 I.OrganizationandOversight

Leadership and coordination. To strengthen coordination of governance related activities
the Government created in November 2005 the Reform Program for the Efficiency of the
Administration (Programmede Re'formes pour 1'Efjcacite' de 1'Administration,PREA) which
i s the key instrument to monitor and implement the Government's Good Governance
Program. The PREA i s headed by a National Coordinator (Coordonnateur Ge'ne'ral - CG)
who reports to the Secretary o f Planning (Se'cretaire Ci la Planzjkation de la Pre'sidence) in
the President's Office who is at the same time the Chief o f Staff. Political guidance and
oversight i s provided by the Oversight Committee (Conseil d 'Orientation et de Suivi - COS)
consisting o f all Permanent Secretaries o f the Government and o f representatives from civil
society, from the private sector, from the regions and communes, and from the donor
community. The Oversight Committee which i s led by the Chief o f Staff meets once a year
and approves the annual work plan for the project. Key policy decisions are submitted by the
Oversight Committee to the Council o fMinisters.

Implementing entities. Implementation arrangements will remain unchanged: the project
will continue to be implementedby the Office of the President under the authority of the
National Coordinator P E A who reports to the Chief o f Staff. The National Coordinator i s
supported by the Project Bureau (Bureau de Gestion, BdG) which will continue to ensure the
day-to-day management o f the project. The BdGhas a number o f technical staff inthe areas
o f monitoring & evaluation, procurement, financial management and communication. This
unit is responsible for: (a) procurement, including all contracting of works, goods and
services; (b) project monitoring, reporting and evaluation; (c) the contractual relationship
with IDA, and (d) financial record keeping, in particular the designated Account and
disbursements. The BdG operates on the basis o f an annual work plan which i s validated by
the above mentioned Oversight Committee. A Standing Committee (Comite' Restreint - CR)
i s available to advise the BdG on implementation issues. This Committee consists of the
Cabinet Secretary, and the Permanent Secretaries o f the Ministries o f Finance and Budget,
Planning,     Civil Service, Justice, Decentralization,       Territorial Administration, and
Communication. It i s led by the Chief o f Staff in the President's Office and meets at least
once every three months.

Implementationo f the reforms i s ensuredby implementation teams that have been created at
the level o f the sector ministries that receive support from the project. A key role o f the BdG
i s to support these implementation teams and to facilitate their work. The teams operate on
the basis ofthe annual work plan. They report to the BdGon aregular basis.

The BdG has implemented the existing project in a satisfactory manner; it has met all
relevant    disbursement,    procurement      and fiduciary obligations.       The successful
implementation of the project activities i s mainly based on the efficient work o f the BdG
whose performance has been evaluated on a regular basis.

                                               31


                      11. FinancialManagement and Disbursement

Financial management arrangements: In accordance with Bank policy and procedures,
the financial management arrangements of the PGDI (Governance and Institutional
Development Project) responsible for the implementation of all components/activities
eligible under the additional financing has been reviewed on March 6, 2007 to determine
whether they are acceptable to the Bank. This review is an update since the Financial
Management (FM) system o f this entity has already been assessed in the context o f the
ongoing project. The review report i s part o f the project files. The overall conclusion o f this
review determined that the PGDI continues to maintain an adequate financial management
system in line with the requirements of the OP/BP 10.02. The financial management risk i s
assessedas beingmoderate.

The project financial management is strengthened bythe following salient features:

    Existence o f qualified and skilled accounting staff very knowledgeable with Bank
    procedures;
    Adequate internal control system including suitable authorizationprocedures, appropriate
    segregation o f duties and responsibilities, reliable budgeting system, and adequate
    measures for safeguarding assets;
    Use o f an accounting system in compliance with generally accounting standards and
    IDArequirements, andproviding reliable andtimely information;
    Appropriate documentation o f the policies and procedures applied by the project,
    coveringmanagement o f finances, accounting, procurement and financial reporting;
    Use o f an integrated computerized system facilitating the management o f project
    operations and capable o f producing in a timely manner all relevant informationrequired
    for managing and monitoring project activities, and appraising project's overall progress
    towards the achievement o f its objectives.

However, to further improve the system the update o f the PGDI Chart o f accounts will be
requiredto reflect new components/activities to be supported under the additional financing
and satisfy reporting requirements.The preparation o f this new Chart i s presently underway.
The form and content o f quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be determined
as part o f project appraisal and be agreed at negotiations. Models o f these reports will be
presented inthe annex o f the project accounting manual o fprocedures.

The project financial statements will be audited annually by an international accounting firm
acceptable to IDA, in accordance with International Standards o f Auditing. For this purpose,
the contract with the current external auditors will be amended inorder to include the audit of
the supplemental financing. The new contract should be submitted to IDA prior to credit
effectiveness. The terms of reference o f the audit has already been reviewedby the financial
management specialist o f the Bank/IDA to ensure the adequacy o f the audit scope. The
auditors will be required to: (i) express an opinion on the project financial statements; (ii)
carry out a comprehensive review o f the internal control procedures and provide a
management report outlining any recommendations for their improvement. The audit reports
will be submittedto IDA not later than six months after the endo f each fiscal year.

                                              32



Flow of funds and Disbursement arrangements:                 Transaction-based disbursement
procedures would continue to be followed throughout the implementation period of the
project. The BdGwould also continue to prepare FMRto track expenditures for the project.

The Country Financing Parameters for the Recipient country approved by the Association on
M a y 16, 2005 allow for a 100 percent disbursement o f all Eligible Expenditures disbursed as
from the date o f effectiveness o f the amendment. The disbursement percentage for the
recurrent operating costs will remain at 85 percent.

Disbursement mechanisms: While disbursing proceeds from the supplemental credit
account, IDA may: (i)    reimburse the borrower for expenditures paid from the borrower's
resources; (ii) advance credit proceeds into a designated account opened in a commercial
bank acceptable to IDA; (iii)   make a direct payment to a third party; (iv) 'enter into special
commitments in writing to pay amounts to a third party in respect o f expenditures to be
financed out o f the credit proceeds, upon the borrower's request and under terms and
conditions agreed the Bank and the borrower. The accounting manual o f procedures
describes in details the steps and requirements for requesting a reimbursement, a direct
payment to a thirdparty, and applying for a special commitment

IDA establishes a minimum value for applications for reimbursement, direct payment, and
special commitment. The minimum value will be documented in the disbursement letter
related to the additional financing.

Bankingarrangementsfor the additionalfinancing:To ensure timely and reliable flow o f
funds, the Bureau de Gestion (BdG) of the PGDIwill manage a designated account for the
additional financing opened in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. Denominated in US$,
disbursements from the IDA credit will be deposited on this account to finance project
activities. The authorized allocation for the designated account covering IDA's contribution
would be US$0.8 million covering IDA's share o f four (4) months o f estimated expenditures.
The initial deposit will be limited to US$0.8 million. The BdG would be responsible for
preparing disbursement requests. The designated Account would finance all project eligible
expenditures inferior to 20% o f the authorized allocation, and replenishment applications
would be submitted at least on a monthly basis. Further deposits by IDA into the designated
account would be made against withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documents.
All supporting documents will be retained by the BdG and made available for review by
periodic Bank supervision missions and external auditors.

Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs): Disbursements will be made against Statement o f
Expenses (SOEs) for contracts and goods not requiring the Bank's prior review. Therefore
disbursements for all contracts for: Civil works o f less than US$500,000; Goods o f less than
US$250,000; Consulting services, training by firms and individuals o f less than US$lOO,OOO
and US$50,000 respectively; and all incremental operating expenses would be made on the
basis o f SOEs and certified by the BdG. SOE statements will be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.

                                              33



                                      111. Procurement

Procurement Arrangements. The BdG will continue to carry out all project related
procurement activities. Procurement for the project would be carried out in accordance with
the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May
2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated inthe Legal Agreement.

The general description o f the various items under different expenditure categories i s
included in general below. For each contract to be financed by the Credit, the different
procurement methods or consultant selection methods, estimated costs, prior review
requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank in the
Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as requiredto
reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity
and should cover the activities for at least the following 18 months. The procurement
activities to be carried out under the restructured project and under the additional financing
are described inthe following paragraphs.

Procurement procedures for goods and services. Goods of similar nature, to the extent
possible, should be grouped in much larger packages to enable wider competition. All
Procurement for goods and services will follow IDA Procurement Guidelines. Consultancy
services will be procured in accordance with IDA Consultants Selection Guidelines. The
Operations Manual will provide, in addition to the guidelines, guidance to the BdG to
conduct procurement.

Procurement of Works. Works procuredunder this project would include rehabilitation o f
offices, construction o f new facilities and other construction activities under the public
finance, the capacity building and the monitoring & evaluation components.                The
procurement will be done using Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for all ICB and
National or agreed SBD as outlined in the Program Procurement Manual and which are
consistent with IDA guidelines.

Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under this project would include information
technology systems and related goods, vehicles, furniture and various office equipment. The
procurement will be done using the Bank's SBD for all ICB and National or agreed SBD as
outlined inthe Program Procurement Manual and which are consistent with IDA guidelines.

Procurement of non-consultingservices. Procurement of non-consulting services will be
procured usingacceptable SBD consistent with IDA guidelines.

Selection of Consultants. Consultancy services required for the project would cover
consultancies to: (i) support the implementation o f public finance reforms, (ii) support the
ongoing implementation o f the procurement reform; (iii)support the initiation o f revenue
agency reform; (iv) continue to support the leadership development and capacity building
programs; (v) strengthen local training institutions including the National Leadership

                                               34


Institute of Madagascar; (vi) support the implementationo f legal andjudicial reforms as well
as the strengthening o f the Rule o f Law; (vii) support the implementation activities for key
statistical surveys; (viii) design, draft bidding documents and supervision o f civil works
under the project; (ix) provide complementary quality assurance to the various reform
activities, and (x) establish a monitoring and evaluation system for the project and for the
Madagascar Action Plan.

All consulting service contracts costing more than US$lOO,OOO equivalent for firms will be
awarded through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method. Contracts for
specialized assignments estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent may be
contracted through Consultants' Qualification (CQ).

Single Source Selection (SSS) maybe employed with prior approval o f the Bank and will be
inaccordance with paragraphs3.9 to 3.12 ofthe Consultant Guidelines.

All services of individual consultants (IC) will be procured under individual contracts in
accordancewith the provisions o fparagraphs 5.1 to 5.4 o f the Guidelines.

Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per
contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the provisions
o fparagraph 2.7 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.

Training. This category would cover all costs related to the carrying out of training and
workshops for the different components o f the project, in particular the public finance and
the capacity building components. This would include i.e. hiring of venues and related
expenses, stationery as well as per diem and travel costs o f participants. Training programs
would be part o f the Project's Annual Work Plan and Budget and will be included in the
procurement plan. Prior review o f all activities will be required, only an annual basis,
including proposed budget, agenda, participants, location of training and other relevant
details.

Operating Costs. Operating costs shall consist of some staff salary costs, office supplies,
operation and maintenance costs for vehicles and equipment, travel expenses and subsistence
expenditures, among others. Operating costs to be financed by the Program would be
procured using the implementing agencies administrative procedures which are found to be
acceptable.

The procurement procedures and Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs) to be used for each
procurement method, as well as model contracts for works and goods procured, are presented
inthe ProgramProcurement Manualandthey are consistent with IDAguidelines.

                                               35


             Table 5: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethods and Prior Review
                         Contract Value
 ExpenditureCategory       Threshold         ProcurementMethod    Contracts Subject to PriorReview

                             (US$)                                             (US$)

  1.Works              >500,000             ICB                  All
                       <500,000             NCB                  All Above US$200,000
                       <50,000              Shopping             None
 2. Goods              >200,000             ICB                  All
                       50,000-200,000       NCB                  None
                       <50,000              Shopping             None
                                            DC                   All
 2. Services
    Firms              >100,000             QCBS                 All Above US$lOO,OOO
                       <100,000             QCBS andCQ           First contract
  IndividualCons.      >50,000              IC                   All
                       <50,000              IC                   None

I                     I                   I                     I                                  I


Details about the procurement arrangements can be found inthe project files

Assessment of the Procurement Capacity. The BdGhas one full time procurement officer
and one full time procurement assistant. A second full-time officer will be recruited shortly.
The procurement officer is fully dedicated to the management of procurement activities
funded by the Grant and possesses a vast experience in handling Bank financed as well as
Donor funded projects. Overall, the capacity o f the BdG and the quality o f the procurement
staff i s deemed sufficient to continue to implement the restructured project and the additional
financing. The Government will submit to the World Bank an updated manual reflecting the
changes inthe implementationarrangements with the integration o f BdGinto PREA.

(Revised) Procurement Plan. The Borrower developed a procurement plan for project
implementation which provides the basis for the procurement methods. A revised
procurement plan for the restructured project and the procurement plan for the additional
financing have been agreed to between the Government and the Project Team on March 8,
2007; they are available at the BdG in Antananarivo, Madagascar. They will also be
available inthe project's database and inthe Bank's external website. The Procurement Plans
will beupdated annually or as requiredto reflect the actual project implementationneeds and
improvements ininstitutionalcapacity.

Frequency of Procurement Supervision. Inaddition to the prior review supervision to be
carried out from Bank offices, the capacity assessment o f the Implementing Agency has
recommended semi-annual supervision missions to visit the field to carry out post review o f
procurement actions.


