Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16504
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2814-PAK)
APRIL 1997
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(June, 1996)
Currency Unit                   Rupee (Rs.)
Rs. 1.00           =             US$0.0286
US$ 1.00           =            Rs. 34.968
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AASHTO       =     American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials
C&WD         =     Communications and Works Department
DITS         =     Driver Instructor Training School
ERR          =     Economic Rate of Return
FBP          =     Fourth Highway Project
FIDIC        =     Federation Internationale Des Ingenieurs-Conseils
GOP          =     Government of Pakistan
ICR          =     Implementation Completion Report
MBRP         =     Maintenance Backlog Reduction Program
MIL          =     Maintenance Intervention Level
MOC                Ministry of Communications
MOF          =     Ministry of Finance
MVT                Motor Vehicle Tax
NHA                National Highway Authority
NIB          =     National Highway Board
NTRC         =     National Transport Research Center
PEU          =     Pavement Evaluation Unit
PMC          =     Project Management Cell
PMS          =     Pavement Management System
RSP          =     Resurfacing and Strengthening Project
THP                Third Highway Project
TRL                Transport and Research laboratory
VOC          =     Vehicle Operating Cost
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Director:         Fakhruddin Ahmed (Acting)
Division Chief:    Marie Robinson
Staff Member:     John Tillman (Sr. Economist)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Ln.28 14-PAK)
PREFACE ............................................. 1
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..............................................................2
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...............................6
A.    Statement/Evaluation of Objectives                           7
B.  Achievement of Objectives                    .8
C.  Project Sustainability .15
D. Bank Performance .16
E.  Borrower Performance                      .17
F.  Assessment of Outcome .19
G. Future Operations .20
H. Key Lessons Learned .21
I.    Evaluation of Program Objective Categories .22
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1             Summary of Assessment
Table 2             Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3             Project Timetable
Table 4             Loan Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
Table 5             Key Indicators of Project Implementation
Table 6             Key Indicators of Project Operation
Table 7             Studies Included in Project
Table 8A            Project Costs
Table 8B            Project Financing
Table 9             Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10            Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11            Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12            Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13            Bank Resources: Missions
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



APPENDICES
A.   Mission' s Aide-Memoire (with Operation Plan)
P.   Borrower's Evaluation
MAP



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LN.28 14-PAK)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fourth Highway Project in
Pakistan, for which Ln.2814-PAK in the amount of US$ 152 million was approved on
September 10, 1987 and made effective on November 16, 1987.
2.    The loan was closed on December 31, 1995, after a one year extension. It was fully
disbursed, and the last disbursement took place in May, 1996.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Hasan Masood, Consultant, under the supervision of
Navaid A. Qureshi, Projects Advisor, SA1PK; and reviewed by Marie Robinson, Chief,
SAIIN; and John Tillman, Sr. Economist; and Antonio J. Cittati, Sr. Highway Engineer,
SAlIN. The borrower has prepared its own evaluation report on the project, which is included
as an appendix to the ICR.
4.    Preparation of this ICR was initiated during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in October 1995. It is based on material on the project file, periodic management
reports prepared by the borrower and several technical and end-of-assignment reports prepared
by the consultants who worked on this project. The Borrower contributed to preparation of
the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project implementation, and reviewing the draft
ICR.






2
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LN.28 14-PAK)
PAKISTAN
Evaluation Summary
Introduction and Project Objectives
1.    The principal objectives of the project were to: (a) lower transport costs on the
Karachi - Peshawar N-5 Highway by road rehabilitation; (b) develop the capacity of NHB
(now NHA) to plan and manage highway maintenance and operation, and to introduce modern
technical and financial management practices; (c) improve traffic safety on National Highways;
(d) develop the capacity of Pakistani contractors to execute maintenance and rehabilitation
works using modem techniques, equipment and materials; and (e) continue to mobilize
revenues from road users for the maintenance of the National Highways.
2.    These objectives were to be achieved through: (i) rehabilitation of about 650 km of the
N-5 Highway and associated bridges; (ii) improvements to maintenance and traffic engineering
on National Highway; (iii) establishment of a pilot-scale highway patrol; (iv) expansion of the
national driver instructor training school; (v) institutional improvements in Balochistan C&W
Department; (vi) studies for future highway and road transportation projects; and (vii) training
and technical assistance.
3.    Most of the project components were reasonably well linked to the project objectives,
relevant to the country's needs and consistent with the Bank's strategy in the transport sector.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The physical objectives of the project were substantially achieved. The project was
completed within one year of the original target and the entire loan was fully disbursed.
Various sections of N-5 totaling 504 km were improved or dualized resulting in significant
savings in the vehicle operating costs. The project has a economic rate of return of 30.5%.
The institutional objectives in terms of improved management and technical and financial
reforms were largely met. NHA is presently managing a major program of large highway
construction and improvement contracts; has acquired technical expertise in modern
construction materials and methods; and is in the process of adopting streamlined
administrative policies and procedures, contract administration and financial management
practices. A seven year highway maintenance and implementation program was successfully
carried out by NHA primarily under the supervision of expatriate consultants. The program
was gradually handed over to the NHA staff towards the end of the project. This component
evolved from something small into a major achievement with lasting institutional impact and
spawned the Transport Sector Project. With the establishment of a separate maintenance
structure as a result of the project, highway maintenance activities have assumed an important



3
role within NHA. In addition, the creation of a traffic engineering unit to complement the
maintenance functions provided NHA in-house capacity to address traffic safety issues. The
Highway Patrol and Driver Instructor School components could not be implemented.
However, traffic safety was improved through a program of road signing, line marking, median
barrier construction and "black-spot" removal on the N-5. The project provided highly
significant benefits to the local construction industry, and a large number of Pakistani
contractors are now capable of undertaking highway improvement and maintenance programs.
Fuel taxes as well as other road user levies were periodically raised during the project
implementation period. A 1993 study estimated that total road user revenues grew from Rs
16.8 billion in 1989-90 to Rs 24.2 billion in 1992-93.
5.    The N-5 improvement contracts experienced significant completion delays and cost
overruns. The major causes included inadequate contractor prequalification, incomplete
engineering designs (e.g. median drainage works overlooked at bid stage, rehabilitation
contracts bid without detailed designs or construction drawings being available, etc.), lack of
timely completion of pre-construction activities (like land acquisition, utilities relocation etc.),
inadequate delegation of authority to the supervisory consultants, revision of highway
improvement priorities, inadequate initial pavement design, political interference and
unwillingness of the Employer to exercise contractual remedies against non-performing
contractors. The generic problem of inadequate counterpart funding continued to affect the
highway improvement and more particularly the maintenance program throughout the project.
Although the project did achieve significant annual increases in maintenance allocations from
the recurrent budget in the early years, aggregate allocations dropped from about 50% of the
network's maintenance needs to less than 33% by the end of the project. The pilot highway
patrol and driver instructor training school subcomponents for traffic safety could not be
implemented due to personality conflicts between Head of NTRC and senior Punjab Police
officials and the lack of certain high level policy decisions on part of the GOP during
implementation. However, funds for these activities were used to provide traffic safety
measures and remove black spots on sections of the N-5.
6.    One of the major institutional improvements achieved under the project related to
highway maintenance. Initiated with the assistance of expatriate technical assistance, the
highway maintenance organization has come into its own and is now recognized as an
important part of NHA. However, changes in its staffing and structure and somewhat
unplanned and premature decentralization of its operations to the regions in the early years
after reorganization affected its performance, which also remains susceptible to external factors
such as lack of maintenance funding. NHA management is currently reviewing the
effectiveness of its maintenance operations and putting in place improved institutional checks
and controls.
7.    The Bank's role during identification was quite effective, focusing on provision of the
policy framework necessary for development of the maintenance program, GOP's commitment
to fund it, mobilization of road user revenues, and maintaining a balance between rehabilitation
and new construction. However, the project covenants lacked specific linkage between
continued mobilization of road user charges and adequate funding of highway maintenance. A



4
comprehensive staff appraisal report served as a useful reference throughout implementation.
Bank supervision during implementation was intense and involved and played a key role in
successful completion of the project. Bank staff provided useful guidance to NHA on key
issues relating to procurement of construction contracts, pavement failures and road side
drainage, ensuring adequate budgetary resources, and even appointment of key staff. When
GOP launched major highway projects that had a questionable feasibility or which affected the
economic viability of ongoing project works, the Bank provided timely advice that helped GOP
in reviewing its decisions and prevented over commitment of its limited resources. The overall
performance of the Bank was satisfactory.
8.    The borrower's performance during identification and preparation were generally
satisfactory. During implementation, NHA's performance was mixed partly due to its
preoccupation with the major GOP highway expansion program initiated during 1991-93. The
role of the FHP Project Management Cell (PMC), assisted by expatriate consultants, was
crucial in keeping the project on track. NHA's performance on the maintenance
implementation program was handicapped by the limited financial allocations provided by the
GOP which remained short of the network's requirements. The planned transformation from
the "yardstick" based highway maintenance works previously carried out through the
provincial C&WD to the NHA managed contract maintenance was done smoothly. NHA staff
gradually took over management and operation of the highway maintenance program from the
expatriate consultants by the end of their assignment in 1993. NHA's performance was
satisfactory in terms of compliance with the project covenants.
9.    The principal objectives of the project were largely achieved. Improvements along the
N-5 highway lowered transportation costs and contributed towards increased traffic safety.
Institutional improvements were successfully implemented within NIA to plan and manage
highway maintenance and operations through the introduction of modern technical and
financial management practices. The construction industry received a powerful impetus as a
result of the project. The level of revenues mobilized from road users was periodically
increased, accompanied by a nominal growth of 14% per year in NHA maintenance
expenditures over the project period. The overall assessment of the project can be rated as
satisfactory.
Summary of Findings. Future Operations. and Key Lessons Learned
10.   The operation plan for all road sections and associated structures improved/constructed
under the project relies on existing institutional arrangement within NHA for maintenance
which are considered adequate subject to sufficient funding of the annual maintenance
program. After some initial delays, NHA has taken over the completed road sections for
maintenance.
11.   The following key lessons should be considered for future projects in the transport
sector in Pakistan:



5
a)    Project design should be kept simple, with manageable components that can be
handled through a single or a few agencies. Flexibility in implementation is desirable,
particularly for later years to allow for adjustments and improvements.
b)    Project preparation needs to be improved to minimize costly variations during
implementation. There is a need to develop cost effective pavement designs which are
appropriate for Pakistani conditions.
c)    Prequalification procedures need to be improved in line with the Bank's current
standard prequalification documents and rigorously implemented, to avoid awarding contracts
to firms lacking capacity. Contract adm.nistration should be streamlined and simplified.
Provision of dispute resolution boards should be included to minimize delays associated with
contractual disputes. Pre-construction activities for which the employer is responsible should
be completed before contract award.
d)    Highway sector investments should be carefully prioritized to ensure timely availability
of counterpart funds.
e)    Alternative off-budget highway maintenance arrangements are needed to provide an
adequate and reliable source of highway maintenance funding.
f)    Vehicle overloading must be effectively addressed to sustain highway network
improvements
g)    The use of local/in-country expertise should be maximized to reduce reliance on costly
long-term expatriate input over extended periods..



6
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LN.2814-PAK)
PART I - Project Implementation Assessment
Project Identity
Name:       FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Credit:     LN. 2814-PAK
RVP Unit:   South Asia
Country:    Pakistan
Sector:     Infrastructure
Sub-Sector:  Transportation
Background
1.    The improvement and modernization of key transport systems remain a critical factor in
the economic development of Pakistan. The country's agricultural, industrial and commercial
growth and export competitiveness are acutely affected by an inadequate and outmoded
infrastructure that increases transport cost by up to 50%. Although the railway can potentially
provide an economic and efficient means of transportation for long distance freight traffic, over
the last two decades it has lost a significant part of its modal share to roads - primarily due to
lack of institutional autonomy and commercially oriented management. Road transport has
emerged as the dominant mode of transport carrying about 85% of the inland passenger and
freight traffic.
2.    The National Highway Authority (previously National Highway Board) is responsible
for the 6,600 km long National Highways System. The 1,760 km N-5 highway along the
Karachi-Lahore-Peshawar corridor represents the main artery of the NHA network and carries
over 55% of the inter-city traffic in the country.
3.    This project was the fourth in a series of highway projects financed by the World Bank
since 1964. The First Highway Project (Cr. 54-PAK: US$ 17 million) involved construction of
142 km of highway between Karachi and Hyderabad. The project which was implemented
during 1964 - 68 introduced the design and construction of modern highways to Pakistan. The
Second Highway Project (Ln. 578-PAK: US$ 35 million) envisioning the construction of 270
km of highways was approved shortly thereafter, but was canceled in 1971 at GOP's request,
due to very high bids. It was not until the start of the Third Highway Project (Cr. 974-PAK:
US$ 50 million) in 1980, involving rehabilitation and construction of 296 km of highways, that
major highway construction was revived. The twelve year gap between the First and the Third
Highway Projects had a significant adverse impact on the road construction in Pakistan, as the



7
impetus given to the development of the local construction industry through the First Highway
Project was lost.
4.    The THP marked the beginning of sizable highway projects in the country. THP was
based on extensive feasibility studies and served as a stimulus for introducing modern
construction methods to local contractors. Problems associated with poor contract preparation
and management, and lack of experience in the use of modern construction equipment were
faced and overcome, and the first steps taken towards the adoption of modern highway
construction techniques.
Table A: Bank Assisted Highway Improvement Projects in Pakistan
PROJECT          IHP*              2HP              3HP               4HP
LOAN / CREDIT
AMOUNT           US$ 17 Million    US$ 35 Million   US$ 50 Million    US$ 152 Million
Road
Improvements:
Rehabilitation                      -              296 km           149 km
New             143 km           270 km              -              355 km
Construction
Total: 143 km           270 km           296 km            504 km
* IHP = First Highway Project
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
5.    The principal objectives of the FBP were to: (a) lower transport costs on the Karachi -
Peshawar N-5 Highway by road rehabilitation; (b) develop the capacity of NHB (now NHA) to
plan and manage highway maintenance and operation, and to introduce modern technical and
financial management practices; (c) improve traffic safety on National Highways; (d) develop
the capacity of Pakistani contractors to execute maintenance and rehabilitation works using
modern techniques, equipment and materials; and (e) continue to mobilize revenues from road
users for the maintenance of the National Highways.
6.    The above objectives were to be pursued through: (i) rehabilitation of about 650 km of
the N-5 Highway and associated bridges; (ii) improvements to maintenance and traffic
engineering on National Highway; (iii) establishment of a pilot-scale highway patrol; (iv)
expansion of the national driver instructor training school; (v) institutional improvements in
Balochistan C&W Department; (vi) studies for future highway and road transportation
projects; and (vii) training and technical assistance.
7.    The project components were reasonably well linked to the project objectives; except
for component (v). Although not addressing any of the project objectives, this component was
apparently included to provide Balochistan some technical assistance, to partly offset the
adverse impact caused by NHB taking over maintenance of the highways under the project.
The Balochistan C&WD at the time had a large number of field staff responsible for force-
account maintenance of it highways who risked being rendered surplus by this move.



8
8.    Objectives (a), (b) and (e) were most relevant to the country's needs and consistent
with the Bank's strategy in the transport sector. Carrying over 55% of the country's inter-city
traffic, rehabilitation and capacity improvements in N-5 was bound to result in significant
savings in the vehicle operating costs and thereby lowering the transportation costs. Objective
(b) recognized the need to protect the country's major investments in the national highways
through establishment of a planned maintenance program, and the strengthening of the agency
to sustain this effort.
9.    Objective (c) was important as Pakistan suffered from a poor highway safety record,
and the proposed road improvements were expected to increase travel speeds and the
consequent accident risks, if proper traffic safety measures were not taken. Objective (d)
although desirable in itself was closely linked to the implementation of objective (a) and
continuation of the achievements under THP. Objective (e) was critical for the sustainability of
the physical assets created under the project.
B. Achievement of Obiectives
Lower Transport Cost on N-5
10.   One of the principal objectives of the project was lowering the vehicle operating cost
on N-5 through rehabilitation and improvements of 650 km of prioritized sections selected on
the basis of economic feasibility. This objective was substantially achieved as 504 km of N-5
was dualized or improved with lowering of the road roughness and resulting vehicle operating
costs.
Develop NHA Capacity - Modern Technical and Financial Management
11.   The project provided an excellent opportunity for NHA staft to work on a large
highway project. The technical, contractual and management challenges it offered helped staff
gain useful experience in highway construction and management. With constant assistance
from international project management consultants and under the guidance of Bank staff, NHA
personnel gradually learned to administer and supervise international contracts using FIDIC
conditions. The Project Management Cell (PMC) played a key role in ensuring the project's
continuity (particularly through periods of senior management changes within NHB/NHA),
with insuperable obstacles surmounted or side-stepped monthly. A comprehensive project
management system was established. Bidding and award procedures were streamlined and
contract documentation standardized. Detailed technical specifications and a composite
schedule of rates were developed. Procurement under Bank guidelines and ICB rules and
administering contracts being executed through seasoned expatriate contractors helped
improve construction management practices in the organization. The initial organizational
structure of the new National Highway Authority was also initially conceived and developed
under the FHP.



9
12.   Technical Numerous pavement related problems concerning: design; materials;
drainage; vehicle overloading; asphalt mix design; high ambient temperatures etc. were
encountered and successfully tackled, with assistance of international experts where necessary,
thereby providing a major learning experience for the NHA staff. As a result of the project,
NHA gained stature as a leading institution in the development and maintenance of highways in
Pakistan, and is now looked upon to provide guidance to provincial C&WDs and other road
development agencies of the country.
13.   Financial A Policies and Procedures manual, a Construction Administration manual
and an Accounting systems manual was developed by Consultants under the project which
included detailed financial management procedures. The policies and procedures manual was
updated in 1994 to address the need of NHA after reorganization. Internal audit controls were
established and technical assistance was provided to improve the accounting system. Although
the implementation of streamlined contract management procedures and financial management
reforms in NHA has been slow, trial adoption of the policies and procedures manual started in
February 1996, and the accounting assistance study financed under the follow-on TSP is
expected to introduce a computerized accounting system for the entire agency by FY96/97.
Develop NHA Capacity - Highway Maintenance
14.   A seven-year "Highway Maintenance Implementation Program" was carried out by
NHA during 1987-94 under the supervision of international maintenance consultants. The
program involved detailed assessment of the maintenance needs of the network through road
condition and pavement evaluation surveys to determine maintenance priorities. The
maintenance program was a structured and systematic Maintenance Intervention Level (MIL)
system based on the research carried out by the Transport Research Laboratory (TRL) of UK,
adjusted for local conditions. The MIL system and annual programs of "maintenance by
contract" were easily adopted by NHA and have worked successfully since 1990. The MIL
system was successfully used to identify priority sections for inclusion in the Resurfacing and
Strengthening Program (RSP) and Maintenance Backlog Reduction Program (MBRP) under
the follow-on Transport Sector Project (Ln.3241-PAK).
15.   The establishment of a Maintenance Directorate within NBB in late 1987 (which
changed to the Maintenance Wing after the creation of NHA in 1991) was the key to
institutionalizing maintenance in an organization that hitherto had focused only on the
development and expansion of the highway network. A Pavement Evaluation Unit (PEU) was
created to plan and execute annual road condition surveys under the MIL system. As
maintenance activities expanded following reorganization, a network of 16 field offices and
four regional offices were established manned by maintenance engineers responsible for
assessing pavement maintenance needs and carrying out contract maintenance works.
Responsibilities for maintenance management functions were gradually transferred from the
Consultants to NHA, by the end of the Consultants assignment in 1995.



10
Improve Traffic Safety
16.   Establishment of a traffic engineering unit in NHB in 1988, to complement the
maintenance management system marked an important step forward in terms of NHB's
capacity to address Traffic Safety issues. A manual on "Traffic Signs and Road Markings" was
developed and the highway improvement works were reviewed to provide junction
improvements, by-passes and some other traffic improvement measures in urban areas aimed at
relieving congestion and improving safety. The Highway Patrol and DITS subcomponents
could not be implemented. However, funds budgeted for these activities were used for
improving traffic safety and "black spot" removal on the N-5. The activities funded included
road signing, line marking, New Jersey type median barriers, fencing, junction improvements
and the channelization of commercial vehicles at major urban settlements.
17.   Another factor that helped in significantly improving traffic safety along the N-5 was
the separation of north and south bound traffic achieved as a result of dualization of over 350
km of highway under the project. This helped in reducing the incidence of fatal accidents -
particularly head-on collisions, which are a common occurrence on Pakistan's undivided
highways.
Develop Local Contractors' Capacity
18.   The FHP provided highly significant benefits for the local construction industry. While
the Pakistani construction industry generally gained from the FHP experience, two local
highway firms in particular emerged as major contractors. These firms have acquired large
fleets of equipment and skilled manpower, and are now competing internationally. However, it
was the smaller tiers of contractors that benefited most, through the opportunities created by
NHA's contract maintenance program. Routine maintenance works were carried out by local
district contractors, while the periodic maintenance contracts were awarded to suitably
qualified and equipped contractors. The contractors received on-the-job training in equipment
use and in various road maintenance functions through NHA's maintenance consultants. As
the maintenance program progressed, the number of contractors qualified to carry out these
works increased from about 250 in 1989 to nearly 1000 by end 1995. A number of contractors
have since graduated through the contract maintenance program and started competing for the
larger highway construction contracts. Some of the specialized contractors, particularly for
major bridge construction, also benefited by the opportunities provided under the project to
expand their operations and acquire modern equipment based technologies. As a result of the
project, NHA has developed a large roster of qualified Pakistani contractors in various tiers,
capable of undertaking significant sized highway maintenance and improvement programs.
Mobilize User Revenues for Maintenance
19.   Fuel taxes as well as other road user levies (MVT, registration and license fee and
tolls), were periodically raised during the project implementation period. The 1993 Haas



11
Study' estimated that total road user revenues grew from Rs 16.8 billion in 1989-90 to Rs 24.2
billion in 1992-93. The NHA Act (1991) empowered the authority to collect tolls on its
network, and tolls are now being collected on several bridges. However, the tolls which were
in effect before the Act on some highway sectors (e.g. Karachi-Hyderabad), continue to be
collected by the provincial governments.
20.   As a result of the increased institutional focus, and greater general awareness of the
importance of highway maintenance achieved through the project, NHB was able to obtain
increased annual maintenance allocations from MOF/GOP during the early years of the
project. Annual maintenance allocations to NHA increased by 210% (over 20% per year)
between 1987 and 1992). However, this increase could not be sustained during the subsequent
years and annual maintenance allocations dropped from about 50% to 33% of NHA's annual
demand by 1994-95. There was a nominal average growth of 14% per year in NHA
maintenance expenditures over the project period.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
21.   The revised ERR on completion of the project, using current vehicle operating costs
(VOC), value of time savings and NTRC's traffic count estimates, comes to 30.5% as
compared to 27% in the SAR. The difference is attributed to the higher benefits resulting from
a higher than anticipated growth in traffic, and increases in vehicle operating costs (as a result
of escalation in the prices of vehicles, spares and fuel). These have more than compensated for
the adverse impact of the increased project completion costs on the ERR.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Progress
N-5 Improvements Component
22.   Procurement Issues Inadequate contractor prequalification remained one of the
underlying causes of delay in completion of several contracts. The lack of objective evaluation
of the technical and financial capability of the contractors, particularly local contractors,
resulted for example in award of Contracts 7a and 7b to a local contractor without adequate
financial resources, despite adequate warning by the Bank. In the case of Contract 2, the
contract was awarded to the lowest bidder (an internationalUPakistani joint venture) although
the evaluation committee did not consider the joint venture qualified to perform. In both of
these cases significant delays and cost overruns were experienced before these contracts could
be completed. Inadequate sub-project preparation and design review prior to bid, led to
subsequent delays and claims on account of design changes and variation orders during
construction. For example, the overlay designs on the rehabilitation contracts (8b (I) and (ii))
encountered pavement failures and had to undergo substantial revisions following award,
which resulted in significant completion delays and major cost increases. Inadequate advance
planning by NHA was another factor affecting the contracts. A number of pre-construction
activities like land acquisition, relocation of utilities, removal of encroachments from the right
' Study of the Arterial Highway Network of Pakistan carried out by M/s Haas in 1993



12
of way, cutting of road side trees (requiring high level GOP approval) etc. were often carried
out after contract award, resulting in significant delays.
23.   Inadequate Counterpart Funding Although a detailed exercise was carried out at the
initial stages of the project to establish counterpart funding needs taking into account the GOP
capacity to meet their obligations, and agreements were reached with the Ministry of Finance
in this regard, timely availability of counterpart funding continued to be a problem throughout
the life of the project. One of the reasons was an ambitious highway development program
launched by the GOP during 1991-93 which included, besides other major projects, a six-lane
340 km long Motorway from Lahore to Islamabad. In certain instances, the lack of GOP funds
led to delay of award2 and eventually resulted in higher project completion costs. From
another perspective, the delays in award of major pavement rehabilitation contracts (8b(i) and
8b(ii)) resulted in further deterioration and led to complete reconstruction at an additional cost
nearly 50% over the average cost of round 2 contracts. Significant delays were also
encountered in payments to FHP contractors and consultants during the final years of the
project, on account of inadequate Rupee funding available with NHA to implement a very
large portfolio of ongoing contracts.
24.   Cumbersome Contract Administration Although the FHP contracts were based on
FIDIC conditions, significant changes were incorporated in the special conditions limiting the
authority of 'the Engineer'. All decisions related to approval of additional costs, issuance of
variation orders, certifying payments and issuing substantial completion, defects liability
certificate were retained by the executing agency. This resulted in undue delays in approval
and completion of works. The delays in issuance of defects liability certificates, which in some
cases has exceeded eighteen months, hindered the take over of these works by the NHA
Maintenance Wing.
25.   Revised Priorities A total of eight major contracts (No 1, 2, 3A, 6A, 6B, 7A, 7B and
8A), for construction of 355 km additional carriageway and four major bridges, were awarded
by 1989 in two rounds of bidding involving Bank's ICB procedures. In 1990 contracts 3B, 4
and 5 were dropped from the project and replaced by rehabilitation contracts 8B-I and -II
between Gujranwala and Rawalpindi. This was done as traffic on the N-5 sections north of
Hala did not grow at the projected rate, while rapid deterioration was experienced on N-5
between Gujranwala and Rawalpindi due to high and rapidly growing traffic volumes and axle
loads.
26.   Asphalt Pavement Design The progress was adversely affected by the problems related
to pavement design. Asphalt Concrete represented a relatively new technology in Pakistan.
There was little experience in the use of material under high temperatures and excessively
heavy axle loads with very high tire pressures. The original FHP pavement designs were
largely based on 1972 AASHTO Guidelines for flexible pavements. Major pavement related
failures were encountered on a few contracts shortly after opening to traffic, necessitating
review of these designs by an international pavement expert. NHA was advised to supplement
2Contracts 8b(i) and (ii) originally part of round 2 (Jan 89) were postponed and included in round 3 (Oct 91).



13
current design approaches with empirical-analytical design using mechanistic methods. This
has led to a significant change in the pavement designs adopted by NHA for all new projects,
and resulted in the use of thicker asphalt layers and higher unit costs.
27.   Highway Drainage Prior to dualizing N-5, the single carriageway was cambered to
drain on either side of the road. However, with the construction of a second carriageway,
median drainage became an important design consideration. This aspect of drainage was
unfortunately overlooked in the original FHP contract designs, and the resulting inadequate
drainage at times contributed to pavement failures. Bank staff were instrumental in
highlighting this problem, bringing it to the notice of NHA and its consultants during
supervision missions, and asking for the inclusion of missing drainage works in the contracts,
through variation orders if necessary. Another problem related to the lack of adequate
'daylighting' of aggregate base and subbase layers. This led to pavement distress on certain
contracts, particularly after heavy rains, necessitating expensive repairs and delaying project
completion. Bank staff have advised NHA to standardize use of "day-lighted" base and sub-
base layers in all future contracts.
28.   Unwillingness to Apply Contractual Remedies The prevailing contractual environment
in Pakistan, makes it extremely difficult for an Employer to exercise his contractual authority
to rescind a contract in the event of contractor's non-performance, or to apply remedies clearly
stated in the contract. The experience on contract 7a clearly demonstrates how easy it is for an
affected contractor to seek a court injunction against such termination, and force the Employer
to seek an out-of court settlement or risk major completion delays.
The various factors detailed above resulted in significant completion delays on most of the
FHP contracts. These delays, which ranged from 5% to 165% of the original contract
completion period, forced NHA to seek a one year extension of the loan closing date, to
complete the project.
Highway Maintenance Component
29.   Vehicle Overloading A continuing modal shift in freight traffic from road to rail, as
well as a trend towards increased vehicle overloading during the project period, caused
accelerated pavement deterioration and resulted in a significant annual increase in maintenance
funding requirements.
30.   GOP Funding The main problem affecting implementation of this vital component
was lack of adequate annual funding for routine and periodic maintenance throughout the
project period. The following table shows a comparison of the maintenance funding
requirements versus the actual allocation/expenditures:



14
Table B: Requirement for Maintenance Funds and Expenditures
(in Pak Rs)
Year             Requirement Based on Network               Expenditures
Needs
1987-88                     347,000                            180,000
1988-89                     422,770                            200,680
1989-90                     474,500                            268,850
1990-91                     600,000                            281,595
1991-92                     795,500                            378,000
1992-93                     930,000                            410,000
1993-94                    1,097,000                           430,500
1994-95                    1,317,000                           452,000
Maintenance expenditures increased at an average annual rate of around 20% in the period
between 1987-92, before tapering off during the later part of the project period. Although
annual routine and periodic maintenance allocations to NHA from the GOP recurrent budget
remained substantially short of requirements, the gap was largely made up through a series
capital maintenance programs (MBRP/RSP, 1992 Flood Damage Restoration etc.) with the
result that the overall condition of the NHA network (as indicated by the MIL survey)
remained fairly stable between 1989 and 1994.
Table C: Overall Condition of the National Highway Network
(as a percentage of total network length)
Maintenance Type                  1989              1991             1994
Network % requiring Routine Maintenance        48               34                51
Network % requiring Periodic Maintenance       31               44                30
Network % requiring Reconstruction             21               22                19
(Note: Total network length surveyed in 1994 was 6196 Km.)
31.   NHA Reorganization The reorganization of NHB into NHA in 1991, although a vital
step for the agency, was carried out at a time that was most inappropriate for the newly
created Maintenance Directorate, which was still in its early stages of development and had
just started being recognized as an important part of NHB. Frequent changes in the role and
structure of the maintenance organization affected its performance and staff morale. The
problem was compounded by the somewhat haphazard and premature decentralization of
maintenance operations to the regions. The degree of attention needed during these early days,
for timely resolution of issues and to institutionalize the new concepts, could have been
managed far better from the NHA headquarters in Islamabad, close to the NHA decision
makers and the maintenance consultants. This resulted in significant delays in implementation
of the maintenance program, lowered the quality of maintenance and led to an erosion of some
of the benefits realized during the earlier period. NHA management is currently reviewing the
effectiveness of its maintenance operations and intends to put in place improved checks and
controls to address some of the quality control issues that have resulted from decentralization
of maintenance to the regions.
32.   Expatriate Technical Assistance The project benefited from very substantial expatriate
specialist inputs for implementation of both the rehabilitation and maintenance component,



15
particularly during the early years. However, as the implementation progressed, the transition
to the use of locally available professional expertise was rather slow, with the result that the
original Technical Assistance allocations were exceeded.
Traffic Safety Component
33.   The proposed pilot-scale Highway Patrol aimed at controlling moving violations and
improving traffic safety could not take off as NTRC (the coordinating agency) was unable to
reach a satisfactory implementation agreement with the Punjab Police. The problem stemmed
from the jurisdictional conflict between the federal Ministry of Communications and the
provincial Home Department which managed the police. But the primary problem was
personality conflicts between Head of NTRC and senior Punjab police officials and the lack of
a high level policy decision by GOP which could have helped resolve the inter-agency
relationships and operating procedures.
34.   The Driver Instructor Training School (DITS) was dropped from the loan during the
implementation phase, because of lack of a long-term plan integrating the DITS into the Road
Safety strategy. Main concerns related to the sustainability of such an institution in terms of
the recurrent cost of the facility; the number of instructors trained yearly and their demand in
the private sector driving schools; and GOP policy regarding mandating recruitment of
certified instructors in these driver training schools.
35.   Assistance to Balochistan C&WD This component involved technical assistance to the
Government of Balochistan C&WD to improve construction and maintenance through quality
control and testing. Two expatriate staff members carried out this work with little support
from C&WD. A set of manuals were prepared for field and laboratory testing and pavement
design. In addition, a comprehensive report was prepared on use of the extensive equipment
resources available with the C&WD. This component ended abruptly with the demise of one
of the specialists, who was not replaced. C&WD failed to benefit from the technical assistance
C. Project Sustainability
36.   Institutional Reforms The Fourth Highway Project in a few short years saw the
transformation of the NHB from an agency with a small staff and a limited agenda for
development of the major national highways, to an autonomous highway authority responsible
for planning and implementing Pakistan's multi-billion dollar highway development program,
and reporting directly to the National Highway Council headed by the Prime Minister. The
NHA is already playing an increasingly important role in developing highway sector policies
including international transit agreements with neighboring countries, and is beginning to focus
attention on resource mobilization and the involvement of private sector. The reorganization
of NHA along functional lines has been approved by the National Highway Council, trial
adoption of the Policies and Procedures manual is underway, internal audit controls have been
instituted, and accounting procedures are being improved. A private sector cell has been
created to encourage private sector investment in highway development and operations. The



16
NHA in conjunction with the MOC has developed draft legislation for traffic safety and axle-
load controls on highways. The foregoing amply indicates that the institutional improvements
initiated under the project have borne fruit and helped NHA emerge as a viable organization
with a global view and greater commitment to the sustainable development of the highway
sector.
37.   The establishment of a separate road maintenance wing and traffic engineering
functions within NHA are among the features of the project that will help ensure sustainability
of the physical improvements achieved under the project. The introduction and widespread
acceptance of a maintenance management system featuring annual MIL surveys and further
improvements that are currently underway within NHA towards the development of a
comprehensive pavement management system (PMS) are strong indicators of the sustainability
of the project initiated maintenance implementation program.
38.   Physical Outputs The physical works completed under the project are being handed
over to the maintenance wing for inclusion under the annual maintenance program. However,
the current institutional arrangements for financing maintenance which rely exclusively on
budgetary transfers from GOP are unreliable. The Bank is now working with NHA on the
preparation of a proposed Highway Rehabilitation Project that aims to put in place new
institutional arrangements to ensure adequate financing of priority road maintenance
expenditures, independent of the budget.
D. Bank Performance
39.   The Bank played an effective role in project identification. Bank missions focused on:
the policy framework required for development of a maintenance program; GOP's
commitment to fund its implementation; mobilization of road user revenues to fund
rehabilitation and maintenance; and establishing a balance between rehabilitation and new
construction under the project. The Bank's strategy in the highway sub-sector, which
emphasized sustainable development, provided the basic framework for project design. During
project preparation, Bank staff helped ensure a consistent approach towards the feasibility
studies, particularly economic evaluation, that were carried out by several local consultants
under the overall supervision of an international consultant..
40.   The project objectives were appropriate and clear, and staff assistance to the borrower
during project preparation was generally satisfactory. However, project covenants did not
provide an explicit linkage between the continued mobilization of road user charges, and
adequate funding for highway maintenance. The proposed institutional improvements in
C&WD Balochistan appear to have been an effort to include some regional balance, but this
component had no bearing on any of the other project objectives. The Bank produced a
comprehensive staff appraisal report that addressed various aspects of the project and served
as a useful reference throughout implementation.



17
41.   Through fifteen supervisory missions carefully spaced during implementation, the
Bank's supervision was intense and involved, and played a major role in successful completion
of the project. These missions, though carrying a larger agenda involving other projects in the
transport/highway sector, helped in keeping the objectives in focus during implementation.
From the initial stages of the project, Bank staff kept a keen eye on procurement, and provided
guidance to NHA on key issues relating to the award of construction contracts. NHA was
encouraged to take timely decisions on contractors' claims regarding cost escalation and re-
rating that were critical in completion of the major contracts within the project period. At
times, Bank missions even went on record in urging NHB/NHA to appoint eligible and
deserving staff with a proven record of performance to key positions to ensure sustainability of
the new initiatives, particularly the maintenance program. On technical matters, the Bank's
decision to fund an international expert to study the pavement failures, and useful advice given
by Bank staff during supervision missions, particularly regarding drainage issues, helped
immensely in improving the quality of the completed works in particular, and highway design
practices in general.
42.   Learning from past experience, the Bank remained cognizant of the GOP's limited
ability to provide counterpart funding throughout the project, and took timely steps in this
regard. It advised the GOP to hold fuel prices in case of lowering of international oil prices
which helped in ensuring adequate budgetary resources for counterpart funding. When the
GOP decided to launch a major construction program for the N-55 Indus Highway (that runs
parallel to N-5 on the west bank of river Indus), the Bank advised against this undertaking,
highlighting that GOP risked over-committing its resources and diverting N-5 traffic to the
new highway, thereby lowering the economic viability of the project. During a resource
crunch in the country as a result of the Gulf war, the Bank showed flexibility by allowing an
accelerated rate of disbursement that financed 70% of the cost of civil works, instead of the
original 51%, which helped ensure uninterrupted implementation of the project. During round
two of bidding, the Bank advised NHB to postpone the award of one of the contracts and
return unopened bids, as the available counterpart funding was not adequate. During 1991-92
when GOP launched a major highway expansion program, the Bank advised against the
construction of multi-billion dollars multi-lane motorways in the absence of significant traffic
volumes. This contributed to the eventual government's decision to drop the Islamabad -
Peshawar motorway project. In summary, the overall performance of the Bank was
satisfactory.
E. Borrower Performance
43.   The project was identified and prepared jointly by NHB and the Bank, building on the
achievements and experiences of the Third Highway Project and keeping in view the country's
development needs in the highway subsector. NHB's performance during identification was
satisfactory. However, during project preparation, incomplete engineering designs of some
parts of the project's physical works (e.g. lack of median drainage in bid drawings, Round 3
pavement rehabilitation contracts bid without detailed drawings, etc. ) led to subsequent
implementation delays and increases in completion cost.



18
44.   During implementation NHB/NHA's performance was mixed, as it practically grew
during the eight-year life of the project from a small agency with limited staff resources and a
modest development portfolio, to a major actor in Pakistan's transport sector with a large and
growing portfolio of projects. After a good start, the desired level of attention needed from
NHA senior management for expeditious project implementation could not be maintained
during 1991-93, as NHA embarked on a major highway expansion program that included the
Lahore - Islamabad motorway and the Lahore Bypass projects. Added to this was the
reorganization of the agency along functional lines which, although a positive step, affected the
performance of NHA during the transition phase. However, the role of the Project
Management Cell (PMC), was crucial in keeping project implementation on track, particularly
during this difficult period.
45.   Most of the major civil work contracts for construction/rehabilitation of the N-5 faced
completion delays and cost overruns due to poor contractor prequalification, inadequate pre-
construction preparation, and at times weak contract administration. However, the project
works were largely completed within the extended project period, the loan was fully disbursed,
the quality of the constructed works was generally quite good, and the project helped establish
improved construction practices within the construction industry.
46.   On the maintenance implementation program NHB/NHA's performance was
constrained primarily due to lack of adequate annual budgetary allocations for maintenance, a
factor largely beyond NHA's control. The switch over from the "yardstick" based maintenance
work carried out under force-account arrangements by the provincial C&WDs to a
"measurement based" contract maintenance program was carried out quite smoothly. This was
partly due to the fact that NHB had no departmental labor force, equipment or facilities to
dispose off, but also due to the efforts that went in planning the transition. NHB/NHA's
success in institutionalizing maintenance in its organization, adoption of the MIL system,
implementation and expansion of the contract maintenance program to its entire network, and
more recent efforts aimed at developing a comprehensive pavement management system, have
been commendable.
47.   Starting with FY 1993-94, NHA introduced on a trial basis, lump sum "Term and
Length" typ contracts for routine maintenance. These contracts were awarded through
competitive bidding for specific segments of the highway for a fixed period of one year. No
quantities were included in the contract, instead a list of work items formed the basis of the
contract. Monthly payments were based on inspections. Results to date have been mixed.
NHA management is currently reviewing the comparative advantages of the Term and Length
approach versus the conventional measured contracts to determine which course of action to
adopt for the future.
48.   Under the Highway Maintenance Implementation Program, NHA officials worked
closely with the Maintenance Consultants and gradually took over their local PEU engineering
staff and management and operation of the highway maintenance program, by the end of the
Consultants assignment in 1993. As the requirement for improvement of the existing highway



19
network to cater for growing traffic and heavy axle loads increased, NHA felt the need to
develop the MIL system into a comprehensive Pavement Management System (PMS). PEU
staff has now been transferred to a newly established Pavement Management Cell which is
working towards this objective. The expanded PMS is being used to identify highway sections
for inclusion in the proposed Bank assisted Highway Rehabilitation Project.
49.   NHA's performance in terms of complying with the project covenants was largely
satisfactory. All covenants were complied within the deadline. Overall, NHA's performance
during implementation was satisfactory.
50.   The consultants (for project management, maintenance management and contract
supervision) made a significant contribution in assisting NHA achieve the principle objectives
of the project. It was this joint partnership between NHA and the consultants that led to the
successful conclusion of the project. The overall performance of the consultants was
satisfactory.
51.   Except for the contractors working on Contract 7a and Contract 2, the performance of
the construction contractors was largely satisfactory - given the originally weak state of the
domestic construction industry - even though completion of several of the FHP contracts was
delayed beyond the original date. The performance of the joint venture who were awarded
Contract 2 was affected by the split of the joint-venture first and by serious cash-flow problems
of the remaining partner later; in addition, some sections of the road showed severe pavement
failures shortly after opening and had to be reconstructed by a local contractor.
F. Assessment of Outcome
52.   The principal objectives of the project were largely achieved. Besides significantly
reducing the transportation cost on the N-5 by road rehabilitation and construction, the
improvements along the N-5 highway also contributed significantly in improving the traffic
safety through increased capacity; and the separation of the north and south bound traffic.
Institutional improvements within NHA to plan and manage highway maintenance and
operation through the introduction of modern technical and financial management practices
were successfully achieved. NHA's reorganization along functional lines combined with
adoption of policies and procedural reforms will go a long way in enabling NHA to implement
the country's development objectives in the highway subsector. The highway maintenance
program has been institutionalized over the past several years, but NHA still requires and
adequate and stable source of highway maintenance funding. The major achievement of the
maintenance program was not only generating awareness of the importance of proper
maintenance among all those involved in the development of the road sector in the country, but
also showing the way how it can be done in a cost effective manner in the face of innumerable
constraints. This emphasis on highway maintenance generated by the project helped mobilize
some additional share of revenues collected from road users for highway maintenance in the
early years of project implementation.



20
53.   The construction industry received a powerful impetus as a result of the project. A
large number of maintenance contractors have emerged. Several have grown and are now
equipped to carry out large works, enhancing the domestic construction industry's capacity to
implement future rehabilitation and maintenance programs.
54.   The project was completed within one year of the original target and the entire loan
was disbursed. Despite construction delays and substantial increase in the scope of work on
some contracts, the highway improvement works remained quite cost effective, and compared
favorably in terms of unit cost with other similar contracts awarded by GOP during the project
period. Table D provides the cost per kilometer of completed additional carriageway and
major rehabilitation works let out under three rounds of bidding.
Table D: Completed Projects - Cost per Kilometer
Bid           Contract      Awarded       Avg. Cost Per Km      Remarks
Round         No            (Mo/Yr)       (Mill Rs)
1             1, 3a, 7a, 7b    Nov-Dec/87    8.02       Additional carriageway
2             2, 6a, 6b     Jan-Jun/89    9.76           Additional carriageway
3             8b(i), 8b(ii)    Oct/91     13.593         Reconstruction/ rehabilitation
55.    On balance, the overall assessment of the project can be rated as quite satisfactory.
G. Future Operations
56.   NHA has developed an Operation Plan for the assets created under the project, which
primarily consists of all road sections and associated structures improved/constructed under
various contracts (A copy of the plan is enclosed in Appendix A). The plan does not require
any additional staffing as the existing institutional arrangements for maintenance are considered
adequate. However, additional maintenance funding provision over the next five years has
been indicated in line with the maintenance needs of other roads of similar age. The actual
maintenance need will be assessed annually as part of NHA's annual maintenance/pavement
condition surveys.
57.   The contractual maintenance periods for most of the work completed under the project
have now elapsed and Defect Liability Certificates have been issued, after some initial delay.
NHA maintenance section has finally taken over these sections for routine maintenance starting
from FY 1996-97. Some sections of the road which have now been open to traffic for the last
3The cost under these contracts on the Gujranwala - Rawalpindi section of N-5 was high due to: major changes
in pavement design; extra thickness of asphalt to provide desired cross slope for drainage; increase in
reconstruction and major rehabilitation instead of overlay; and inclusion of high priority drainage and traffic
safety works.



21
couple of years (since substantial completion) without routine maintenance contracts being in
effect, have begun to show the signs of this neglect; and will require careful attention during
FY 1996-97 to make good the past lapse.
58.   The monitoring indictors identified for the operation plan are adequate to evaluate the
performance of the plan, and are sustainable as they rely on the information routinely collected
by NHA and NTRC. NHA has been requested to have the information on indicators compiled
periodically, and shared with the Bank.
H. Key Lessons Learned
59.   The experience with implementation of the highway safety component, highlights the
need to keep project designs simple. Components should be limited to those that can be
implemented through a single or a few agencies. Also, project design should be flexible, to
allow for adjustments and improvements during implementation. It is not prudent to include
detailed and contract specific implementation plans for works expected to be undertaken in the
outer years at the time of initial project preparation.
60.   Use improved pre-qualification procedures, as outlined in the Bank's current standard
prequalification documents. Avoid awarding contracts to firms that lack adequate capacity.
During the bid evaluation process, ensure reasonable rates before recommending a contract
for award. Ensure that pre-construction activities for which the Employer is responsible (e.g.
land acquisition, relocation of utilities, etc.), are completed before contract award.
61.   Improve project preparation and detailed designs to minimize variations during
implementation. Develop cost effective pavement options for Pakistani conditions. For heavily
trafficked roads in particular, asphalt concrete pavement designs using the 1986 AASHTO
Design Guide may need to be cross-checked using mechanistic procedures, due to excessive
axle loads and very high tire pressures and climatic considerations. Ensure drainage is fully
addressed during the design process.
62.   Carefully prioritize highway sector investments to ensure availability of adequate
counterpart funds for timely implementation.
63.   Adopt simplified and streamlined construction administration procedures. Include the
provision of dispute resolution boards in contracts to minimize the need for either party to seek
legal recourse from courts and the risk of related delays.
64.   There is a need to put in place reliable off-budget arrangements for adequately funding
highway maintenance. Inadequate funding for road maintenance remained a constant hurdle for
NHA throughout the project period, resulting in less than complete implementation of
meticulously prepared maintenance programs.



22
65.   To ensure the integrity of the highway network, the issue of vehicle overloading and
axle load control must also be addressed. The July 1995 NTRC axle load study confirms an
alarming rise in vehicle overloading and excessive axle loads resulting in accelerated
deterioration of the pavements. The GOP is considering new legislation (Highway Safety Act)
to give it legal authority to check and control vehicle overloading. However, progress has
been slow. Enforcement of axle load control will require several supporting measures such as:
(i) a network of weigh-stations to monitor vehicle overloading; (ii) fiscal disincentives to
discourage use of offending vehicles; (iii) a revised tariff structure that makes road user
charges proportional to pavement damage; coupled with (iv) self-regulation by the trucking
industry.
66.   The use of local/in-country expertise should be maximized to reduce reliance on long-
term expatriate inputs. Pakistani consulting firms have benefited significantly from FHP, in
terms of design skills and contract supervision experience. In many areas their engineering
skills can now be compared with consulting firms from the developed countries. Expatriate
input in future projects should be limited to specialist skills that are not available locally.
I. Evaluation of Program Obiectives Categories
67.   Poverty reduction, gender issues, other social objectives and environmental objectives
were not directly related to the project and hence were not evaluated.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Ln. 2184-PAK)
PART II - Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.     Achievement of obiectives              Substantial    Partial Ne2lizible      Not Applicable
Macro policies                                        x
Sector policies                       x
Financial Objectives                                  x
Institutional development             x
Physical objectives                   x
Poverty reduction                                                            x
Gender issues                                                                x
Other social objectives                                                      x
Environmental objectives                                                     x
Public sector management                              x
Private sector development            x
Others (specify)       None
B.     Project sustainaibility                Likely          Unlikely               Uncertain
x
Highly
C.     Bank Performance                       satisfactory    Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                                        x
Preparation assistance                                x
Appraisal                                             x
Supervision                                           x
Highly
D.     Borrower performance                   satisfactory    Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                                        x
Preparation                                                                  x
Appraisal                                             x
Supervision                                           x
Highly                                        Highly
E.     Assessment of Outcome           satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
x



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title              Purpose             Year of Approval        Status
Preceding Operations
1. First Highway Project   Construction of new 142 km  1963             Completed
(Cr. 54-PAK)            Karachi-Hyderabad section of
N-5 highway
2. Second Highway       Reconstruction of Sahiwal-    1969              Cancelled due to
Project (Ln. 578-PAK)    Lahore and Lahore-Sargodha-                    very high bids
Mianwali sections (270 km) of N-
5
3. Third Highway Project  Rehabilitation of three major  1979           Completed
(Cr. 974-PAK)           sections (269 km) of N-5, and
improvement of a provincial road
(29 km) in NWFP
Following Operations
1. Transport Sector     Rehabilitation, resurfacing and    1990         Underway
Project (Ln. 3241 -PAK) -  strengthening of 800 kms of
Highway Component       National Highway.
Reorganization of NHB.
2. Flood Damage         Repairs, restoration and      1993              Underway
Restoration Project (Cr.   reconstruction of roads and cross
2468-PAK) - Road        drainage structures and bridges
Corn  neet              damaged by 1992 flood.    _
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned                   Date Actual/
. ~~Last Estimate
Identification                         June 1984                    August 1986
Preparation
Appraisal                                                          October 1986
Negotiations                         January 1987                   March 1987
Board Presentation                  March 31, 1987                 May 14, 1987
Signing                                July 1987                September 10, 1987
Effectiveness                          July 1987                November 16, 1987
Project Completion                December 31, 1994              December 31, 1995
Loan Closing                      December 31, 1994              December 31, 1995



Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91    FY92   FY93    FY94              FY95      FY96
Appraisal          10.6    33.4    63.8       94.2  120.1   138.3       149.0     152.0   152.0
Estimate
Actual              9.4    17.6    30.8      43.7   72.9    96.4        120.5     142.3   152.0
Actual as % of     89%      53%     48%      46%    61%       70%        81%       94%   100%
Estimate
Date of Final                                                                             May
Disbursement                                                                              14,
1996
TABLE04.DO,C/FHP/17APR96



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key implementation indicators in              Estimated              Actual
SAR/President's Report
1. N-5 Improvements                          _______
a) New construction (km)                   538 km          355 km
b) Rehabilitation (km)                     112 km           149 km
c) Total Expenditure (Rs Mill.)            5039            6807
2. Maintenance (Rs Mill.)                     __
a) GOP Funding (% of Demand)                               Demand          Actual
1987/88                  347             180 (52%)
1993/94                  1097            430 (39%)
b) Network Condition based on MIL* Score                   1989            1994
% Routine Maintenance                  48%               51%
% Periodic Maintenance           _      31%              30%
% Reconstruction                  21%              19%
c) No of qualified contractors                             81 (1988)     1310 (1992)
* Maintenance Intervention Level
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key operation indicators in SARIPresident's    Estimated              Actual
Report
1. Road Condition (average Pavement Index) for
improved N-5 Sections
CPI*              OPI*
Contract 1                                                   12.45            22.05
Contract 2                                                   07.65             13.19
Contract 3a                                                  06.47            08.40
Contract 6a                                                  44.95            38.50
Contract 6b                                                  37.69            24.78
Contract 7a                                                  09.20             12.41
Contract 7b                                                  12.98             12.30
Contract 8bI                                                  11.42            12.62
Contract 8bII                                                 13.39           14.42
2. Traffic Levels (AADT*) on improved sections                 Ref. Tab 9 for current ADT
counts on individual contracts
3. Annual Maint expend on improved sections                            34.78 Mill Rs
* CPI = Combined Pavement Index; OPI = Overall Pavement Index; See NHA Technical Report "Proposed Highway Rehabilitation Project" of
Dec. 1995 for a detailed definition of these diatress indicies (Threshold Level = 70).
AADT = Annual Average Daily Traffic



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                Purpose as defined at      Status                   Impact of Study
| AppraisaUredefined                                I
1. Provincial       Review of the management    Not caried out due to    -
Maintenance Study    and execution of maintenance  lack of interest by the
in provinces, and identify and  provinces
recommend organization
alternatives and technical
improvements                                                               I
2. Import of spare   review import procedures for   Completed            Construction has been
parts for construction   construction machinery &                        declared an industry,
equipment            vehicles and level of import                        duties have been lowered
duties                                              and restrictions on import
of equipment has been
eased
3. Contracting /     Review the prevailing      Not carried out during   -
Construction         construction environment and  FHP due to delays in
Industry Study       related recent developments    TOR preparation and lack
including impact of FHP and   of response from
other major highway        consultants. Will be
construction programs      funded under TSP, as part
of Higway Rehabilitation
Project preparation.
4. Road User         Review and recommend       Inception report was     Findings to be used as
Charges / Resouce    improvements in the present   received in December  input in Highway
generation Study     collection of road user     1994. Reports on road   Rehabilitation Project
charges, including additional  user charges and taxation   implementation.
measures and a feasible time   in road sector submitted
frame for implementation   by April '96. Draft final
report epected by Aug '96
5. Axle Load Survey   Carry out detailed survey of   NTRC axle load survey    NHA/MOC is pursuing
and Optimum Axle    axle loads plying on the    completed in 1995.       introduction of new
Load Study           national roads, and identify    Optimum axle load study   legislation (The Highway
optimum axle load limits for   completed in July '96.  Safety Ordinance '96) to
NHA network.               Recomended 12 ton        provide government legal
single axle load limit.  authority to check and
control vehicle overloads.
Enactment expected during
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   19 9 6 .
6. Composite         To update the CSR prepared   Completed              Use of uniform standard
Schedule of Rates    by the same consultant in                           rate analysis for
(CSR)                1994                                                consultants and NHA in
preparing engineering
estimates and evaluating
bids
7. Future Projects   Identification and preparation  Used in preparation of
of future transport projects  TSP.
and other studies in the
, __________________    transport subsector



Table 8A: Project Costs
(in Million)
Item                          Aimraisal Estimate                                Actual                  l
Local       Foreign            Total         Local    Foreign            Total
Cost        Cost                             Cost       Cost
(Rs)        (Rs)          (Rs)   (US$)        (Rs)         (Rs)   (Rs)  (US$)
1. Highway&             1793         1860      3653    209.9        4620        2385    7005   271.9
Bridge
Construction                                                                                           l
2. Maintenance            88            87       175      10.1        18          127     145      5.6
Improvement
Program
3. Assistance to           4            26        30       1.7        20           13      33       1.3
Balochistan                                                                                            l
4. Road Safety            41            20        61      3.5         49            -      49       1.9
Program                                                                                                I
Physical & Price         718          402       1121      59.5                -          -            -
Contingencies
TOTAL                   2644         2395      5039    284.7        4707         2525    7232   280.7
Notes:
i) Exchange rate at appraisal: US$ 1.0 = Pak Rs 17
ii) Exchange rate used for Actual Costs: USS 1.0 = Pak Rs 25.76 (Average Feb '87 to Jun '96)
iii) Aside from consruction ans supervision, actual Highway and Bridge Construction costs include land acquisition, relocation of utilities
and NHA establishment costs under GOP share.
Table 8B: Project Financing
(in Milion)
Source            Appraisal Estimate (US$)                       Actual/Latest Estimate
l                                                       :         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To tal
Local        Foreign      Total        Local        Foreign          Rs           US$
l_________ Cost            Cost                      Cost (Rs)   Cost (Rs)
IBRD         16.7         135.3        152.0        1391         2525          3916         152.0
GOP          132.7        0.0          132.7        3316         -            3316          128.7
Contributi
TOTAL        149.4      1 135.3        284.7        4707          5252         7232         280.7



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Contract      Highway Segment              SAR    Re-estimated   Re-estimated    Benefits
Number                                    EIRR   EIRR              B/C Ratio        Reduced 20%
1&2           Karachi - Hyderabad         30       40.3            12.20            37.2
3a            Hyderabad - Hala             18      30.0            6.80             27.7
6a & 6b       Mianchannu - Sahiwal         24      19.3            2.49             17.6
7a & 7b       Guiranwala - Kharian        26       34.9            10.32            32.9
8bI & 8bII    Guiranwala - Rawalpindi   26         28.0            6.55             26.0
Mean:  27        30.5 ...                    _    28.3
NOTES:
1. All traffic figures are drawn from data published by NTRC.
2. HDMlII has been used for economic analysis.
3. Consbtuction costs are based on the monthly progress reports published by PMCINHA.
4. Sensitivity of the Re-estimated EIRR is tested by reducing benefits by 20% to account for traffic uncertainty.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree-     Section       Cove   Present   Original    Revised     Description of covenant                                    Comment
ment                     -nant  Status   fisillment  fulfillment
l  type   _      date        date
LA         3.01(a)       4,10   CP                                Provide promptly as needed the funds and other resources   The level of ADP funding provided has genrally been adequate for the
C28 140                            _                              required for the project                                   project imlementation, except for certain years.
3.01(b)       10     CP                                Cany out the project in accordance with the Implementation  Generally complied with, except for the shortfall in annual maintenance
l______             ._____  ______   Program and the Road Maintenance Plan in Schedule 5.                         funding described below.
4.01          1      C         12/31/95                Provide the Bank audited project accounts, not later then six  Audit of FY95 project accounts conspleted Report provided intime.
l________                      ________                months after the end of each year.
4.02         2       CP                                Review and modify, as appropriate, the systen of collecting road   The NHA Act (1991) confers the power to colled tolls. and to undrtake
user charges, in accordance with a mutually acceptable timetable.   projects through Private Sector Financi   NHA currently colecting tols
on some major bridges and plan to operate LMP as tol facility. Resource
Generation Study report received in May 96.
4.03          11     CP                                Give Bank timely opportunities to consult on the Borrower's  NHA draft FY96 ADP reviewed during the April 95 PSDP missiorL
investment plan for the National Highway System. Give due  Recommendations provided on both core and non-core investments. FY96
consideration to any comment and suggestions made by the Bank.   PSDP allocations for FHP and TSP were inadequate. NHA agreed to adust
per i_nplementation needs.
4.04          10     C                                 Take all necessary measures to prevent encroachment of right of    NHA is implementing contracts to install fencing along selected sections of
way (ROW) of length of highway constructed under Bank     N-5 Bypasses. In addition, ROW markers placement / restoration has been
financed projects.                                         included as a standard work item in RM. contracs starting FY96.
Schedule 5,   5      C        09/30/87                 NHA to establish and thereafter maintain a Project Management    Done.
Para. I                                                Cell, with duly cualified and experienced staff.
Schedule 5,   10     C         12/31/87                Furnish training planto Bank by December 31, 1987 and carry  Training of NHA and contractor's staffhas concluded. A final report has
Para. 2                                                out acceptable training.                                   been received.
Schedule 5,   10     NC                                Carry out a Provincial Maintenance Study in accordance with a    Not done. Provincial C&Ws were not interested in what they considered
Para. 4                                                mutually agreed schedule, for the purpose of extending the  intesference from federal level.
maintenance improvement program into the C&Ws.
Schedule 5,   12     C         10/31/87                Establish an inter-agency comnittee to review import procedures    A report was received in February 1989. Constniction has now been
Pars 6                                                 and levcls of duty for spare parts of construction machinery and  declared an "industry", duties have been lowered, and restrictions on
l__________                   __________               vehicles.                                                  import of equipment have been eased.
Schedule 5,   11     CP        12/31/87                Make available necessary finds for the periodic and routine  Indicative figures provided. The covenant was expanded under the TSP to a
Annex,Para.                                            maintenance ofthe NHSystcm over the period FY87-88 through    Core Investment and Maintenance Program for 1990-93. Actual
3                                                      91-92. Advise Bank by December 31, 1987, indicative planning    maintenanoe exceeded agreed allocations, but remained short of network
figures per annum of such period.                         needs.
Schedule 5,   5      C         12/31/87                Establish a Maintenance Directorate headed by a Director.  Done. Underthe NHA organization, the administration of nmintenance
Annex,                                                 Directorate to include a Pavement Monitoring and Traffic   contracts has been decentralized to maintenance directors in regional office,
Para. 4                                                Engineering Unit. Directorate to evaluate annual routine and  with a smaller unit at the headquarters.
periodic maintenance needs ofthe highway system, and to
administer maintenance contracts following a unifonn procedure.
Key:
Covenant Type:                                                                                    Status:
1 = Accounts/audits complied with                                                       C = Covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue generated from beneficiaries                          CD = Complied with after delay
3 = Flow and utility of project funds                                                   CP   Complied with partially
4 = Counterpart funding                                                                 NC = Not complied with
5 = Management aspects of project/executing agency
6 = Environmtental covenants
7 = Involuntary resettlement
8 = Indigenous people
9 = Monitoring, review and reporting
10 = Project implementation not covered by 1-9
11 = Sectoral/cross-sectoral budget/allocations
12 = Sectoral/cross-sectoral policy regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other



Table 11: Compliance with O perational Manual Statements
Statement number and Title         Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1.    N/A
2.
3.
!~~~~~~~~~~~    I



Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project          Planned                      Revised                     Actual
|Cycle_                                                    
Cycle               Weeks          US$          Weeks          US$    |   Weeks             USS
Preparation to
Appraisal
Appraisal
Negotiations
through Board
Approval                                         ____
Supervision
Completion
TO TA L_ _            _  _   _  _  _  _  _    __  _  _   _  _  _  _  _    __  _  _   _  _  _    _  _
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of       Month /    Number  Days   Specialized    Performan  ce Rating           Types of
Project Cycle      Year          of      in   I Staff Skills                             Problems
Persons   Field   Represented  Implmenta   Developme
___________  _______tion  Status  nt Impact
Through         Sep-Oct 86       3        24        T,E
Appraisal                                                                  __
Appraisal
through
Board
Approval
Board
Approval
through
effectiveness
Supervision 1
2     Oct87          1        14         T             1       _I,P,F
3   Jan-Feb88        1        12         T             1                       I,P,F
4   May-Jun 88       1        16         T             1                     I, P, F, T
5     Oct88          1        16         T             2                      I, P, F, T
6     Feb89          1        18         T             2                      I,P,F,T
8   Sep-Oct90|   3            14       T,E,F           3       _I,P,F,T
9  Apr-May 91        2        15        T, E           3                      I, P, F. T
11  Apr-May92         3        18         T             2                        P,T
13     Feb94          4        18        T,E            2                 _     I,F,T
14     Dec94          3        12         T             I                        I,F
Completion    Oct-Nov 95        5        18        T, A                                    I, F
Key:    Staff Skills Represented:                         Type of Problems:
T = Technical   E = Economist                    I = Institutional;    F = Financial
F = Finance     A = Administrative               P = Physicall;   T = Technical



Appendix A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Ln. 2814-PAK)
Mission's Aide-Memoire (with Operation Plan)



PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT - (LOAN 2814-PAK)
and
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT - (LOAN 3241-PAK)
(Highway Component Only)
Supervision Mission, October 1995
Aide Memoire
(FHP No. 15 & TSP No. 11)
1.    During the period October 15, through November 2, 1995, a World Bank
mission comprising Messrs. Navaid A. Qureshi (Mission Leader), Hasan Masood
and B. P. Kennedy reviewed progress on the Fourth Highway Project (FHP) and
Transport Sector Project (TSP) (highway component only) and discussed and
agreed a schedule for the preparation of an Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) for the Fourth Highway Project. Messrs. Hardyal Singh and Amanullah K.
Malik joined the mission part-time for some meetings. The mission also held
preliminary discussions with GOP/NHA regarding a proposed Highway
Rehabilitation Project and agreed on the preparatory steps needed, and on a
timetable for their completion. The Aide Memoire records the findings of the
mission and records the agreements and understandings reached among the
officials of the National Highway Authority (NHA) and the mission. It is
subject to confirmation by Bank management.
2.    The World Bank Mission members wish to record their appreciation for the
courtesies and cooperation extended to them by the officials of the NHA in
headquarters and in the Provinces and for the excellent field trip
arrangements (the field trip itinerary appears as Attachment 1).
3.    This combined Aide-Memoire is arranged as follows:
I.           Fourth Highway Project (FHP)
II.          Transport Sector Project (TSP)
III          Proposed Highway Rehabilitation Project
Attachments



2
I. FOURTE HIGEWAY PROJECT (Ln.2814-PAK)
(Final Aide Memoire No.15)
1.    The project will be substantially completed by December 31, 1995, the
extended Closing Date for Loan 2814-PAK. Minor works contracts related to
shoulder protection, fencing and drainage and some ancillary works on
Contracts 7a, and 8B(i) amounting to about Rs 200 m (3% of total project cost)
will be completed after this date with GOP financing. The project is generally
in compliance with the legal covenants. The actions agreed during the December
1994 Supervision mission have largely been met, with the exception of the
action relating to the provision of additional maintenance funding for
FY95/96. Attachment 2 is an extract from the October, 1995 Project Management
Cell (PMC) Progress Report indicating the overall status of the sub-projects.
There is a brief discussion below of the ongoing project components.
Project Costs
2.    The current overall project financial position is summarized below:
Total (m PRs)                IBRD (m US$)
Oct. 31, 94   Sep.30, 95   Oct.31, 94   Sep. 30, 95
Project Cost                      5,039                           152
(SAR Estimate)
Current Compl Cost      7,208         7,266          152           152
Total Cormnitments      7,113         7,266          150.43(99%)
Total Expenditures      5,721 (79%)   6,481 (90%)   126.0(83%)    147.2(97%)
Cost of Bal of Work    1,392            785          24.4(16%)      4.8(3%)
IBRD Disbursement                                    138.3(91%)    147.3(97%)
_____________               I   Nov.94.     Sep.95
Disbursement Lag                                     9%            3%
Expenditure and Counterpart Funding.
3.    Attachment 2 also gives the status of Disbursements, details of
completion costs and required GOP and Loan financing for project completion as
of Sep. 30, 1995. Expenditures of about Rs 190 m (Rs 130 m GOP) were incurred
on FHP during the first quarter of FY9S/96. The mission estimates that about
Rs 640 m. (incl. Rs. 490 m as GOP share)2 would be required beyond September
1995 to complete the project. Of this amount, civil works and consultants
expenditures of.approximately Rs_465 m are expected to be incurred by Dec. 31,
1995. The balance work (of about Rs 175 m) will have to be fully financed by
NRA from GOP sources. Since an amount of only Rs 100 m was allocated to FHP in
NRA's 95/96 PSDP, additional allocations will be required. NHA has already
requested GOP to provide the necessary funds to expeditiously complete these
works. NRA management and the mission agreed that ti) all efforts will be made
1 Incldiaing Rs 146 m in NHA establishment costs.
_  Excluding NIA's establishment costs.
n. '7



3
to fully utilize the remaining loan amount by the closing date; and (ii) the
scope of the remaining works would be reviewed immediately and reduced to the
absolute minimum by eliminating non-essential items.
Achievement of Project Objectives
4.    The project objectives were to:
a) lower vehicle operating costs on the N-5 highway;
b) strengthen the NHB, now the NHA;
c) improve road safety;
d) develop the domestic contractors; and
e) mobilize revenues for maintaining national roads.
The ICR will provide a comprehensive evaluation of the project. However, some
highlights of the project's impact are now evident.
5.    Objectives (a), (c) and (d) have been substantially achieved and the
significant progress made on objectives (b) and (e) is continuing. A total
length of about 343 Km of the most important national road, the N-5 has been
dualized and an additional 107 Km of the existing carriageway has been
rehabilitated, strengthened and resurfaced. In addition, a total of 23 major
bridges on this road have been completed under the project. These improvements
to the N-5 road have resulted in major benefits to the economy of Pakistan
through savings in vehicle operating costs on the new and improved roads and
bridges.
6.    Furthermore, the additional capacity provided on the N-5 and the
rehabilitation and bridge works, have resulted in a notable improvement in
road safety. The road and bridge works have been designed and built to higher
and safer standards and have relieved congestion and reduced accidents by
separating the north/south traffic. A further contribution to road safety has
been made by the construction of junction improvements, by-passes and some
lay-bys at urban areas to relieve congestion.
7.    These economic benefits have resulted from very cost-effective
investments in the highway subsector. The completion costs of the additional
carriageway contracts range from Rs 5 m to Rs 13 m per Km. The estimated costs
of the rehabilitation, reconstruction and overlay works on Contracts 8b(i) and
8b(ii) average around Rs 12 m per Km.
8.    The development of a strong domestic contracting industry has received a
powerful impetus under the project. Several local contractors have developed
into strong well resourced major contractors who can now compete against
international contractors. Some are now beginning to expand their operations
outside Pakistan. Smaller contractors working on routine and periodic
maintenance contracts have received training and assistance under the project.
Some have now.acquired-equipment A(including hot-mix asphalt p'tants) and are
operating at a-higher_level. In addition, the expertise and experience of
local consultants have been enhanced through their involvement in the design
and supervision of-the project components.
9.    Progress has been -made in strengthening the NRA, which replaced the NHB
*            in'1991.' Policies and Procedures and Construction Administration Manuals
r            prepared under the FHP to enable the new Authority to efficiently manage the
national road system are now in the process of being adopted. Staff positions,



4
previously only on a temporary basis, have now been regularized and staff
morale has much improved. Assistance for the institutional strengthening of
NHA is continuing under the Transport Sector Project.
10.   Another principal objective of the project has been achieved in regard
to NHA's capability for highway maintenance. The Pavement Evaluation Unit
(PEU) set up under the project has established a Maintenance Intervention
Level (MIL) scoring system which indicates annually the routine, periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation needs of the national road network and the
related funding requirements. The MIL survey has been done annually for the
past 5 years and allows NHA to monitor the condition of its network. NRA is
now in the process of expanding the MIL system into a more comprehensive
Pavement Management System (PMS). FHP has also introduced the system of
"maintenance-by-contract" within NRA, which has resulted in major efficiencies
over the previously used force account system. Furthermore, NHA has developed
"term and length" Routine Maintenance contracts over the last two years.
Unfortunately, the advantages of the MIL maintenance management system and the
more efficient maintenance by contract approach have not been fully recognized
within GOP, as evidenced by the increasing gap between NRA's annual
maintenance funding requirements and allocations for road maintenance.
Civil Works
11.   All the major civil works contracts have been completed except for
Contracts 7A, 8b(i) and 8b(ii). Substantial completion of these contracts is
expected by end December 1995. Minor contracts for essential median drainage,
fencing and treatment of shoulders were started in early 1995. Implementation
has been slow, with the result that about 65% of these works are now expected
extend beyond the closing date. Attachment 2 includes the mission's estimate
of balance work beyond December 31, 1995.
Contract 7a
12.   The contract is about 84% complete. Progress remains painfully slow. The
latest extension to the contract period expired on December 31, 1994. The main
pavement works have been completed and only a small quantity of aggregate base
and asphaltic paving work at Gujranwala bypass and bituminous treatment of
shoulders remains. The contractor apparently has serious cash flow problems.
NRA is considering contractual options for completing the remaining work.
Contracts 8b(i) and 8b(ii)
13.   Contract 8b(i) for the rehabilitation and resurfacing of about 88 km of
the N-5 between Gujranwala and Jhelum and some 2.5 km at Shahdara, is expected
to be substantially completed by end December 1995.
14.   Contract 8b(ii) covering about 61 km of the N-5 between Jhelum and
Rawalpindi, was substantially completed in February 1995. Some pavement
settlements-have occurred following the recent heavy rains. The lack of
effective median drainage appears to have contributed to the problem. NRA was
of the view that settlements have primarily occurred due to the incorporation
of the existing high embankments into the new road. NHA has investigated the
matter and is expected to direct commencement of remedial works shortly.
x.",% * .   -  .    ..



5
Drainage Problems
15.   The mission again strongly recommends that NRA introduce median drainage
for dual carriageways and full day-lighting of the pavement structures as a
standard design feature in order to prevent the recurrence of costly failures.
Maintenance
16.   The mission asked NRA to implement the standard maintenance strategy at
the field DD level (as far as possible), to ensure better consistency when
preparing initial annual maintenance estimates.
17.   During 1995/96 GOP allocated only Rs 475 m to NRA for maintenance,
against the agency's request for Rs 1554 m. The allocation is barely 5% above
last year's figure and represents a reduction in real terms. Inadequate
maintenance allocations by GOP continue to remain a major issue in the highway
subsector. This issue will be addressed directly in the proposed Highway
Rehabilitation Project.
Studies.
Axle Load Study.
18.   The axle load survey was conducted by the National Transport Research
Centre (NTRC) at 30 stations on the National Highway network between March and
September 1994 and the final report was issued in July 1995. The findings of
the survey are alarming. The survey finds that there has been a significant
increase in vehicle axle loads since 1982. The proportion of commercial
(         vehicles to total traffic ranges from 6% to 76%, with an average of 35%. Two
axle and three axle vehicles now account for 69% and 21% of the total
commercial traffic. This compares with a share of 96% and 1% respectively in
1982, and confirms the significant increase in the use of multi-axle vehicles
observed in recent years. About 88% of the rear axle loads surveyed exceed 8
tons, 74% exceed 10 tons and 43% exceed 12 tons. The average damaging effect
on pavements as measured by the equivalent standard axle (ESA) factor for a
two-axle truck has increased by almost 40% (up from 3.37 in 1982 to 4.67 in
1994). Since the damaging effect of axles exceeding 8 tonnes increases by the
power of four, the consequences in terms of the costs of pavement construction
and maintenance are disturbing. Following completion of this survey, NRA are
currently identifying the a) costs to the economy of this continued
overloading and b) the optimum axle load appropriate to conditions in
Pakistan. The Terms of Reference for the optimum axle load identification
study would be agreed with the Bank, and this work will be completed by
January 31, 1996. The Secretary, Ministry of Communications informed the
mission that the government expects to introduce new legislation (the National
Highway Safety Act) before the end of the calender year that will provide the
government legal authority to check and control vehicle overloading.
Contracting Industry Study.
19.   Only one proposal for the study was received on September 30, 1995. The
proposal is now under review by a committee and NHA's recommendations will be
sent to the Bank-by-Nov. 30, 1995. If the proposal is found unsatisfactory,
NHA would consider re-inviting proposals from short-listed firms. In view of
the FHP loan closing date; the mission indicated its no objection to NRA
, _..               .



6
financing expenditures related to this study beyond December 1995 from the
ongoing Transport Sector Project.
Road User Charges/Resource Generation Study.
20.   NRA awarded this study to a local Consultant in October 1994, following
clearance of the TOR and the draft Consultant's Contract by the Bank. An
Inception Report and the draft BOT policy has been reviewed and commented on
by the Bank. The overall duration of the study was to be seven months, but the
study is now six months late. The Bank has been informed that NHA and the
Consultant have agreed on a revised schedule to complete this work by December
1995. The findings of the study are expected to provide important inputs into
the preparation of the proposed Highway Rehabilitation Project.
Composite Schedule of Rates (CSR).
21.   The updating of the CSR has been completed by SAMPAK Consultants, the
consultant who prepared the original CSR. NHA has now agreed with the
consultants to train six NHA staff to operate the computer software package so
that the CSR can be updated by NHA whenever any of the indices related to
costs of labor, equipment and materials change. The mission was informed that
NRA is using the CSR to prepare construction and maintenance cost estimates
and to check the bids received for civil works.
Reallocations/Special Account and Disbursements.
22.   An amount of US$ 147.26 m has been disbursed as of September 30, 1995.
In response to NHA's request, the Loan has been reallocated between individual
categories, to fully utilize loan proceeds by the closing date. Recoveries
from NRA's Special Account (SA) are continuing in anticipation of the
approaching closing date and a sum of US$ 858,587 remains to be recovered. A
review of the SA by the mission indicates that NHA has withdrawn a sum of
about US$ 860,000 for ineligible expenditures. At the wrap-up meeting it was
agreed that NHA would either deposit this amount back into the SA, or provide
equivalent documentation for eligible expenditures incurred from its own
resources.
23.   The mission advised NHA that, following loan closure on December 31,
1995, the Bank will continue to honor withdrawal applications for expenditures
incurred (payments m2ade or payments due for goods, works and services which
have been provided prior to the closing date) which are received at the World
Bank, not later than four months after the closing date.
Audit Report.
24.   The legal agreement requires that the Borrower furnish to the Bank by
December 31 of each year, a certified copy of the audit report covering the
- -records-and-accounts in -respect of the Project (including the Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) and the operation of the Special Account) for the year,
prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. NHA confirmed that
the-audit report for 1994/95 will be submitted to the Bank before this date.
Project Management Cell (PMC).
25.   The PMC consultant's contract services expired at end December 1994 and
the monitoring and cost control functions in the PMC are now being performed



*      ~~7
by NRA staff under the General Manager (Construction). The mission expressed
concern that the PMC consultant Advisor's Final Report was not yet available.
NRA has contacted the Consultant's Head Office to expedite completion of this
report.
Transfer of Completed Works
26.   The assets and facilities constructed under the project, consisting
primarily of the improved road network, have been identified and listed in
Attachment 3. The Taking-Over (Substantial Completion) Certificate has been
issued for most of the contracts and the Defects Liability (Maintenance)
Period has expired on a number of these contracts. However, to date, Defects
Liability (Maintenance) Certificates have been issued for only three
contracts. Several of the completed contracts (e.g. 6a, b; 7b etc.) have yet
to be handed over to the NHA maintenance division. A committee has been
established by NHA to undertake this function. The committee headed by
General Manager (Inspection) and consisting of representatives from regional
offices and headquarters has been charged with the responsibility of ensuring
that all contract close-out procedures are carried out prior to recommending
issuance of a Defects Liability (Maintenance) Certificate. The mission
requested NHA to provide the Bank by November 30, 1995, a schedule for the
issuance of outstanding Defects Liability Certificates, and to ensure prompt
handing over of completed/improved roads to the NRA maintenance division.
Project Implementation Completion Report
27.   As part of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) preparation, NRA
is required to produce an acceptable Operation and maintenance plan that
ensures continued operation of the project works/facilities in accordance with
their operational specifications and sound engineering practices. The action
plan includes: (i) the required institutional arrangements, staffing needs,
and target dates by which these will be in place; (ii) estimates of the
additional operation and maintenance (O&M) costs, the source of funding, and
the manner in which funding will be phased into the maintenance schedule; and
(iii) the key physical, operational and financial indicators for monitoring
the performance of these assets and assessing their development impact.
28.   NRA provided the mission a draft of the operation plan at the wrap-up
(Attachment 4). The Bank will review the draft and provide any comments to NRA
following completion of the mission. It was agreed that NRA will finalize and
implement the operation plan following receipt of the Bank's comments.
29.   During the December 1994 mission, the Bank provided NRA the requirements
for the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) that has to be prepared on the
project closure. As part of the ICR procedures, the borrower is required to
submit its own evaluation report on project implementation and operation, the
ensuing costs and benefits, the performance of GOP and the Bank on their
..respective.obligations.under the loan agreement, the extent to which the
purposes of the loan were achieved and the lessons learned.  The mission has
explained these requirements to NRA for preparing its contribution to the ICR
process.
30.   To enable Bank staff to complete and distribute the ICR to the Bank's
Board within six months of the closing date, the mission proposed the
following schedule for ICR preparation which was confirmed by NHA at the wrap-
up meeting:



8
a) NHA to provide input/data requested by the
mission for the ICR (including traffic data,
final contract completion costs etc.):                     Jan 15, 1996
b) IDA's Draft ICR to borrower for conmments:                 Feb 29, 1996
c) Borrower completes its evaluation of project
implementation and transmits it to the Bank, with
a Summary:                                                 Feb 29, 1996
d) Borrower's comments on Bank's Draft ICR:                   Mar 31, 1996
e) Task Manager revises text to reflect comments and
prepares grey cover ICR:                                   Apr 30, 1996
Agreed Actions
31.   The following is a summary of Actions required on the FHP:
a)    NHA/GOP to provide additional counterpart allocations to
expeditiously complete the remaining works and to fully utilize
the remaining loan amount (Par. 3).
b)    Complete Optimum Axle Load Identification Study by Jan. 31, 1996
(Par. 18).
c)    GOP to introduce new legislation by Dec. 31, 1995 to check and
control vehicle overloading (Par. 18).
d)    Send NHA's evaluation report on the Contracting Industry Study to
the Bank by Nov.30, 1995 (Par. 19).
e)    Complete Resource Generation Study report by Dec.31, 1995 (Par.
20).
f)    Immediately resolve the matter related to withdrawals from the SA
for ineligible expenditures (Par. 22).
g)    Provide the Bank a copy of the audited Project Accounts for 94/95
by Dec. 31, 1995 (Par. 24).
h)    Expedite completion of the PMC Consultant's Final Report by
Dec.31, 1995 (Par. 25).
i)    Provide the Bank by Nov.30, 1995, a firm schedule for issuance of
outstanding Defect Liability (Maintenance) Certificates; ensure
prompt take-over by Maintenance Wing of completed works (Par. 26).
j)    Provide input/data required by the mission by Jan.15, 1996 for
preparation of the ICR (Par. 30).



9
II. TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT (Ln 3241-PAR)
(Aide Memoire No. 11)
1.    NHA is being assisted under the Transport Sector Project (TSP) in
reorganizing the Authority to a size, structure and level of professional
competence reflecting its responsibilities; and in the improvement of sections
of the national road network which are being now beyond normal Routine and
Periodic Maintenance. The Maintenance Backlog Reduction Program (MBRP) covers
those road sections which have deteriorated to a point where they require
reconstruction, rehabilitation or major improvement to return them to a
maintainable condition. The Resurfacing and Strengthening Program (RSP) is
intended to prevent the further deterioration of road pavements by providing
surface treatments or overlays.
2.    Although expenditures incurred on the RSP and minor MBRP components have
slowed somewhat since the last mission, the project is progressing generally
satisfactorily. However, Contract MBRP 7005 (Wadh-Surab) experienced
substantial flood damage during the unprecedented rains and floods in
Balochistan in June 1995. NHA has indicated to the mission that because of the
time needed to complete the additional works arising from this damage, GOP
will formally request the Bank for a one year extension of the closing date to
June 30, 1997. For the Bank to consider such a request, NHA should provide:
i)    a comprehensive consultants report on the flood event;
ii)   details of the resulting additional works including engineers estimates
of costs and the proposed implementation arrangements and schedule; and
iii) a financing plan and documentation to confirm the availability of
required counterpart funds.
NHA confirmed that this information would be provided by December 31, 1995.
3.    Most of the Actions Agreed during the previous mission have been carried
out. However, actions related to contract management matters, and adoption of
policies and procedures remain to be satisfactorily addressed. In addition the
mission drew NHA's attention to the urgent need to comply with the legal
covenants regarding: i) submission of agency audits, and ii) provision of
adequate counterpart funds. These are discussed further below.



10
Project Costs.
4.    The overall project financial position as of mid October 1995 is
summarized below.
Total (m PRs)                IBRD (m USS)
Dec. 14, 94  Oct.19, 95   Dec. 14, 94 | Oct.19, 95
Project Cost                       2,969                         77.5
(SAR Estimate)
Current Compl Cost      4,024         3,952          77.5          77.5
Total Commitments       3,199         3,952          63.1 (81%)    77.5 (100%)
Under Preparation       553            ---           8.05(10%)      ----
Total Expenditures      2,385 (59%)   2,869 (72%)   47.3 (61%)    55.5 (72%)
Cost of Bal of Work    1,639          1,083          30.1 (39%)    22.0 (28%)
IBRD Disbursement                                    39.8 (51%)    55.0 (71%)
Project Expenditure and Counterpart Funding
5.    Attachment 5 gives details of the project expenditures and counterpart
funding up to October 1995. An amount of Rs 500 m. (incl. Rs. 190 m. GOP
share) were allocated for TSP during FY95/96. Total expenditures of Rs. 95 m.
(incl. Rs. 36 m GOP share) were reported on the project during the current FY.
Project expenditures since Dec 1994 amount to about Rs 480 m indicating an
average monthly turnover of Rs 48 m. In addition, payments of about Rs. 130 m
on the major Wadh-Surab contract are expected shortly. Completion of the
balance works amounting to Rs 1083 m3, it will require additional counterpart
funds of Rs 436 m. The mission estimates that for the balance works to be
completed by the June 1996 closing date, total FY 95/96 allocations to the
project need to be doubled to about Rs 1000 m (incl. Rs 400 m as GOP share).
At the wrap-up meeting NRA confirmed that the required allocations will be
provided to ensure uninterrupted implementation of the project.
Civil Works.
MBRP and RSP Contracts.
6.    The physical achievements under the RSP and MBRP program have been
substantial. About 418.5 Km of the national highways in the four provinces
(150 Km on the N-5) have been taken up for repaving and strengthening under
--the-RSP--Rounds- I, II,-III and IV contracts and about 301 Km are being
rehabilitated under the MBRP Rounds I, II and IIIA contracts. In addition, 13
new bridges are being built and 16 other drainage related structures are being
rehabilitated.
Excluding 1995 Flood Damages.



11
7.    NHA informed the mission that 34 MBRP (LCB) contracts valued at Rs.612
million have been awarded, of which 10 have been completed and the rest are in
progress. Overall progress on the minor MBRP program is about 60%. The two
major MBRP (ICB) contracts are now 85% complete. These are discussed
separately below. A total of 76 RSP contracts valued at Rs. 934 million have
been awarded, including the 17 related to the 1992 flood damage. Of these, 52
RSP contracts have been completed and the rest are ongoing. Progress on the.
RSP program is now 81%.
8.    RSP and minor MBRP contract expenditures since Dec 1994 amount to about
Rs 172 m only, indicating a substantial slowing down in the previous pace of
implementation of the program. To complete the balance work remaining on these
programs by June 1996 requires a doubling of the recent pace of progress.
9.    The mission noted with concern that four contracts in RSP Round III and
another tour in Round IIIA have encountered significant completion delays (of
the order of six months). Also two of the MBRP Round II contracts (7006 and
7012) are reportedly still in progress although the completion dates expired
over 15 months ago. Causes for delayed completion apparently include a
combination of poor contractor performance, and cumbersome contract
administration and payment procedures. The mission has requested NHA to
expedite any pending contractual administration decisions, closely scrutinize
the minor MBRP/RSP contract portfolio and promptly apply contractual remedies
in case of non-performing contractors, including termination if appropriate.
10.   Attachment 5 shows balance work remaining to be completed on the ongoing
RSP contracts. The mission noted that pace of implementation of some of the
earlier contracts needs to be substantially increased to achieve completion by
June 1996. NHA also needs to ensure timely completion of the recently awarded
RSP Round IV and MBRP IIIA contracts. NHA has been requested to provide the
Bank with a report by November 30, 1995, on the actions taken in regard to the
above matters. It was agreed that future TSP monthly progress reports would
flag contracts with significant delays, and indicate remedial actions.
Major MBRP Projects.
11.   Two major MBRP contracts have been awarded following ICB procedures.
Contract MBRP - 7004 for the construction of an additional carriageway on a 30
Km section of the N-5 between Sahiwal and Okara was awarded to ECLC (PVT) Ltd.
(Pakistan). Work started in July 1992. The original contract completion date
of July 19, 1994 has now been extended three times to December 31, 1995.
Progress is only about 57%. Despite NRA's efforts to expedite completion by
establishing a jointly managed escrow account, progress continues to fall
behind. The Supervisory consultant has estimated that at least a further 12
months are needed to complete the contract. The mission agrees that this
contract is unlikely to be completed by June 1996 under the present
arrangements. NRA assured the mission that the contract is being closely
monitored, and agreed that contractual remedies would be applied if progress
of about 70% of the contract value is not achieved by December 1995. The
mission strongly recommends that a detailed cash flow and direct cost analysis
be done to ascertain whether the amount remaining in the contract is
sufficient to cover actual costs to complete the works under the escrow
arrangement.
12.   Supervision is now being done by NESPAK following the completion of the
services provided by Kampsax on December 31, 1994. NESPAK is presently the
Engineer on the contract, however their role as Engineer is being compromised,



12
and they appear to have been bypassed on a number of contractual matters,
including the latest decision on time extension. The mission requested NHA to
review this matter, and to clarify the future role of the Consultant.
13.   Contract MBRP 7005 for the rehabilitation of about 160 Km of the N-25
between Wadh and Surab was awarded to M/S Joannou & Paraskevaides (Overseas)
Ltd. (Cyprus) in June 1992. Progress is estimated at about 90%. About 147 Km
of the road has now been opened to traffic and about 11 Km remain. Substantial
completion (excluding 1995 flood damages) is expected by early December 1995.
14.   During the site visit the mission inspected the works, including the
recent flood damages particularly the major damage locations. Preliminary
details of the flood damage are contained in the July and August 1995 monthly
progress reports. Consultants have been appointed by NHA to re-examine the
adequacy of the cross drainage structures. They are currently preparing a
detailed hydrological analysis of the related catchments. Preliminary findings
indicate that additional culverts, bridges and protective works will be
needed. Initial estimates provided to the mission are as follows:
a)    Flood damage restoration work:        Rs  60 m
b)    Four major bridge works:              Rs 155 m
(Km. 356, 410, 457 and 469)
c)    Additional culverts and protective  Rs 160 m
Total       Rs 375 m
These costs are currently being finalized by NHA. The designs (including
hydrological analysis) and engineer's estimates for items (a) and (b) are
expected to be available by Nov. 30, 1995 and for (c) by Jan 31, 1996.
15.   The mission noted that at two bridge locations, Km 356 and Km 457, it
may be possible to realign the road to avoid completely the river channels now
causing the problems. Such realignments could be less costly than the bridge
solutions being considered and would solve permanently the present drainage
problem at these two locations, in addition to avoiding heavy maintenance
costs in future. NHA agreed to do a comparative analysis on the proposals for
these two locations in order to identify the best engineering and most cost
effective solutions for the problems before the designs are finalized.
16.   The construction is being supervised by Kampsax (Denmark) in association
with A. A. Associates (Pakistan). Kampsax are providing an expatriate CRE at
the site. Although NHA has designated Kampsax as the "Engineer', the firm had
refused to accept this role from January 1995 citing their agreement with NHA
under Addendum No.6. NHA confirmed that this matter has now been mutually
resolved, and Kampsax had agreed to accept the role of the "Engineer" under
Addendum No.7.
17.   The-mission noted with concern that a number of contract administration
related-issues remain unattended to-on this contract. During the field visit
the -mission's attention was drawn to the following: (i) Confusion about who is
the "Engineer" on the contract; (ii) What are the powers of the Engineer?;
(iii) De.lays rin payment of Interim payment certificates (IPCs) - four IPCs
currently outstanding, two for more than sixty days; (iv) Delays in issuing
Certificates of Substantial Completion - one is outstanding for the past 18
month;---(v)-Delays in finalizing extensions of Contract Period; (vi) Delays in
the issuing of Variation orders; and (vii) Multiple often conflicting
instructions-from various NHA staff, as the Employer's representatives. These
matters have been brought to the attention of NRA senior management, and the



13
mission has been assured that necessary clarifications on the above will
issued to all concerned by Nov. 30, 1995 and a copy provided to the Bank for
information. The mission expects that such confusion will be avoided in
future, when NHA adopts and implements the Policies and Procedures and
Construction Administration Manuals (Ref. para 29 below).
18.   The contract for KOSHAK Bridge  was started in April 1993 and was
scheduled for completion by December 1994. The bridge structures and approach
embankments have now been completed. Agreement has been reached that J & P,
the main road contractor will complete the pavement work as a subcontractor.
The 1995 monsoon floods damaged certain sections of the bridge approaches.
These have now been repaired by the contractor. The existing right Guidebund
is being extended by about 300m under a variation to the contract, to minimize
the risk of similar damage during future floods. The consultants, A. A.
Associates are supervising the work.
Accounting Assistance and Financial System Strenathening.
19.   The Accounting Assistance Scheme (Phase 1) is well under way, the
consultants having mobilized their team in July 1995. The assignment has two
main objectives: i) the preparation of financial statements for the years
ended 30 June 1993, 1994 and 1995; and ii) the development and implementation
of revised accounting policies and a revised system using a standard general
accounting computer package.
20.   The information required for compiling the financial statements are not
readily present at NHA's Head Office. The consultants have developed standard
formats for collection of required information which were circulated by NHA to
all locations. However no response has been received to date. It was agreed
that NHA would take steps to expedite the provision of information which
should be made available to the consultants no later than November 21, 1995.
As a result of the lack of response, the consultants have been unable to
commit a firm schedule for the preparation of financial statements. It was
agreed that a detailed review of the status of information preparation would
be carried out and a detailed schedule provided to the Bank by November 30,
1995.
21.   Progress on the second aspect is satisfactory.  Revised accounting
guidelines and procedures have been developed and are under implementation, as
is the standard accounting system at the Head Office. This will be a
comprehensive system, in accordance with modern international accounting
standards, that also caters for all subsidiary information required by other
government agencies.
Disbursements, Special Account and Reallocation
22.   A total of US$ 53.5 m has been disbursed on the Highway component, as of
September 30, 1995. However, the mission's review indicates that NHA has not
managed the SA on this project in accordance with the agreed procedures. A
number of payments have been made by the NHA, without no objection from the
Bank. A sum of USS 413,439 remains to be refunded to the SA by NHA on account
of the ineligible expenditures. The mission requested immediate action on this
matter.
23.   Since the closing date for this project is June 30, 1996, the normal
recovery of the SA would start from January next. The total amount to be
recovered is currently US$ 6,878,466.



14
24.   The Bank has recently received a request from EAD for the reallocation
of US$ 20 m from the unutilized railway component of the TSP, to the MBRP
program. This request was broadly discussed with NHA during the mission. NHA
has been asked to provide a detailed proposal for utilization of the
reallocation proceeds in accordance with the original project objectives, and
confirmation about the availability of necessary counterpart funds, for the
Bank to respond to this request.
TSP Audits:
25.   The Loan Agreement requires that NHA furnish to the Bank by December 31
of each year certified copies of its financial statements for the year
(including records and accounts of its Special Account) duly audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. NHA confirmed that audited
project accounts for FY94/95 will be provided to the Bank by this date. Also
substantial progress has been made under the guidance of NHA Financial
Adviser, towards developing auditable agency accounts. NHA's consolidated
financial statements from July 1990 to June 1995 have recently been prepared.
Based on these documents, the Accounting Assistance Study consultants will
carry out reconciliations and field verifications. These will then be
submitted for independent audit. In view of the substantial work that remains
to be done to finalize these accounts, the mission agreed with NHA that the
audited agency wide accounts would be submitted by March 31, 1996.
Institutional Strengthening of NHA.
26.   One of the principal objectives of the Transport Sector Project was to
assist in reorganizing the NHB (the predecessor to NHA) to a size, structure
and level of professional competence reflecting its responsibilities for the
planning, construction, maintenance, operation and administration of the
National Highway System. Annex 2.2 of the TSP Staff Appraisal Report spells
out the Action Plan for NHB Institutional Strengthening. Key elements of the
Plan included: a) Reorganization of NHA according to a functional Structure;
b) Introduction of Policies and Procedures appropriate to the new
organization; and c) Placement of the most competent and best qualified
persons available in key positions, in an open and transparent manner.
27.   The NHA was established through the NHA Act in 1991. However, progress
on the institutional strengthening measures agreed at project appraisal,
remained slow until this year. In early 1995, the National Highway Council
approved the NHA organizational structure, Service Rules, and Delegation of
Financial Powers. The majority of NHA staff who were previously working on
work-charge have now been regularized, and the Authority has issued job
descriptions for all approved posts in September. Promotion cases of General
Managers and staff in BS-1 to 16 have been finalized, while the remaining (BS
18, 19) are expected by end of November 1995. These developments have already
led to a visible improvement in general staff morale.
Policies & Procedures
28.   The mission's discussions with NHA central and regional staff, including
general managers, project directors, contractors and consultants, indicate
that serious bottlenecks remain in the area of construction and contract
administration. This is also borne out by frequent delays in payment of IPCs,
consultants bills, issuance of variation orders, Substantial Completion and
Maintenance Certificates, physical hand-over of project sites to contractors,



15
etc.  There is some confusion about the role and responsibility of the
"Engineer" and the "Employer" as defined in the contracts, and the role and
responsibility of the Project Directors, Regional General Managers and Central
NRA staff in regard to contract implementation. The delays in payments and
the release of retention moneys due to the contractors, carry the risk of
claims and resulting increases in contract cost. They also hurt NHA's
reputation and international standing as a major Employer of public works in
this region, and discourage the participation by good professional firms and
contractors in NHA's future works as well as potential private investors in
the highway sub-sector.
29.   In order to address the above longstanding concerns, it was agreed
during the Feb 1994 mission that NHA would set up a committee to review the
Policy and Procedures Manual and Construction Administration Manual prepared
by NHA's consultants following a major study in 1990, adapt them as necessary
in light of current NHA structure, and arrange for their adoption by April
1994. This target date was revised to March 1995 during the previous
supervision mission. There has been some further slippage, but the mission was
pleased to learn that Planning, Finance and Operations have now completed
their review of the Policy and Procedures Manual, and a consolidated draft of
the updated Manual (with changes highlighted) will be provided to the Bank by
November 30, 1995. The manual would be adopted by December 31, 1995. NRA's
review of the Construction Administration Manual remains to be undertaken. It
was agreed that an updated version of this manual would be provided to the
Bank by January 30, 1996 and that NRA will arrange seminars at Islamabad, and
in the regions during the first half of 1996 to disseminate the procedures and
responsibilities detailed in these two manuals, following their adoption.
30. The mission asked NRHA to ensure that recent developments, including the
requirements of the Bank's revised (Jan 1995) Procurement Guidelines and
latest Standard Bidding Documents are reflected in the revised manuals. NHA
agreed to constitute a committee charged with reviewing and updating these
manuals at regular intervals to ensure that they remain current with new
developments. The committee would be headed by Member Administration.
31.   The present level of office and field review of the consultants' designs
by NHA also needs substantial strengthening. Some of the designs examined by
the mission were clearly inadequate and not to the professional standards
needed for such important investments. The mission was informed that NHA is
currently in the process of inducting additional staff with appropriate design
background and experience into its Planning Wing for this purpose.
32.   The mission also suggest that NRA consider instituting a system whereby
representatives from Planning, Construction and Maintenance jointly sign-off
on a consultants design/drawings before these are issued for construct;on.
This will minimize the risk of subsequent changes/variations during
construction, facilitate takeover of the completed works by maintenance staff
on completion, and most importantly provide a feedback mechanism for
incorporating the lessons learned during project implementation into future
projects.
Technical Assistance
33.   NHA and the Bank have held discussions during the past several months on
various forms of Technical Assistance, particularly with reference to
facilitating Private Sector Participation in the highway sector. The Bank has
offered to finance a long term local consultant under the project, to work as



16
a private sector finance advisor within NHA's Private Sector Finance Cell. NHA
has recently advertised for a suitable candidate for this position. In
addition the Bank has offered to provide international experts/ consultants to
assist in NRA's PS initiatives, possibly financed through Trust Funds (TF).
34.   During the mission, the Chairman NRA requested the Bank for: i) short-
term expert assistance in connection with its negotiations with a private
developer for the Implementation Agreement for the Karachi Northern Bypass,
where a LOI has already been issued; and ii) developing suitable RFP documents
for inviting private concessionaires to bid for operation of the Lahore-
Islamabad Motorway project, which is scheduled for completion by June 1997.
35. At the wrap-up meeting NHRA provided the mission a copy of the basic
project proposal for the Northern Bypass. The mission indicated that it would
consult with Bank headquarters to see how appropriate short-term expert
inputs/advice can best be provided to NHA. With regard to the Lahore-
Islamabad Motorway, further discussions will be held with NHA staff, to
develop draft TOR for NHA's review and agreement, before a Trust Fund request
can be processed possibly in March/April 1996.
Agreed Actions
36.   The following is a summary of Actions required on the TSP:
a)    Provide the Bank by Dec.31, 1995, required documentation in support of
the request for an extension of the loan closing date (Par. 2).
b)    Increase the allocation of counterpart funds to the project during the
current FY to required levels (Par. 5).
c)    Provide a report to the Bank by Nov.30, 1995, on the actions taken to
expedite the pace of implementation of the RSP/minor MBRP program (Par.
10).
d)    Apply contractual remedies on Contract MBRP 7004 (Sahiwal-Okara), if
satisfactory progress is not achieved by December 31, 1995 (Par. 11).
e)    Clarify the contractual role of the supervisory consultant (NESP.-K) or
Contract MBRP 7004, by Nov.30, 1995 (Par. 12).
f)    On contract 7005 (Wad-Surab) clarify the contractual role and powers of
the supervisory consultant, and clear all contract administration
decisions and payments pending with the Employer by Nov. 30, 1995, wits
a copy to the Bank (Par. 17).
g)    Provide missing financial information required by the Accounting
Assistance consultants from the Regions by Nov. 21, 1995; provide a firm
schedule of preparation of financial statements to the Bank by Nov. 30,
1995 (Par. 20).
h)    Immediately refund or provide alternate documentation for the amount
withdrawn from the SA on account of ineligible expenditures (Par. 22).
i)    Provide the Bank a detailed proposal for the utilization of the proposed
reallocation proceeds from the Railway component by Dec.31, 1995 (Par.
24).
j)    Provide the Bank audited 94/95 TSP project accounts by Dec.31, 1995; and
audited NRA agency-wide accounts and financial statements for the period
1990/95 by Mar.31,1996 (Par. 25).
k)    Adopt the NXA Policies and Procedures manual by Dec.31, 1995; and the
Construction Administration Manual by Jan 30, 1996. Arrange seminars to
disseminate the contents of these manuals by Jun.30, 1996 (Par. 29).



17
III. PROPOSED HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.    The mission discussed the draft concept paper for the proposed Highway
Rehabilitation Project (Attachment 6) with the officials of the National
Highway Authority, and the ministries of Planning, Finance, Communications and
the Economic Affairs Division. There was general agreement on the major sub-
sectoral issues raised in the paper, and the broad policy principles and
project components proposed for the future project. The mission also met with
the OECF Resident Representative to exchange views on the policy issues facing
the sector and to explore possible OECF interest in the proposed project.
2.    The NHA gave the mission a comprehensive technical presentation on the
current pavement condition of the N-5 existing carriageway (Attachment 7), and
an initial identification of the sections requiring reconstruction and
overlays. The presentation provided an impressive demonstration by NHA of the
usefulness and application of NHA's evolving Pavement Management System and of
the enhanced in-house capabilities and performance of the NHA staff. NKA's
presentation highlighted the distressing condition of the N-5 existing
carriageway pavement and showed that of the 1624 Km length surveyed about 1160
Km (71%) had a "Remaining Service Life" of less than 3 years. A full report of
the work done to date would be provided to the Bank by Dec.31, 1995.
3.    It was agreed that a bridge component will be added to NHA's list of
physical works, and this will be developed and refined during the course of
project preparation. The NHA requested the Bank to consider financing 70% of
the cost of rehabilitation and overlay works, in line with the existing MBR?
program. The mission explained that the overall size of the project and the
Bank's share of the physical works would be determined to fit the extent of
external financing and counterpart funds that are available.
4.    NHA has al-ready constituted a project preparation team for the proposed
project, and Mr. Uzair Fazil, GM(Maint) has been designated as the team
leader. Preparatory work would require financial, institutional and technical
studies which were broadly discussed with NHA. Detailed TOR for these studies
will be developed by NHA in consultation with the Bank during the next few
months. Some funds are available under the Transport Sector Project which may
initially be used to finance this preparatory work. NHA would consider use of
PPF funds for any additional financing that may be needed. The Bank would also
explore the possibility of identifying Trust Funds for some of the policy
related work.
5.    The mission discussed with NHA the Bank's project cycle and processing
requirements and agreed on a provisional project preparation and
implementation schedule (Attachment 8). The schedule indicates key steps both
in the Borrower's and the Bank's project cycle. The mission clarified that,
within the Bank, the final decision on the future processing of the project,
its scope and possible components, will be made following the I..itial
Executive Project Summary (IEPS) review meeting scheduled for January 1996.
6.    The Secretary, Ministry of Communications informed the mission that the
government expects to complete a large number of the ongoing NHA projects by
mid-1997. He confirmed the government's agreement to the principle of
introducing road user charges, and requested the Bank to advance the
processing schedule of the proposed project to the extent possible.



18
7.    The mission informed NHA that the following actions are necessary to
facilitate further processing of the project:
(i)   Completion of the Resource Mobilization Study. NRA should provide the
Bank with a copy of the draft final report by December 31, 1995.
(ii)  Adoption by NHA of the updated Policies and Procedures Manual by
December 31, 1995.
NAQ: \4HP\ANCCT95
(



HIGHWAY MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE
October 1995
ATTAC4EMNTS
1.   FIELD TRIP ITINERARY
2.   STATUS OF EXECUTION OF FHP SUB-PROJECTS
3.   TRANSFER SCHEDULE OF FHP COMPLETED WORKS
4.   FHP OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE PLAN
5.   TSP - FINANCIAL SUMMARY
6.   CONCEPT PAPER FOR PROPOSED HIGHWAY REHABILITATION
PROJECT
7.   NHA'S PRESENTATION ON N-5
8.   IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE  FOR PREPARATION OF  PROPOSED
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT.



Attachment 1
Field Trip Itinerary
October 1995 IBRD Highway Supervision/Identification Mission
Ln.2814:Fourth Highway Project,
Ln.3241:Transport Sector Project,
Mission Members:      N.Qureshi, B.Kennedy and H.Masood
Wed, Oct. 18          Travel Islamabad-Lahore by surface. Visit Contracts
Bb(i), 8b(ii) and 7a enroute.
Overnight Lahore
Thu, Oct.19           Travel Lahore-Multan by surface. Visit Contracts 6a,b and
MBRP 7004 enroute. Return Multan-Islamabad by air PK-388.
Sun, Oct 22           (Messrs. Qureshi and Kennedy)
Travel Islamabad-Quetta by air PK-325. Onwards Quetta-
Khuzdar by surface.
Overnight Khuzdar
Mon, Oct 23           Visit Contract MBRP 7005 and meet Supervisory
Consultants, Contractor's Reps and concerned NRA staff.
Overnight Khuzdar
Tue, Oct 24           Travel Khuzdar-Quetta by surface. At Quetta, meet GM
(Balochistan), visit NHA laboritary and some minor MBR?
sites. Depart Quetta-Lahore by air PK-322.
Overnight Lahore (Mr. Kennedy only}
Wed, Oct 25            (Messrs. Kennedy and Masood)
Meet GM(Punjab-N)and his Staff at the Regional office.
Return Lahore-Islamabad by surface.
NAQ: 4HPITN.DOC



V                                                                                                                   V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'
FOURTH IBRD HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                           1;?.
STATUS OF DISBURSEMENTS - 30 September, 1995
-                                                        _______________________________________________                                                          .S(Amount in Rs Mlion'
PAYMENTS                                 Additlonal Funds Required                    Reallocatkon
CATE.   DESCRIPTION                                                                  (Actuall                                     For Completion                          of IBRD Loan
Upt     Isl Sept 9o                      Cummulative                   Total        Rs.      U.S. S      Total
to        Alter                                           amour.l                            Cost           Total
SAR        PC-1    31-Aug.90   31-Dec-94   31 -Dec-94    TOTAL       GOP          IBRD     I             G.O.P    IBROD          (s)           Amount
1 __________ _       (AsR.s)     (as)       (AR)        (Rs)       (Rs)        (Rs)        (Rs)        (US S)        (10                   1         (7+10)          (US S)
I            2              3          3a          4           5          6           7           89                       10         I i        12          13              14
I        C5Civil Works    4.475.100  4,033.000   794(000   4.453.473   437.489    5.684.962   2.487.811     122.943        602        *188     3.357     6,286.962        126t.300
(S120.51
2       Equip. Anibul.       40.500     62.640                     .       -           .           .            .           . 
Recovery Veh. etc.
1S2.01
3        Constdtants        388.500    587.36   249.000    293.989      16.344      559.333      1.549       24.264       37 479       0       1.436      596 812          25.700
ServicesreTchnrcal
AssIstarnce
IS522.01
4        Unallocaled              .                 .          .           .           .           .            .
IS7.51
6.244                                639 48     488.00     4.79       6.863.77
5          Others           134.900    117.000              213.137     23.4C7      23C.634     23D .60        .         146.022    146.)22 |             382.626
(NHA Estab!ishment related)                                     I _I_                                                                  I 
TOTAL:        S152       5.039.00    4.800.00    1.04 00    4.960.60  I 477.300 j 6.4S0o90    2.725.94 *  147.21             785.50     634.02      4.79  7.266.40           S152.000
REMARKS:   Disbursement ratio for Civil Works up to 1 Sep: 1990Q - l , "W'.E. Lo:n - 4'"  C O.P0
I Sept. 1990ho31 tDc 19-'4 - 70-:, W.R. Loan- Ztio.   C) r Frn fl 1 .li!t!. ii          v-i d1 1 'flhl r[IIl-Vll ri vltrI51 . ' B Loai-401% G.O.P. or CivilVrsj .P Id  t
,.3 rtl
Dollar Rate:  1 US S       P.t i ail: Rspc.                                                                                                                            _
Zs



FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
CURRENT CONTRACTS
As of 30th September 1995
.____________________  _____________  _____________  ___________                                   A m ount  In   Rs   (M illorO
Amount to be
Amount paid                    paid against
against Work                   Work Done        Estimated
Estimated    done (Indluding    Escalation    (including V.Os  escalation on    Total amount   Value of Work to be
Description       Contract Value  V.Os + Taxes)   Amount Paid      + Taxes)      balance work      Payable      completed with Escalatlon
By 31-12-95   In 1996
Contract No. 2                . 450.001         404.54           23.94           45.58            3.39          49.00         49.00          0.00
I
Contract No. 7a                  590.001        475.09           62.52          115.00          20.00          135.00         85.00         50.00
Contract No. 8b-1 (Includes
Shahdara+V.O No.7)               931.001        785.321          67.051         146.00           ff001           0 61.00           _ 1510   10.00
Contract No. Bb-Il (Includes
V.0. No. 4)                      680.001_       654.05           65.45,          26.00      _   11.00           37.00    _ 31.00             6.00
Minor Contracts, Drainage                                                             ;
Etc.                             180.0C          30.271           0.00'         150.001           0.00         150.00         30.001       120.00
____________________  2,83100 !     2,3498670
1TOTAL:                    _2,831                 9.271         218.96         482.581          49.39         532.001    346.00          186.00
Note:         The amount of Rs       532.000  million is required to complete all civil work of FHP contracts
As ol 30th September 1995
'ti
0



FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                          JanuaryI5th,93           Rso
ANNUAL PHASING OF CIVIL WORKS                                         Staut ol Loan            DedlOor 31s1. 95
Paybac_____            __
SECTION           Length  Cont   Cost I198780  1988-89                   198090 1  1990-91      1991-92     1992-93    1993-94     1994-95      g
(Km!   RQ,.             ~~~~njre  JAODFA   AONJ FU,MAIiJSNJMM  AOOF A          MIP  AMAOt rA  JASOND JMAI JAU        N
KARACHI-HYDERA9Ao I        68      1    5i25 Moi                                        1t|tI444  J1.44 jJ^loNnlJlu^        14 l'l--I- -NnllS^ 'l'' >J  "    iW F
KARACIHNHYDERABAD I1   67          2 65  Months_SECA__ ;           __                   -           -
I - 477 ~     ~          ~- 
18 Months                                                               -     l
HYDERABAD-HALA             -3A 3Months  _   f =_I|l  
MIANCHANNU-CHAK BEIHNI   39.2    6A   4A Mo22   Hkusnl                       I - .    =_                                =                          _    |
CHAK BEHNI-SAHIWAL        41.4    6B   49 Month     i=
GUJRANWALA-CHENAB         48.7    7A   9676  Nazir & Co.'_
CHENAB-KHARIAN            44.5    79             NaziR. b        Co  '                                                                              -
BRIDGES 7A  73            -       $A    Rs 317_____r -b                                                        I                                  --
.          ~~~~~49 Morhsh Ru____
OUJRANWALA.JHELUM         88.4   8B    48 iod 11nth                                                                         ___e=___ R  .
JHELUM - RAWALPINDI       60.70   8B-1  48 Months                _    __                            ________
HARO BRIDGE                -      8001  17 MonthY I Q                                                                                                      .
RYKCANALRIOGOE             0.7    801 I uMonth.       _                                                              ._   _.
MINCHINABAD CANAL BR.    0.7    8012  15 MonIh                                _         ._ _
MINOR SCHEMES              -      _              Moh VARiOULi
________________________      ~~48   M orlAhs _ _ _      __ _ _ __   _ _ __ _   __ _ _ _
UiNOR CONTRACTS        1 3               Rs,2   VARiOUS  
Sb, ?.          lOo rib
ORIGINAL PC-1 Finish Date
TOTAL ALL CONTRACTS Rs.6,t616                                          (Dec- 311 992)
iF40TE,
LEGEND                                                   All amosints In Millions ol R
~ ORIGINAL COMPLETION                                        FHP Contracts 3b, 3c. 4 and 5
AC1 UAL PROGRESS                                             Total Length 182 Km MiNion have been dropped from ihe Project.
PHASE I CONTRACTS- START DATE: November 1987                 * Cost included In Minor Schemnes.                                                        tt
109
PHASE i1 CONTRACTS - START DATE: June 1989                                                                                                             w ::-
El
lMfMMMMM iPiiASE til CONTRACTS STAnI DATE: Novenmer 1991                                                                     September 1995                        0O0
ci-
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



..  .
Pig~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pr
'.  "
..dg.
f 5                 CHINA
li'::N    )         <~~~~~~~~1M
IRA~N      _                 .1
9          rf           --tS 
I~~~~..RABIN SE                                                                                                           rt- 
ARjA7EN t;EA            i                 | ~~~~~~~~~~~Minor Contracts Cm |' 



/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
FOURTH IBRD HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                    ANNEXURE - AM2)
Schedule of Transfer of Completed Work to NHA
Completion                                               Date Of-   Completion of Date of taking  Sauso         Onof Status ofStuso
Con. Length  Certificate            Section            % Completed   Substantial    Defects A    over by NiiA   Issuance    Takingt over  SFtinul o    S     iun     Remarks
No.  (Kmin       No.                                                 Completion     Laity       Maltansasrbc   Maiteneance    b   H       cons         Daig
Period       Division    Certificate     yN         Acuns        Daig
(1)   (2)        (3)                 (4)                  (5)           (6)           (7)          (8)            (9)         (')         (I")          (12)         (13)
(a) Km 49.583                                                           No        Submitted toCoped
1 S 68       1Karochi-Hyderbad I                  100%      t81: 0K 1 Jan.   27 Nov 91    08-Jun-91      Issued     Taken over  outstanding            lo  Completd
91 I      _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _                                 Claims
(b) Km 13 lo
2                                                  49583: 12     08 Apr. 92    19-Oct-91      Issued
Oct.  9   I _ _  _ _ _   _ _  _ _ _
(c) Works ol VC
3                                                5 1-22: 15 Nov.  12-May-92    22-Nov-91      Issued
_Repair
Work for
Aug. 1994 Bul                            irwestigalion Investigation Investigation for defect &
certificate not            Delayed duie to for teuture of for (aittr f failurnestofapn ojec  tiabitity is
2     67         1           Karachi-Hyderabad 11       98.02%     24 Feb. 1994  issued duo to   03/03/1994    unfulfilled   project     project  taiture o projec   under
unfullilled                obligation    section Is In  section is in  section is in   progress
obtgations                                progress    progfess      progress     and be
comnpleted
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                   by  D ec.y 9 5
No       Submitted to
3a     46         1            Hydernbad-Hala            100%       15 Jan 1991   19 Feb. 1992    Jan.91        Issued      22 Feb. 92   outstanding     NA        Completed
(Date of issue)    ______   ______ClaimsNH
A45t436615689                                                         I Year (15-5- Under Process              In Progress  In Progress   In Progress 
6a    39.2  A54316669    Mianchannu-Chak BeniN           100%        15-May-93        94)      ____________   __________
6b    414  A4314306168b       Chak Behni-Shwal              %        1-May-93    IYear(-5-  Under Process                  In Progress  In Progress   In Progress
A3493066b       CakBh-hia                   0%         1My-3            94)      _________________ _____
Km 28 to
/a    48.7       1      28 *0001o 48.025                9349%         40+025       30-Dec-95    In Progress                To be taken                  Under       Defects
1/24/1994                                              over after               preparabon    liability
Kmn 25+900 to                                          completion of                           period has
2      25+900 to 28.000                              28+000      02-Nov-95                                  medcian                                 been
_________________________       ~~~~11/3/1994    _____                                drainage and                             extended
Kim 20+500 to                                            ancillary
3      20+500 to 25+900                             2/ 900       02-Dec-95                                  Works                                tO 30/12195
______ _____  21311994   _ _  _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _
OQ 9
eh 
I-,



FOURTH IBRD HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                    ANNEXURE - A(2)
Schedule of Transfer of Completed Work to NHA
Completion                                               Date of    Completion of Date of taking    Status of   Date of     Status of    Status of
ConLCeti LerSeton%  omleed Susantial    Defects &    over by NHA   Issw~ince of  Taking-over    Finat                                              Completion    lemnarks
No.  (Kmn)       No.                                                 Completion     Liabilit    Mint c   Maintenanc          by NHA      Accounts    Drawings
Period       Division     Certificate
(I)   (2)        (3)                 (4)                  (5)           (6)           (7)           (8)          (9)          (10)         (")           (12)        (13)
Km 5 to 8+800,
7a               4       5+000 to 8+800                    *9+200to                                                                                               l o complete
(Cont)                                                                 12+225 &                                                                                     rectificaton
_2+525
to 20+500
9+200 lo 12+225                             2/28/1 995
12+525 to 20+500
Drawings and Maintenanc
28 Feb 92b 4/41t994 (Dingo                To be taken              all documents e certificate
7b   44.538  I  All Works except  ~      0~%       28 Feb. 92 & 4419  Dn
7b   44.538       t            All Works except         tOOY6        4 hl  93   bridge slopes lo                             over by   Under Proces  submitted by  hes Issued
MDT.93 be rectified still)                         30-11-95                 FFL to NHA     by the
Lahore     Engineer
49+391 to 50+200
60+600 to 65+200
73+950 to 79+500
2      For above reanchs
Dinga Slopes rectification is in
progress                                                                         --|                                      |       __
To be taken Partial linal
8a     -                       Bridges on 7a & 7b        100tY       30 Apr. 93    30 Oct. 93    30/11/1995      Issued    over by 30-11 Account hes   Completed    All. Maint
95       been done                 Certificate
Jhoi'im-Kharian
8bl  38.56               Gutranwala-Jhelum (EC Portion)    81.60%   10.4 Km Aug.   Aug. 1994     14/08/1993    In Progress    Work in                                 To be
- t993                                                                                 _     compleled
PA rt
kq rt
0 I



FOURTH IBRD HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                    ANNEXURE - A(2)
Schedule of Transfer of Completed Work to NHA
Completion                                               Date of    Completion of Date oi taking    Status of   Date of    Status of     Status of
ConL Length  Certificate            Section            % Completed   Substantial    Dfcs&        oe  yNA tsjneo   Taking-over    Final                 Completion   Remarks
No.  (Kin)                          Son                 Cle|r0plef                   aj           iia    |*eac|Liability    Maintenance  Maintenance
No.   (Xtn) No.                                                 Completion      Peiod        Dvso           etfct        by NHA      Accounts    Drawings
(')   (2)        (3)                 (4)                  (5)           (6)           (7)          (8)            (9)         (10)         (I")          (12)        (13)
Gurat Bypass                                                                                  by 31-12-
13_6 Km Aug.   Aug. 1995    08/08/1994                  Progress                                  95
Work in                                 To be
8bl  47.411             Gtirawala-Jhehum (ACC Portior    94%        Oct./Dec. 95       .                                   progress on   In progress  Under Process completed
abi  47.411  Guirenweia-Jhelum (ACC Porli  94%  Oct/Dec. 95                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~Dinga                       by 31-12-
Inlersection                              95
To be
8bi   2.4                   Shahdara Area (VO I 1)      81.90%                  Nork in progress                                             .                     completed
by 31-12-
Km 0+000 to
8bil  60.79       1        Jhekum-Rawalpi.di (Overlay)   87.41%     18+200 Sept.   Sept. 1994    08109/1993    In Progress  Minor Works
1994      __ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _       _ _ _ _ _       and           --To  be
Km i8+200 to                                          rectification of                        Completed
2                                                 26+500 Feb.    Feb. 1995    22/02/1994    In Progress  tailed areas                            by 31-12-
1994                                               In progress                                95
Km 26+500 to
3                                                     2+5440       Jul-95        Jul-94      In Progress
7/111994
Km 54+540 to
4                                                 77+450 Oct.    Oct. 1995    23/10/1994    In Progress
1994       _ _ _ _  _
Km 77+540 to
5                                                 85+731 Feb.    Feb. 1996     14/01/1995    In Progress
1995       _ _ _ _  _
Kin 85+731 to
6                                                 964600,Jan.   Jan. 1996      28/02/1995    In Progress
8001  0.152                        Haro Brilge            100%/o      30-Mar-93     29-Mar-94                                Tkenmpleled                    leld
t'    rt   ,S
0
El'



FOURTH IBRD HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                   ANNEXURE - A6O
Schedule of Transfer of Completed Work to NHA
Cont. Length                                 J    Date of   ~~~~~~~~~completion of Date of taking   Status of Daeo  Sttso        Stusf
1      1 gl|Certificate        Section           % Completed   Substantial    LiaNlil | MainenAnc   Maillnte nn    Taby kin         A u          Drawings
No.  1(Ki)       No.                                                              Defecin  iailty    oviner anby nIIs nance of yakNHAve   Acionas   CompleiongRsak
j Completion  Period      Division     CertificateI_____
(I)   (2)       (3)                  (4)                 (5)           (6)          (7)           (8)           (9)          (10)        (I")          (12)        (13)
MINOR CONTRACTS
6011  0.032  EPMC-127/95       RYK Cenal Bddge           100%        Mar. 1994     Apr. 1995    02102/1995    07/0111995  Taken overin  Com ted    Comled
_ ________   .______________________    ,__________           .._______                     _ _Feb.                       Co
8012  0.046  EPMC-127t95      Mhchin Canal Bridge        100S%       Mar, 1994     Apr. 1995    02/02V1995    0710111995  Taken 9ver In  Completed    Completed
________________ _ _ ___-  ._________   __________                   Feb.95
68                         Treatment ol Shouldews     25.14%           .             .             .             .            .                                 In Progress
3a    46                    Treatment of Shoulders     43.85%           .             .            .                                                            In Progress
6a    39.6                     Median Drainage         12.33%           .                                        .             .           .             .      In Progress
6b    41.4                     Median Drainage          13.80%          .             .                                        .           .                     In Progress
6an6b  25.1                 Barnier Fenring on Bypasses  31.73%           .            .                                                     .                    In Progress
7a   36.5                 Baryier Fencing on Bypasses  19.30%           .                                                                                       In Progress
g rt
-4 rt
00
C) 
0eS
Ob It
,r~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



Attachment-4
Page 1 of 15
NATIONAL HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
OPERATION PLAN
FOURTH IBRD HIGHWAY PROJECT



Attachment-4
Page 2 of 15
5.    OPERATTON AND MATNTENANCE PLAN
The following describes the NHA's strategy on operation and maintenance of
completed projects.
MATNTENANCE OF ROAD NETWORK
The highway system of a country is an index of its development both in terrms of
the role it can play in the economic life of that country, and in terms of the
investment made in creating the highway network. It is, therefore, important to
ailocate and expend further resources in a judicious manner in the maintenance of
the system.
In a general sense, the termn highway maintenance encompasses not only pavement
but also the associated structures, drainage and ancillary ground works. The major
part of any maintenance program, however, is usually the protection and
rectification of defects in the pavement surface. NTHA shall mnaintain the Fourth
Highway Project in accordance with its already established maintenance procedures
which are given below:
a.    ROUTTNE MAINTENANCE
Those ordinary maintenance activities which are required once or more
times each year to preserve pavements, structures, shoulders and drains
against the combined effects of traffic, climate and topography. For
example; filling of potholes, patches using surface treatment/asphalT
concrete bringing shoulders to required level, clearing of drains/culverts,
renewal of paint application etc.
b.    PERTODIC MAINTENANCE
Includes those ordinary maintenance activities which are required once
every second or more years only to restore the pavements, structures,
shoulders, drains and verges to the conditions they were in at the time of
constuction, or subsequent reconstruction. For example; minor overlays
in surface dressing, major overlays in asphaltic concrete on those sections
not requiring the base structure to be repaired, shoulder leveling, minor
bridge/culvert/drain repairs etc.



Attachment-4
Page 3 of 15
c.    EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE
Emergency Mainienance is defined as work needed under emergent
conditions usually such situation arrives after rain fall, floods & damage to
the road due to other adversaries and traffic restoration is essential as an
emergency work. Apart from this if same bridge structure or culvert is
damaged, diversion is needed under emergency. General Manager
(Regional) is authorized to mobilize any contractor available for the Routine
Maintenance or Periodic Maintenance close to the site preferably and if he
does not respond then any other contractor is asked to mobilize under
emergency. The financial limit is upto Rs 1 million, in case the emergent
work- scope exceed Rs I million, approval from Chairman NHA is obtained
through fax and formalities completed accordingly regarding bids invitation
at 3 days or 7 days notice.
d.    MANTENANCE BACKLOG REDUCTION
Rehabilitation is those extraordinary maintenance activities which may be
required intermittently to catch up with any backlog of scheduled routine
and periodic maintenance activities. For example; major pavement and
structural works, like complete strengthening of bases, sub-bases and
overlaying. Rebuilding of very badly damaged or collapsed structures.
e.    IMPROVEMENTS
Improvements are those extraordinary maintenance (minor improvement),or
development (major improvement) activities, which may be required
intermittently to strengthen or widen those roads and strUCtures which have
been rendered under-designed due to increases in traffic or axle loads. This
can also involve modifying the geometric layout of the road to suit the
modern conditions.
6.    EVALUATTON OF STAFF REOUTREMENT
The Organization Chart of the Maintenance Staff is attached as Annexure B(1),
B(2), B(3) & B(4) on the following pages. This staffing as per Organization Chan
will look after the projects of FHP also and there is no separate additional
requirement of addidonal staff.
4



ORGANIZATION OF Or-ERATION WING
SHOWING MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION
ANNEXURE - B(1)
Member
(Operations)
8    1~~ Geneiral Manager   ||5  General Managers|
'(Malnidhinance)       ...... ........./ Region)
.:'O         Dleco>>+i4> .Project Coordinator         .Director
LI- {Mal      nien af             ic4- '?  (MBRPIRSP)            (Maintenance)..
Deputy Directo|r                                             Deputy Directors    Local Monitoring Engineers    Resident Engineers
(Maintenanc(Ma|(Maintenance                                                      (RM, PM & EM Contracts)         (MBRP/RSP)
Asstt. DiIector: Asstt. Ditector I Assit. Director  Asstt. Director  Asstt. Directors
(Maintenance) jf (Malhiefiahce)   (MBRP/RSP)   (MBRP/RSP)             (Maintenance)
Key                                     ' rt
Inspeclors                      Shows Maintenance Setup           .9 n
00
ct
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- I^
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~la



ORGANIZATION OF MAINTENANCE                                                     ANNEXURE - B(2)
PUNJAB (NORTH) PROVINCE
GENERAL MANAGER
Punjab (North)
Director (Maintenance)
PUNJAB (N)
Deputy Dlrector                      Deputy Director                     Deputy Director
(Maintenance)                       (Maintenance)                        (Maintenance)
Islamabad                           Wazirabad                              Lahore
Asstt. Director                      Asstt. Director                     Asstt. Director
Inspectors                          Insp ctors                           Inspectors   |
7 Nos                               2 Nos                                3 Nos      l
HLj



ORGANIZATION OF MAINTENANCE
PUNJAB (SOUTH) PROVINCE                                               ANNEXURE - B(3)
GENERAL MANAGER I
Punjab (South)                l
Director (Maintenance)
PUNJAB (S)
Deputy Director                     Deputy Director                     Deputy Director
(Maintenance)                       (Maintenance)                       (Maintenance)
Bahawaipur                             Multan                            D.G. Khan
Asstt. Dlrector                     Asstt. Director                     Asstt. Director
Inspectors                          Inspectors                          inspectors
4 Nos                     ~~~~~~2 Nos                          4 Nos
4  NoXs                                                                        N s   
ut
S...JN



ORGANIZATION OF MAINTENANCE                                            ANNEXURE - B(4)
SINDH PROVINCE
GENERAL MANAGER
(Sindh)
Director (Maintenance)
SINDH
Deputy Director               Deputy Director                Deputy Director                Deputy Director
(Maintenance)                 (Maintenance)                  (Maintenance)                 (Maintenance)
Hyderabad                        Moro                          Sukkur                        Larkana
Asstt. Director               Asstt. Director                Asstt. Director                Asstt. Director
Inspectors                    Inspectors                     Inspector                      Inspectors
3 Nos                         2 Nos                                                         2 Nos     I          rt
ft
u .n



Attachment-4
Page 8 of 15
a.    JOB DESCRIPTTON (REGIONAL MAINTENANCE STAFF)
DTRECTOR (MATNTENANCE)
*     To inform GM(Region) with all maintenance problems.
*     To supervise maintenance works within jurisdiction.
*     To maintain full record of maintenance works and payments
thereon.
*     To ensure that all National Highways are in proper
conditions and there is no hindrance for traffic.
*     To prepare and submit progress reports on maintenance
works as directed by the Seniors.
*     To ensure quality control at site.
*     To ensure proper attendance of Consultants/Contractors and
NHA staff at site.
*     To ensure completion of maintenance works within the
scheduled time and approved estimates.
*     To ensure proper utilization of machinery at site as per
contract conditions.
*     To ensure supply of material at site in due course of time, so
that work may not suffer.
*     To ensure payment of bills to consultants/contractors as early
as possible after its submission.
*     To check the completion  of MBs for claims by
Contractors/Consultants.
*   To prepare replies on audit observations pertaining to
respective area of maintenance work.



Attachment-4
Page 9 of 15
DEPUTY  JTRECTOR (MAINTENANCF)
*     To supervise maintenance works within the allocated
jurisdiction.
*     To prepare annual maintenance works program, regarding
routine and periodic maintenance contracts.
*     To maintain full record of maintenance works and payments
thereon.
*     To ensure that all National Highways are in proper
conditions and there is no hindrance for traffic.
*     To prepare and submit progress reports on maintenance
works as directed by the Seniors.
*     To ensure quality control at site.
*     TTo ensure proper attendance of Consultants/Conrractors and
NHA staff at site.
*     To ensure completion of maintenance works within the
scheduled time and approved estimates.
*     To ensure proper utilization of machinery at site as per
contract conditions.
To ensure supply of material at site in due course of time, so
that work may not suffer.
*     To ensure payment of bills to consultants/contractors as early
as possible after its submission.
*     To check the completion  of MBs for claims by
Contractors/Consultants.



Attachment-4
Page 10 of 15
*     To prepare replies on audit observations pertaining to
respective area of maintenance work.
AsiTsTANT DIRECTOR (MATNTENANCE)
*     To be physically present/supervise the maintenance works of the
area allocated to them.
*     To ensure quality and completion of work in due course of time.
*     To check/certify the claims of consultants and contractors.
*     To ensure punctuality of NHA/Contractors staff at site.
*     To ensure proper functioning of National Highway under his
supervision.
*     To ensure that no one is trying for illegal encroachments in the right
of way of National Highway.
*     To ensure proposals for maintenance works and road condition
reports to the Maintenance Engineer.
*     To collect progress reports on construction works and submit to
seniors.
*     To ensure smooth running of Traffic on National Highways.
*     To maintain record of maintenance and construction works of the
region.
INSPECTOR (MAINTENANCE)
*     To watch the works of maintenance at site.
*     To ensure quality of works at maintenance sites.
{  *  To ensure that the contractors are using required equipments
properly.



Attachment-4
Page 11 of 15
* * To ensure timely completion of works.
' . * To ensure deployment of qualified personnel by contractors at site,
as per contract conditions.
*     To watch the condition of roads within pariticular jurisdiction and
submit reports to senior for necessary action.
*     To ensure proper attendance of NHA staff at site.
*     To ensure smooth running of traffic on the highways.
7.    TRAINING(  ARRANGEMENT
Training is a part of NHA policy towards staff development. Regular training
sessions are held in various fields and is largely attended by Engineers from all over
NHA, consultants & contractors in Pakistan. Some of the subjects which are
covered in these training sessions are as follows:
*     Maintenance of Highways
*     Design of Highways
*     Design of Bridges
*     Specifications
*     Standard Contract Documents
*     Construction Material
*     Management of Highways
*     Highway Safety
*     Traffic Analysis
*     Traffic Management etc.
In the presence of above mentioned training there is no special training required for
FHP, however, NHA is always endeavoring to meet the training need of
maintenance and project staff. Seminars and training courses are availed and
arranged within NHA, also Engineers are sent abroad whenever such courses are
available to NHA.



Attachment-4
Page 12 of -15
8.    TECHNICAL ARRANGEMENTS
National Highway Authority has established the Pavement Monitoring System
which will be carrying out the road condition survey to determine the Maintenance
Intervention Level (MIL) score of the whole network including the sections that will
be added under the FHP and will serve the basis to identify the nature of
maintenance contract requirements.
The Maintenance Intervention Levels are numerical ratings, these ratings are placed
upon a pavement defect and its severity. The defects and severity categories have
all been developed by the Transport Research Laboratory in the United Kingdom
based upon years of empirical research in many countries with many varied types of
road condition. All the ratings are objective measurements and rule out disparities of
what constitutes a maintenance problem.
To this physical assessment of the pavement condition is added an environment
rating which is based upon the local conditions of climate, traffic volumes and
predominant geotechnical features such as C.B.R of the predominant subgrade.
By building up an aggregated "score" for each 5 km link of the network, it is
possible to favorably compare one link to another (given the same starting
parameters) and simply target the maintenance money according to the scores.
The range of scores applying to the National Highway network of Pakistan are as
follows:
>70      This road needs reconstruction/rehabilitation. Only safery related
maintenance should be carried out.
60-69    The road pavement is in need of improvement. Major periodic overlays
should be programmed.
50-59    A road segment with this rating needs localized periodic maintenance.
40-49    This road segment needs routine maintenance.
>40      This section of road needs routine maintenance. It should be given
attention only as budgets permit.
9



Attachment-4
Pase 13 of 15
ML Presents limitless opportunities for use. I t can be used under a wide variery of
conditions. The scoring parameters can be amended to suit the development of the
network as interventions become effective.
Deputy Directors Maintenance Field Unit is responsible for the subject sections
while submitting the estimated quantities for the maintenance activities to be
required on above sections as per normal yearly maintenance program and
necessary adjustment will be carried out as per availability of the budgeL
9.  SCHEDULE OF AWARD OF CONTRACT
Schedule of award of contract will be as per annual maintenance program, i.e.
Routine Maintenance and Periodic Maintenance. However it is emphasized that for
newly built highway initially for two years, there will be annual requirement of the
Routine Maintenance and later on if required the sections can be included in
Periodic Maintenance package as well.
The following is a schedule of the cycle of activities that will be carried out in FY
1995-96:
MTL Survev: MIL Survey will be completed by the end of January 1996.
Estimate of Ouantities: The estimate of quantities will be completed by the end
of March 1996.
Award of Contract: The award of contract by mid of June 1996.
Im2lementation of Contracts: The implementation of Contracts by 1st July
1996.



Attachment-4
10.   FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS                                             Page 14 of 15,
Based upon the demand of maintenance requirements from the Regional Offices,
the NHA Head Office takes up the matter with Ministry of Communications for
necessary allocation of funds to meet the expenditure. The Ministry of
Communications places the NHA demand before the Ministry of Finance for their
consideration. The Ministry of Finance after detailed review, allocates the budget
on yearly basis. Normally it has been observed that allocation is about 50% of the
total demand. Further NHA will take up the case with Ministry of Communications
to allocate additional budget for subject projects. Therefore the maintenance of
above sections will- be met out of the annual bulk allocation by the Government of
Pakistan.
Five Year Maintenance Financial Program  on FHP contracts is as
under:
The Maintenance Schedule will be generally as tabulated below typically Rs 15,000
per kilometer is allocated for Routine Maintenance and subsequently an increase @
10% is assumed.
Routine Maintenance    Periodic Maintenance
Ist Year            Rs 15,000Acm
= Rs 1.0 million
2nd Year            Rs 1.1 million
3rd Year            Rs 1.2 million
4th Year            Rs. 1.5 million
5th Year                                       Rs 2.0 million
11.   KEY OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL TNDTCATORS
The success or failure of any infrastructure project can be gauged from various
operational and financial indicators which provide the funding Agencies and the
Executing Agency with feed back about success of the project over the design life.
It is suggested that the following indicators would be used to monitor the road
completed under the World Bank assisted Fourth Highway Project.                      t
11 



Attachment-4
Page 15 of 15
a.    ROAD CONDITION INDICATOR
The assessment of the road condition over the design life of the completed
facility is a positive indicator as to the successful completion of the project
in accordance with design and specification. In the NHA road condition
Operational Indicators are Maintenance Intervention Levels (MIL) which
take various factors into account and ranks the road condition in a scale of I
to 100 which shows deteriorating road condition as the score increase.
However, NHA is now developing a Pavement Management System which
would take factors like rutting, cracking, roughness, traffic, structural
response (deterrnined with FWD), drainage, raveling and pot holes. In the
PMS a scoring scale of zero to hundred will be used and the concept of
remaining service life will be used for each individual factor.
b.    TRAFFIC TNIDCATOR
The percentage annual increase in traffic over and above the normal growth
rate can be a reliable indicator towards the acceptance of the completed road
as being a better facility than alternately available routes. Monitoring of the
indicators will be carried at the end of each year to assess the Operation
Plan.
C.    PERCENTAGE OF FUNDIN(G FOR MAINTENANCE OF THE
COMPLETED FACTLITIES
Lower maintenance needs of any road section is a fair indicator of the
condition of a road with assumption that a road in good condition w ill need
lesser maintenance needs and thus lesser expenditure as compared to
altemate roads in the network.
12



TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
FINANCIAL STATUS UPTO OCTOBER, 1995 (Revised)
A:  Works Awarded
DESCRIPTION        SAR        BUDGET                PAYMENTS                                                   COMMITTED                       UNCOMMI IED
I1RD Finance    Table 3.1      PC-1                  (actua I                                                (but not yet paid)              (IBRD Loan Funds)
Total Payments     As.      U.S $     U.S. $  Possible       Total amount      Rs.       U.S S          U.S $
made on all cont-     Millions         Undis-  Escalation/     committed          Millions
racts to 30-09-95    G.O.P    IBRD     bursed  Claims Etc.   as of 30-09-95    G.O.P    IBRD            IORD
Rs. (Millions)  Rs. (Millions)    Rs. (Millions)        Claimed                           Rs. (Millions)
(1)           (2)          (2a)            (3)            (4)       (5)      (5A)       (SB)            (6)           (7)       (8)            (" )
MBRP         1694.00       1489.00         1973.17        640.09    43.86                 300           847.06        284.70     18.92          -10.78
($52)
RSP          1023.00      853.00           760.27        530.04     6.84                  15           189.34        151.47      1.22           6.94
($15)
Tech. Assist    252.00        110.00          135.38                    4.80                 4.23          46.58                    1.45           -0.75
($5.50)
Equipment                     4.00                                                                                                                 0.20
($0.20)
Unallocaled                   96.00                                                                                                                4.80
($4.80)
TOTALS        2969.00       2552.00         2868.82        1170.13    55.500    1.960     319.230        1082.98        436.17    $21.59         $0.41
($77.50)_
REMARKS:                               As of 30-09-95 the sum of U.S $ 53.54 has been withdrawn trom the loan
Amounts shown In this table are clerived fronm TSP Accounts Records
Col. 6 shows commiUtments to Round 3 and Includes Rs. 107 tor 2 Bridges
in Balochistan under MBRP status and Rs. 39.10 mil. for miscelaneous
flood damage schemes under RSP.                                                                                        :t
ofirt
O r
c gu
rt
tsptlnre.wcq



Attachment-5
PROJECT STATUS                         Page 2 o' 4
UPTO OCTOBER 1995 (Revised)
A: COMMITTED WORKS
S.                   No. of    Original    Estimated    Value of           Status/Progress
No.                 Contracts  Contract   Completion    Work
Amount      Amount       Done
_  RSP                                                                         _
1 Round I             17         184.40       297.55     297.55                100%
2 Round II            18         288.50       282.78     282.78                100%
3 Round III           10         173.12       175.80     126.15                72%
4 Round IlIl A         9          40.13        40.13       14.69               37%
5 Round IV             5          99.25        99.25      -
6 RSP FLOOD           17          37.10        39.10      39.10                100%
Total (Rs. in million)         822.50      934.61      760.27                81%
MBRP (LCB)        _
1 [Round I            10         102.28        83.89      83.89                100%
2 Round II             9         195.02       196.36     173.09                88%
3 Round III           13         224.16       224.16       2.24                 1%
4 Flood Damages        2         107.78       107.78      99.05                 92%
Total (Rs. in million)         629.24      612.19      358.27                59%
MBRP (ICB)
1 Sahiwal - Okara, N-5           469.66       508.17     325.28                 64%
M/S ECLC                              _            _           _
2 Wadh - Surab, N-25             588.90      1400.00     1289.61                92%
__ MIS  J&P                  _ _  _ _     _ _  _ _
Total (Rs. In million)        1058.56     1908.17     1614.89                85%
GRAND  TOTAL               2510.30    3454.97   2733.43                      79%
(Rs. in million)                      _                        _      _      _    _      _
-p.
projstat.wq 1



SUMMARY OF TSP
FINANCIAL STATUS UP TO OCTOBER 1995 (Revised)
WORKS COMMITTED
Description         Contract      Amount    Balance   Possible            Total        I.B.R.D.
Price    Paid Todate               Escalation/  Remainings    Share
Claims      (IBRD+GOP)          US $
A: Civil Works
MBRP                         2,520.23       1,973.17    547.06       300.00          847.06       62.78
RSP                            934.61         760.27     174.34       15.00           189.34       8 .06
B: Consultants                 177.73         135.38     42.35         4.23           46.58        6.25
C: Equipment                     0.00                      0.00                         0.00       0.00
D: Future Studies                                                                                  0.41
Total                       3,632.57       2,868.82    763.75       319.23         1,082.98      77.50
t :>
P rt
00C
ct
{D A
OYU
FSMAY.WQ. 1



bttachment-5
Pacfe 4 o.f. 4
TSP Loan 3241-Pak
Details of Remaining Funds Utilization w.e.f. Sept. 1995
(RSP)
Contract   Certified         Possible   Total
Projects    Amount    Amount  Balance   VOP   Remaining
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(3     + 4 )
_ _ _ _ _  1  2     3        4         5
7140       33.884     13.560    20.324     -      20.324
7141       29.436     19.900    9.536      .       9.536
7142       12.353     10.740    1.613              1.613
7143A       18.038     14.992    3.046             3.046
7143B       22.307     14.164    8.143     -   1  8.143
7148       9.405      2.418     6.987     --  j  6.987
7151A to F   30.790     12.280    18.510            18.510
7131 A      9.644      6.567     3.077      .  |  3.077
7131 B      12.553     10.570    1.983          |  1.983
7131 C      12.108     10.800    1.308 _     1308
Round IV     99.250               99.250            99.250
Total      289.768    115.991   173.777115.000  188.777



Attachment-6
Piaei of 8
The World Bank                                  R.'4 M.6sw             P 0. lC25, IMamab
IN,ERNATIONAL RANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELT  m Pak,mn          7       01) 317514 hem
WJERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  ,Tx SW SPI--
FAX (1) 210N4
FAX M7SSAG_
October 14, 1995
Mr. Shahid Aziz Siddiqi
Chairman
National Highway Authority
7slamabad.
Dear Si-,
Re: Proposed Highway Rehabilitation P:oject
Concept Paoer - Discussion Draft
Attached is the discussic-. draft of a concept paper for the proposed
H:ghway Rehabilitation Project.  We look fcrward to discussing the prcocse:
--roject with officials of the National Hichway Authority and concerned
-, nistries of the Government of Pakistan during the course of the uRcoming
.ighway Identification mission.
With best regards,
Yours S.ncerely,
Navaid A. Qureshi
Projects Adviser
cc:   1. Mr. Mohammed Sher Khan, Secretary, Ministry of Coamunications.
2. Mr. Javaid Masud, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
3. Mr. Malik Moha=nad Saeed Xhan, Senior Chief, Planning Division.
4. Mr. Tanwir Ali Agha, Joint Secretary (Banks), EAD.
MT44M  RSA 24823 WU14145



Attachment-6
Page 2 of 8
PAIaSTAN
ProDosed Hiehwav Rehabilitation Proiect
Concept Paper - Discussion Draft
October 12, 1995
Countrv/Sector Backaround.
1.     The transport and communications sector accounts for about 10% of Pakistan's GDP. During the
1980s demand for infrastructure grew more rapidly than GDP or population, while public sector
investment in infastructure declined due to budgetary constraints. The adverse impact of past under
investment has been accentuated by inadequate recurrent expenditures on maintenance. As a result, severe
bottlenecks have developed in the transportation system, and levels of service remain low. It is estimated
that inadequate transport infrastructure increases transport costs in Pakistan by up to 50%, and is
estimated to cost the economy about USS 0.5 billion annually.
2.     Pakistan's primary traffic artery is the 1700 km Karachi-Lahore-Peshawar corridor. The
corridor's transport system serves domestic needs, and also links Punjab with international markets
through the Karachi area ports. About 60% of the port traffic moves to and from Punjab along the
corridor. Domestic freight traffic has been gro'hing at an annual rate of 5% during the past 25 years, and
the incremental traffic has been carried by the trucking industry. Rail traffic has been stagnant. Currently
over 85% of the inland passenger and freight traffic is carried by road.
3.     The 6600 km long National Highway System accounts for less than 4% of the overall road
network, but carries two-thirds [?I of the total traffic. It's main artery, the 1760 Ian long N-5 highway
along the Karachi-Lahore-Peshawar corridor carries the bulk of the country's inter-city traffic. Previous
Bank operations (Highways m and IV), have assisted in upgrading sections of this highway from two to
four lanes, by constructing about 500 Kmn of additional carraigeway. During 1991-93 GOP embarked on a
major highway expansion program that included contracts for the construction of the additional
carraigeway for most of the remaining N-5 sections. These GOP financed contracts are expected to be
completed by 1996-97.
4.     Although a substantial section of the N-5 is now operating as a dual carraigeway, the original
carraigeway is showing sevqre signs of distress in several sections . About 200 Km of this original
carraigeway have recently been rehabilitated under Highways IV. During 1994, GOP formally requested
the Banlk for assistance with reconstruction of the remaining length of existing carraigeway along the N-5.
5.     NHA's annual development expenditures increased over fivefold between FY91 and FY93 and
have stabilized around Rs 10-11 billion annually over the past three years. However, these have not been
matched by corresponding real increases in NHA's annual maintenance allocations, which have stagnated
at less than Rs 0.5 billion. The agency is currently spending barely 6% of its total budgel on routine and
periodic maintenance, while it is estimated that the shortfall in NHA's annual maintenance expenditures
has increased from 50% to 65% of network needs in the three year period up to FY95. Between 1989 and
1993 the proportion of the National Highway network in good condition (i.e. requiring only routine
maintenance) dropped sharply from 50% to 35%. This position is likely to worsen, as a result of normal
traffic growth, greater pavement damage caused by a significant increase in average axle loads, and a
continuming modal shift in freight transportation from road to rail, unless current fiscal constraints limiting
substantial increases in maintenance funding can be overcome.
6.     The Bank assisted Transport Sector Project included covenants on increased annual funding
levels for highway maintenance as part of NHA's CIMP. Although these expenditure targets were broadly
achieved, thy were outstripped by actual network requirements on account of the factors listed above.
7.     Initial estimnates indicate that total revenues mobilized from road users (taxes, duties, license fees,
tolls, etc.) over the preceding three year period roughly equaled total federal and provincial highway
sector expenditures. This indicates that road user charges, when adjusted for general revenue taxes, are
less than highway sector expenditures.



Attachment-6
Page 3 of 8
Proposed Highway Rehabilitation Project                                     October 12, 1955
(                     Strategv and Needs
8.     Increased resource mobilization from road users is clearly needed to finance NHA's maintenance
expenditures to a level required to preserve the network. While a Resource Mobilization study
commissioned under Highways XV is expected to provide detailed information shortly, it is anticipated that
an earmarked surcharge of the order of 15% on transport fuels can for example provide sufficient
revenues to pay for the annual routine and periodic maintenance needs of the National Highway Network.
Such an increase in user charges should be politically acceptable, if it is clearly linked through a
transparent mechanism to increased road maintenance expenditures, and strengthened accountability in
highway agency operations. The additional revenues when placed in a dedicated Road Fund, can provide
a steady source of financing for NHA's operation and maintenance expenditures, that is independent of the
vagaries of the federal budget.
9.     NHA's sole reliance on the federal budget for financial support can also be minimized, and the
development of a modem highway system accelerated by encouraging Private Sector Participation (PSP)
in highway investments and operations. This requires the introduction of a supportive legal, financial and
regulatory framework; as well as building up capacity within the agency to promote PSP. Private
concessions for operating NHA's existing assets like the Lahore-Islamabad Motorway and the Lahore
Bypass etc. as tolled facilities, can minimize further public sector investments in these works, generate
additional revenues and lead to modern and efficient operation of these major facilities.
10.    Carefully prioritized public sector highway investments wvill be required for the NHA network in
the future, to maximize benefits in a period where public sector development funds are limited and the
PSDP is facing severe macro economic constraints. These could include selective expansion of network
capacity, pavement strengthening to cater for growing traffic loads, improving ride quality etc., primarily
along Pakistan's high densitv traffic corridors.
Proiect Obiectives
II.    The project objectives are:
a.     Increased resource mobilization from road users, promoting efficient use of the highway
network and discouraging vehicle overloading [By adjusting the level and structure of user
charges and by enforcement of axle load control].
b.     Creation of an earmarked source of additional revenue for funding NHA's routine
operation and maintenance functions. Financial strengthening of the agency, and progressively
declining dependence on budgetary support.
c.     Improving the accountability in NHA's operations [making agency performance more
transparent through the use of explicit performance indicators; linking highway maintenance
expenditures to payments made by road users; and wider stakeholder participation in
management/ utilization of the Road Fund resources]
d.     Promoting Private Sector Participation in highway investments/operations.
e.     Encouraging growth, reducing tansportation costs and increasing competitiveness of
the country's exports. [Through capacity expansion and improved riding quality for the highest
priority sections of the National Highway System, primarily N-5].
-2-



*                                                                                         Attachment-6
Page 4 of 8
Proposed Highway Rehabilitation Project                                     October 12, 1955
f.     Development of a modern highway sector in Pakistan. [Capacity building and
institutional strengthening of NHA. Implementing measures to reduce roadside friction
particularly along bypasses; promote highway safety; strengthen the domestic highway
construction industry, develop capacity of the domestic consultant firms etc.]
Proiect Description
12.    Achievement of the project objectives will be ensured by reaching agreement to specific up-front
actions in the following areas:
a.     Appropriate adjustments in the current level and structure of road user charges.
b.     Earmarking of a portion of revenues from road users to finance NHA's routine annual
operation and maintenance (O&M) costs.
c.     Setting up of a Road Fund jointly managed by a Board comprising of government
nominees and Road User Association representatives. The Fund to be used for financing only
designated NHA O&M expenditures.
d.     Necessary legislation for axle load control.
C.     Putting in place of a supportive policy and regulatory framework for PSP. Award of
concessions for the operation and maintenance of NHA's rnajor revenue generating assets
(Lahore-Islamabad motorway, Lahore Bypass etc.) as tolled facilities by the private sector.
13.    Project components could consist of:
a.     Annual routine and periodic maintenance of the N-5 for the duration of the project,
determined on the basis of NHA's pavement/maintenance management svstem, financed entirely
from the proposed Road Fund.
b.     A phased program of pavement strengthening for selected sections of the N-5 exissung
carraigeway that are structurally sound, financed partly from the Road Fund, and partly [on a
declining annual basis i.e. 60,50,40,30,200/%] by IBRD etc.
c.     Reconstruction of a portion of the N-5 original carraigeway (including structures)
selected on the basis of traffic levels, existing pavement condition and other related factors,
financed partly from the NHA PSDP and partly by 1BRD (and possibly other cofinanciers) .
d.     A focused technical assistance program to assist the NHA PSFinancing cell in
developing a portfolio of bankable private sector highway investments/concessions, and
preparation of RFPs, with the aim of achieving at least one or two signed concession agreements
within an 18 month span.
e.     Technical assistance, capacity building and implementation support for upgrading
NHA's accounting and financial systems; management of the Road Fund and periodic review of
the level of user charges; implementing transparent and streamlined contract administration
procedures; strengthening in-country pavement management and maintenance capabilities;
developing country specific pavement design procedures and material specifications, etc.
-3-



Attachment-6
Page 5 of 8
Proposed Highway Rehabilitation Project                                      October 12, 1955
( -                   Proiect Costs & Financing
14.    Reliable estimates of total cost of upgrading the existing N-S carraigeway require comprehensive
studies and field investigations, including pavement condition surveys and prehminary designs. However
some indicative cost estimates based on the general network condition obtained through the MII, system
introduced under Highways IV, are attached in Table 1.
1S.    If, for the sake of initial broad estimates, it is assumed that of the total length of N-S, 500 km
(28%) require pavement strengthening, and 600 km require total reconstruction, then a project covering
maintenance and upgrading of the entire N-S over a five year period would currently cost around PRs 29
billion (USS 900 mnillion). Undertaling such a project in a single phase (under the financing Plan
indicated in Case 1), would require external financing of the order of PRs 13.5 billion (USS420 nillion)
i.e. 47% of total project costs. The annual expenditure levels for such a project are under PRs 6 billion, i.e.
about 45% of NHA's planned FY96 expenditures.
16.    Case E1 descnbes a more flexible phased approach to upgrading of N-S. The overall scope of work
in Phase I is scaled down to match the availability of external financing and counterpart funds. The
project scope is curtailed to include only limited segments of the highway requiring total reconstruction,
while the other components remain unchanged. If, for example, only 300 Km of highway reconstruction
are included, the total project costs become PRs 18 billion (USS 560 mnillion). In this case external
financing is required to finance about PRs 7.7 billion (USS 240 mnillion), i.e. 43% of total project costs.
17.    The exact size of the proposed project and the possible extent of external financing would be
established during the course of project preparation. IBRD financing of up to USS 200 million may be
possible for such an operation. Interest of other donors in co-financing the project remains to be explored.
18.    Initial estimates indicate that the N-5 may require about Rs 0.75 billion in annual maintenance
costs for year 1. Since maintenance of N-5 constitutes about half of the entire National Highway network
maintenance costs, the Road Fund would need to generate around PRs 1.5 billion in year I of the project,
and about PRs 2.5 billion by year 6 when the project closes, and NHA becomes responsible for financing
the full maintenance costs of N-5 from its own resources.
Preparation and Implementation
19.    Project preparation will be used to strengthen the in-country project planning and development
capacity. In order to ensure ownership, the borrower (NHAIGOP) will be asked to take the lead in
preparation, using the assistance of a management consultant, if necessary. The Bank will contribute to
the preparation effort by participating in the policy dialogue with GOP, and by assisting with
development/ preparation of the more innovative aspects of the project (Road Fund/ earmarking / PSP
etc.) drawing on the successful application of these concepts elsewhere in the world.
20.    Technical assistance wiU be required in the form of consultant inputs for specific preparation
tasks. Limited uncommitted funds are available under the ongoing TSP [closing mid-19961, some of
which may be reallocated for this purpose. However, additional resources (PIID trust funds or PPF) will
be required for project preparation. The objective will be to finalize engineeritg designs and design of the
Technical Assistance for implementation before Appraisal, and bidding documents for the first two vears
of project implementation prior to project negotiations.
21.    Implementation of the policy components of the project will require the agreement of the
borrower's federal ministries of Finance, Planning, Communications and Law etc. Implementatiun of the
project's physical components and studies iwill be through the National Highs ay Authority.
.4.



Attachment-6
Page 6 of 8
Proposed Highway Rehabilitation Project                                      October 12, 1955
(T                    Sustainability
22.    The project sets out to: reduce NHA's dependence on the GOP for development and maintenance
financing through budgetary support; increase NHA's accountability with regard to its operations and
utilization of agency resources; strengthen in-country and NHA capacity to efficiently manage and operate
the system, and to maximize the development impact of limited resources; induct the Private Sector for
highway investments/operations wherever possible, to minimize the burden on the public exchequer, and
achieve policy changes/govermnent action needed to address other major bottlenecks to the development
of the sector. It will seek to reach agreement with government and other major donors in the sector, on a
carefully prioritized medium term investment program, that is consistent with the overall macroeconomic
framework, to ensure that counterpart funds are available in a timely manner. These are key steps aimed
at sustainable development and modernization of Pakistan's National Highway network.
Lessons from Previous Bank Assistance
23.    The Bank has had a long-standing relationship with NHA (and formerly NHB) covering several
operations spanning a number of years. Under Highways lV the Bank assisted NHB set up a maintenance
management system, which has been operating successfully for the last five years and has enabled NHA to
prioritize and cost its annual maintenance operations and to introduce "'maintenance by contract". Under
the Transport Sector Project, the Bank assisted in the reorganization of NHB into NHA, and helped
finance a major portion of the accumulated maintenance backlog on the national highway network. As a
result of past Bank operations and assistance, NHA is gradually evolving into a modern highway agency.
Significant progress was made on the institutional side in early 1995, when the National Highway Council
approved the revised NHA organizational structure and service rules. Regularization of "work-charge"
staff is now underway. The current projects are generally progressing well, and expected to close by mid
1996, having achieved a number of their major development objectives.
24.    Previous efforts at NHA institutional strengthening require continued support. However,
technical assistance in future projects needs to be more carefully focused, and rely more on local expertise
where available, to utilize and develop available in-country capacity and to achieve sustainable benefits.
Policy changes have traditionally been difficult to achieve during the course of project implementation,
and should be ensured by specific up-front action.
25.    Targeted resource mobilization measures were not explicitly included in previous highway
projects, with the result that broader fiscal constraints and the limited availability of counterpart funds (for
investments and maintenance) have adversely effected project objectives and agency performance. This
position was exacerbated when the borrower embarked on major highway expansion program during
1991-93. There is therefore a need to carefully design future projects within prevailing macro constraints,
and to reach binding agreement nith the borrower on the framework of an economically justifiable
medium term public sector investment program in the highway sector.
Rationale for Bank involvement
26.    Given the importance of an efficient transportation system for Pakistan's economy, and the
country's offorts to achieve export led growth, and the predominance of road transport in the present
inter-modal niix (for both passengers and freight), the project would strengthen the current thrust of the
Bank's operations in the highway sector, by enhancing resource mobilization, improving efficiency and
transparency in operations, introducing sustainable new arrangements for financing and managing
highway maintenance, promoting private sector participation and by assisting with highway upgrading in
the economically strategic, high density, Karachi-Lahore-Peshawar corridor.
- 5-



*_ _
Attachment-6
Page 7-of 8
Proposed Highw2y Rehabilitation Project                                       October 12, 1955
27.    Important initiatives are currently underway within NHA in a number of areas including: axle
load control, ROW preservation, development of BOT/PSP policies, development of a Pavement
Management System, a limited research program to tailor international pavement design methodologies
and material specifications to the Pakistani context, etc. Continued Bank assistance is needed to build on
the progress achieved to date. The proposed operation while financing upgrading of the highest priority
portions of the National Highway Network, and would encourage GOP in taking difficult decisions needed
to develop and sustain a modem and efficient highway system.
28.    It is proposed that the Bank leverage its resources in the sector, by inviting other co-financiers to
participate in the project.
Environmental Aspects
29.    Appropriate incentives to adopt measures which reduce environmental damage by vehicular
traffic will be incorporated in the revised structure of road user charges. Details would be developed
during project preparation.
30.    There would be very few resettlement issues involved, as the project would finance civil works
essentially -aithin the existing ROW corridors. Recycling of existing pavement materials in construction
of the new pavement sections would be explored to the maximum extent possible, to minimize adverse
environmental impact. Traffic in both directions would be restricted to the additional carraigeway during
the construction period.
Risks
31.    The following project risks can be identified at this stage:
a.     Delays in implementation of key policy actions.
b.      Changed political and/or sectoral priorities.
C.      Announcement of major new projectslinvestments in the sector, that are politically
driven, but of low economic priority.
d.     Inadequate availability of counterpart funds, Ieading to a delay in the completion of
ongoing NHA projects, and thereby delaying the start of new projects.
Timing and reporting
32.    Project processing is expected to follow the following schedule:
Identification mission:   Oct. 1995
IEPS                  Jan 1996
Appraisal:            Dec. 1996
Negotiations          Jun. 1997
Board presentation    Dec. 1997
Effectiveness         Jun. 1998
33.    While the project could be prepared with in the time frame indicated above, it is unclear whether
the borrower will be able to implement the up-front actions listed in para 12 within the required time
frame.
NAQ: \CONPAPHV.DOC
-6 -



PROPOSED HiGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT                                      10/1495 21:44
4 WI   Tble - 1: Indicative Prolct Coat end Fenchng Plan
a . (AN fIIgures hI Milian PRS unws noted othervise)
w o
go w
_ _            _I                                   -      Case1:IndlcaiveTodal Costs----                             --Case II: Phase I Costs   -
1:Ch4 Component                 Lenglh i3iiFConl    Cost           GOP         Extemal Flnancign     LenghlUn1niCont.  Cosl          GOP       ExternalFhanch
(Km                                              rc5                                                     L|A|1_(m cs-  s   AAml  %  I  Aml
cost  AL.                 Z]-X. %fAnii                             Ki)I cJ[osL I             % ~      .        F    m
1 Routine & PerodIc Mainte    660                  3,200 100%      3.200   0%            0        660               3,200 100%      3,200   0%         0
2 Pavement StrengthenIg      500    5.5            3,520  60%      2,112  40%         1,400        00  5.5          3,520  60%      2,112  40%      1,400
3 Reconstruction             600    25            19,200  50%      9,600  50%         9,600       300  25           9,600  50%      4,800  50%      4,800
Total CH Works            1760         1.28    25,920          14,912             11,008       1460       1.3   16,320           10.112           6,208
4 Technical Assistance (say 10%)                   2,592  10%       259  90%          2,333                         1,632  10%        163  90%      1,469
Ttal PRs                |                      28,512          15,171             13.341                        17,952              5           7
|Total USS                                        891             474                417                            561             321            240
Paverent Strengthening (PS) finaced by Donors on an annual declinIg basis 60:50:40:30:20 Percent
Estdiated Malnt needs (Base Costs)
- . ., j .-Yr2  Yr'                                          Y f6
I N5-RM/PM                           500  700       700
2 NS-PS:Yr 1 (100 kmQ5.5x40%)        220
2 N5-PS:Yr 5 (100 km@5.5x80%)             440       550
3 Total N-5Maid Needs                720 1140      1250
4 Remaining retwork maint. needs     72  1140      1250
5 Total Road fund eeded:                 2280      2500
NAQ:%HVCOST.XLS
...
I i I



Attachment - 7
NHA'S PRESENTATION
ON
THE CONDMON OF THE N-5 EXISTING CARRIAGEWAY



Attachment-7
METHODOLOG Y  Paae 1 of 16
D~istress    L Syrvev.Roughness Survey
- Rutting Index                                        Ride Quality Index
- Cracking Index
Pothole Index   7 
|Present Network |                                    Future Network|
| Condito                                              Codto
Development of
Optimal Strategy
RSL ' 0                       RSL > O
Reconstruction Length            Overlay Length
Identification of 
T ~~~Homogeneous SectionsrI
(   otential Projects                                 Potential Projects)
for                                                 f or
OVERLAYS                                        RECONSTRUCTI ON
|Traffic|..
L               ~~~~~Economic Feasibility   4 
i-     [      3       _    ~ ~~~~~ (IRR 8 B/C)   s\G Piss



Attachment-7
Page 2 of 16
Budget>
Constra int
Final Ranking
Drainaae Survey                                     FW  Suve
jIFWD Survev           f
Sub-surface                               -IeN 
Drainage                                            - Backcalculate Layer
Evaluation _                  D E S I G N    4       Properties
- Design Deflection
TRAFFIC                                  TRIAL PITS
- Insitu Compaction
- Layer Thicknesses
Working Plan
_        ~~V%Gu%'
-~~
_    S~~~~~=
't                     ~~~~~C~1~t3Mn



Attachment- 7
Pace 3 of 16
RUTTING
(Rut 1 /2")
_             ~~~33.00%
(Rut 1"    
30.11%         49
(Un-rutted)
4 5/- 11.33%                                       21.61%c- 7
(Rut 1.5")       (Rut > 1.5"
Total Length  = 1624 Kms



Attachment-7
Paae 4 of 16
CRACKING
(Crack 6-10mm)             (Crack 2-6MM)
21.86%     -                     19a4-%
_        ~~19.40%
355 Kms 
-'     (Craack  < 2mm)
Y .                             UW :   .82%
451 KmT, 
27.7 1%     <          /    / 441, Kms   /
(Crack > 10mm)
27.16%    n/
(Un-cracked)
Total Length = 1624 Kmc
.1



Attachment-7
Page 5 of 16
POTHOLES
(0-20)
67.122X
(80- 100)
Kmsi ;  3.69%
X 9.6~~~7%
15e21%  ~            (40-60)
(20-40)
Total Length = 1624 Kms



Attachment-7
Pace 6 of 16
ROUGHNESS
(2000-3000)
19.64%
[\ ~319 Kms /
~~~ X // ( ~~~~<2000)
(3000-4000)
10.59%                                                17.80%
ms    ( > 8000)
(7000-8000)
(4000-5000)                         343 Kms                   (6000-7000)
21.12%
(5000-6000)
Total Length = 1624 Kms



ROUGHNESS SURVEY
1995
B.1. ROUGHNESS (mmfkim) in Thousands (Thousands)
10
BAHA WALPU R
2                           . .   . . .        . . . .    . . .-   - -   - -   - - - -   - ;-0- -   - -   - - -   - l - - -
SUIKKUR    RAHIMYAR KHAN                     .1MULTAN
HYDERABAD                 I
0) rt
1  65  115. 165 215 265 315 365 415 465 515 565 615 665 715 765 815 865 915 965                                  - 0
KM



ROUGHNE'S -SURVEY
1995
3.1. RCUGHNESS (mm/km) in Thousands
12
6                                       . . . . . . . . .
2.                                                                                                 A
I   ~~~AHIWL
MINCHANNU            OKARA LHR
JHELUM              RAWALPINDI
1001   1051   1101   1151   1201   1251   1301   1351- 1401   1451   1501   1551   1601   1651
KM
rt
a-.



Includes 58 Kms of
/ lr Lahore - Rawalpindi Section
81 1 60 Kms                                           ,
600                          C         = 
l tti1. _. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . _ '.. , . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .
Includes 91 Kms
o                             .                             1 iM .|" of Lahore - Rawalpindi  Includes 121 Kms
0 400                   .                     !1i.g; 4 279 Kms Section      #   Lahore - Ra alPindi
o                               .....          *1..            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~section--
Z      .        ,;     --                    i%   Remaining available 1          Km&s     t
. -l, . 164      .=206 Kms14                                                      Reang
148         ~~Remaining
.   . j f;=? ...   10:1   97  74      ,                        <   available
2 00          .      lv vA/ A             _56    57                      l ll|=46 Kms
<XAS~~~~~~~~~/
<= 0  0-1    1-2    2-3   3-4   4-5    5-6   6-7    7-8   8-9   9-10                           t e
Remaining  Service  Life  (Years)                   .                           ,
rt-



REMAINING SERV'^E LIFE (N-5)
RSL (Years)
10 F
:3 1 h .i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . ............
HYDERABAD
CARACHI-    HALA                    SUKKUR       R'- KHAN       BAHAWALPUR   MULTAN
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
....# 
I?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
14  64  114 17.8 228 278 328 378 428 478 528 578 628 678 728 778 828 878 928 987
KM



REMAINING SERV PE LIFE (N-5)
RSL (vealS)
12
10~~~~~~~ 01..
B~~ I
SAHI AL OKARA       LAHORE                       JHELUM                          PES      R
f.th ANNU  SHALRAWALPINDI
1004   1Q51   1101   1151   1201   1272   1322   1372   1422   1472   1522   1586   1636   1686
KM



SECTOR-WISE DISTRIBUTION OF REMAINING SERVICE LIFE
Length    RSL <= 0                % Length Failed in
Sectors                            (Kms)        (%)       Cracking    Rutting    Pothole   Roughness
Reconstruction
1. Lahore - Sahlwal                   143          90           82         60         23           31
2. Bahawalpur - Rahim Yar Khan        190          81           48          9          3           62
3. Chablat , Khairabad                 31          61           35         19          0           35
4. Karachi - lyderabad                 44          55           25         25          0           23
Overlay
1. Karachi - Hyderabad                 91           0            0          0          0            0
2. Rawalpindi- Peshawar               114          24 *         15         13          0            3
*  1. 14 Kms from Tarnol Railway Crossing to Taxila have RSL <= 0 due to
rutting. For this section Pavital Overlay is being considered.
2. 13 Kms with SSL < = 0 are between Nowshera and Peshawar. A direct
Overlay on this section is being considered.
Dirt
gq rt
m Po
-    1
ml



BREAK DOWN OF SECTORS IN TO PROJECTS
V NO.5  D::l:  :TRON                       TO     -          LENGTH
0.          ~~FROM                       T 
STATION                   STATION           kEN I
RECONSTRUCTION  PROJECTS                                          - ---ril
I Chablat               1591 Khairabad          1621         31
2 Ahmedpur East          792 Bahawalpur           844        53
3 Rahimayar Khan         655 Khan Bela            733        79
4 Khan Bela              734 TMP                  755        22
5 TMP                    756 Ahmedpur East        791        36
6 Patoki                1180 Lahore              1244        65
7 Sahiwal               1102 Okara               1133        32
8 Okara                 1134 Patoki              1179        46
9 Karachi                122 Hyderabad            148        37
10 Karachi                 14 Karachi TP            20          7
LTOTAL       __                                                        408
OVERLAY  P ROJECTS
E  Rawalpindi           1551 Taxila              1568        18
2 Taxila                1569 Hasan Abdal         1584         16
___________ Khairabad              1622 Nowshera           1656       -35
4 Karachi                 21 Hyderabad            111         91
5 Nowshera              1657 Peshawar            1695        391
ITOTAL                           -                        [     _      199]
c   rt
10 r
Tm
A
W 
O tUc
Fb- -



ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE SELECTED PROJECTS
[FROM                 TOENG_TH  Roughness ONEWAY  IRR -
PRIORITY      . STATION       -     STATION         :km,    mmlkm         AADT      %
RECONSTRUCTION  PROJECTS
1_______   Chablat  1591 Khairabad  1621        31       5900      5600   81.7   5.2
2 Ahmedpur East  792 Bahawalpur    844          53       6000       8300   73.9   4.7
3 Rahimayar Kha   655 Khan Bela      733        79       6100      6600   68.6    4.3
4 Khan Bela       734 TMP            755        22       5800       5700   60.1    3.8
5 TMP             756 Ahmedpur East 791         36       6400       5400   54.9   3.4
6 Patoki         1180 Lahore        1244        65       6300       4500   41.3   2.5
7 Sahiwal        1102 Okara         1133        32       6000       4000   36.5   2.2
8 Okara          1134 Patoki        1179        46       5800       3800   35.1    2.2
9 Karachi         122 Hyderabad      148        37       3000       4900   24.6   1.6
10 Karachi          14 Karachi TP      20         7       3000       4900   24.6   1.6
[TOTAL                          I                         408             
OVERLAY  PROJECTS  
R   RawalOindi   1551 Taxila        1568        18       3500      11500   72.5   4.6
2 Taxila         1569 Hasan Abdal  1584         16       4500       6500   54.1    3.4
3|Khairabad      1622 Nowshera      1656        35       4500       5350   48.1      3
4 |Karachi         21 Hyderabad      111        91        3000      4900   33.4   2.1
5 1[Nowshera     1657 Peshawar   _1695          39        30001     9000   28.6   1.8
OTAL                    i          _                     -I I I  1991  1          1    I
0rt
tP rt
0
0 1i
I rt
.-. -.
a0l



FIFTH  HIGHWA, PROJECT
___    _______                      FIVE YEAR PLAN                    ___            __
YEAR    PROJECT DESCRIPTION     REIIABLITATION STRATEGY  PROJECT  COST PER YEAR       RUNNING
_________________________   Overlay  Reconst  COST   NIIA@49%   IBRD@51%    COST
1998 I. Karachl-Hyderbad                                      _
-KM 14TO KM20                               7       175    42.875    44.625
-KM21TOKMII1                    91                  910    222.95    232.05
-KM 112 TO KM 148                          37       925   226.625   235.875
2. Bhawalpur-Ahmedpur East
-KM 844 TO KM 792                          53      1325   324.625   337.875       _
3. Ahmedpur East-TMP
-KM 791 TO KM 756                          36       900      220.5      229.5
TOTAL          f td 00 i3Tt i 0 ; 0 ;;0; f91  133  -4235  1037.575 :1079.925  1037.575
1999 1. Rawalpindl-Taxila .
-KM1551TOKM1568                 18                   180      44.1       45.9
2. Taxlla-Hasan Abdal                                  0         0          0
-KM1569TO KM1584                16                   160       39.2      40.8
3. Chabbat-Khalrabad                                   0         0          0
-KM 1591 TO KM 1621                        31       775   189.875   197.625
4. TMP-Khan Bela
- KM 755 TO KM 734                         22       550    134.75    140.25
______ TOTAL i:i::;t A: #; ;t; i     ; 34  53      1665   407.925   424.575,  1445.5
2000 1. Khalrabad-Nowshen___
-KM 1622 TO KM 1656             35     _             350      85.75     89.25
2. Nowshern-Peshawar
-KM1657TO KM1695                39         .         390      95.55     99.45
3. Khan Bela-RYK          __   _
-KM 733TO KM655             ___            79       1975   483.875   503.625       _
4. Sahiwal-Okara           __ ___    _
-KM 1102TOKM 1133                          32        800        196       204
TOTAL                           74        111      3515   861.175   896.325    1269.1
2001 1. Lahore-Patokl
-KM 12440T 1180 _KM__ II                   65      1625   398.125   414.375
2. Patoki-Okara  _               _g_m__   __ ___
- KM 11 79rO KNI 1134                      46       1150    281.75    293.25         __
0 :
0       i- ll     2775   679.875 _707.625 _ 1541;05
7--=.-- TOTAL  -7---g                               _      1219_      --_~7  _~L            __ .1



N-5 With Or Without ifth Highway Project )r
1st January, 2003
:71
1,600
1,400
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
1 ,200
80
~~~~~~r~~~~~t .
Project58    87
,;    6 00    :      -.52--------...
4 00 
200
o     1      2     3      4     5     6      7     8      9    10
Remaining  Service  Life  (Years)                                      
*Without Project tgWith  Project|o,



ATrACIIMENT-8
Pa    .,I of 2
Proposed Highway Rehabilitation Project - Preparation Schedule
J                      ~~~~~~~~~1996
ID    Name                                         Duration  Od |ANo     ecp Jan  Feb  Mar  A r  May  Jun   Jul | Aug | Sep| Oct  Nov I Dec  Jan  Feb  Mar  A r  Mar
1 Identilicaion Mission                                 3wE|
2    Concept Clearance (NHA Executive Board)            9w
3    WB - IEPS/PID                                     12w
4    PC-I1 (TWP of NHA Exec. Board)                    low
5    Financing Arrangement (PPF/TF etc)                12w
6    Preparation Consultanis Selection                 12w           .             , =     /
7    Project Preparation                               36w       .                                                / //          /    /    // .
8    WS - Preappralsal                                  4w       .
9    WO - Appraisal                                     4w       ..,'
10   WB - Yelow Cover Revlew                             1w
11   Dran PC-1                                           6w
12   CDWP/NHA Exec. Board Approval                       6w
13   WO - Green Cover Revlewfnvltatlon to Negotiate      2w
14   Negoiations                                         1w
15   Confirmation of Negotiated Docs/Revislon of PC-1    4w
16   National Highway Council Approval                   Od
17   WB - Board Presentation                             Od
18   Signing                                             Od
19   EffectIveness                                       Od
____________________    ____________  _   __                                                                                               .a____________________________t  rt
Project: Highway V                     Cri f i  c     l     __ Progress                                Summary r  r
Date: 11/1/95                          Noncritical                     Milestone  *                    Rolled Up 'C)
Page 1rt
__   _  ___  _ __ __ _  ______._ _._  ___ _ ..................... h) (D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol



ATrACIIMENT-8
2 of  2.
Proposed Highway Rehabilitation Project - Preparaton Schedule
1997                                                                  1998                                 1                                1999
Jun   Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec  Jan  Feb  Mar  Ar  May  Jun   Jul  Aug  Se   Oct  Nov  Dec*Jan                        MrJ                       l  Aug I Sep  Oct  N>ovi Dec
rt
Project Hkghway V                       Critical   [7       __j          Progress                         Summary  l                 v
Dale: 1111/95                           NoncrZiIcal                      Milestone  *                     Rolled Up  O                                                                      t>
Page 2



Appendix B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Ln. 2814-PAK)
Borrower's Evaluation



NATIONAL HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
Ministry of Communications
Government of Pakistan
FHP FINAL REPORT
FOURTH IBRD IIIGH N'AY PROJECT
LOAN NO. 2814 PAK
PROJECT MANAGEMENT CELL
APRIL 1996



TABLE OF CONTENTS
FINAL REPORT
FOURTH IBRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
DESQRIPTIoN                                                   PAGE No.
PROLOGUE                                                                  1
SECTION- I                                                                2
1.1    History                                                            2
Fourtlh JBRD Highway Project - Loan 2814                           5
1.2   Project Identification and Development                              5
1.3   Project Components                                                  6
1.4   Project Objectives                                                  7
1.5   Post Pro ject Review of PC-I                                        7
1.6   Post Project Review of SAR                                          8
1.7   Changes to tlle Project from Oiiginal Concept                       8
1.8   The World Bank Loan Agreement                                      10
1.    Special Account                                             10
2.    Employment of Consultants                                   11
3.    Construction Industiy                                       11
4.    Internationlal Competitive Bidding                          11
5.    Maintenance                                                 12
6.    Pro ject Management Cell                                    12
SECTION - 11
PROJECT IMPLEMENT ATION                                                  1 3
2.0   Civil Works                                                        13
2.1    General                                                           13
2.2   Tender Documents                                                   21
2.3    Bids and Awards                                                   21
2.4   Project Management & Supervision                                .  22
-1i-



DESCRI TION                                                 PAGE No.
2.5   Soutlhe-n Goup Contracts                                          24
2.5.1  General                                                   24
2.5.2  ConLract No. I (Karachii-Hyderabad I)                     26
2.5.3  Contract No. 2 (Karachi-Hyderabad II)                     29
2.5.4  Contiact No. 3a (Hyderabad-Hala)                          32
2.5.5  Contract No. 3b (Hala-Sakrand)                            34
2.5.6  Contract No. 4 (Sakrand-Moro)                             34
2.6   Northierin Group Contracts
9 6.1 Gcneral                                                    35
2.6.2  Contiact No. 5 (Qadirpur-Miancihannu)                     36
2.6.3  Conitact No. 6a (Mianchannu-Cliak Behni)                  37
2.6.4  Contract No. 6b (Chak Behni-Sahiwal)                      39
2.6.5  Contiact No. 7a (GuJjranwala-Chenab River)                41
2.6.6  ConitLact No. 7b (Chenab Bridge-Kharian)                  43
2.6.7  Contiact No. 8a (4 major Bridges, between Gujranwala
and Khariain)                                             45
2.6.8  Contiact Nos. 8bh & 8bll (Rehabilitation of existing
Carriageway from Gu jranwala to Rawalpindi)               47
2.6.9  Contract No. 8hT (Rehabilitationi of existing Carriageway
from GuLjranwala to Jhelum)                               52
2.6.10 Contract No. 8blI (Rehabilitation of existing Carriageway
from Jlielum to Rawalpindi)                               54
SECTION - III
MAINThNANCE                                                            68
3. 1   Gcner al                                                         68
3.2   Developimneit of Lthe Mainteniance System                        69
3.3   Imeplementation of the Maintenance System                        69
3.4   Funding of Mainitenianice Works                                   69
3.5   Traffic Enginiceing Unit                                        70
3.6   Pavement Monitoaing Unit                                         71
3.7   Detailed Repor-tinlg of Mainiteiance Activities and Achievements
Lulider- Fourtil Highway Project                                 71
-11-



DESCRIIPTION                                                 PG     o
SECTION - IV
HIGI [WAY SAFETY                                                        721
4. 1   General                                                          72
4.2   Establishment of Pilot-Scale Highway Patrol                       7
*      ~~4.3   Establishment of a Driving Instructor Training School             73-
4.4   Discussion on Traffic Safety in Pakistan                          74
SE-cTION - V
TECH NICAL AsSISTANCE To BALoC IISTAN                                   75
5.1   General                                                           75
5.2    Developmnent of a Proposal by C&W Department, Balochistan        75
5.3   Implementationi                                                   75
5.4   Financial                                                         76
5.5   Assessment of the Component                                       76
SrI,CTION - VI
FOuwm'n HIGdIWAY PRZOJECT - CONSULTANTS                                 77
6. 1   General                                                          77
6.2   Pr-oject Management Consultants                                   77
6.3   Financial                                                         79
6.4   Constr-uction Supervision Consultants                             79
6.5   Financial                                                         80
6.6    Maintenance Consiiltants                                         81
6.7   Financial                                                         8
6.8   OthlerConlsultanlts                                               81
6.8.1  Supervision                                               81
6.8.2  Feasibility and Prcliminaiy Design                        82
6.8.3  Documenits                                                82
~~'Z  ~6.8.4  Specialists                                                       82
6.8.5  Finanicial                                                82
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 



DESCRIPTION                                                  pAGE No.
SECTION - VII
7.0   Evaluation of Contractors                                         83
7.0.1  General                                                   83
7.1   Individual Conltiactors                                           83
7.1.1 J&P (Over.seas) Limited                                    83
7.1.2  SECA                                                      84
7.1.3  Nazir and Company (Pvt) Limited                           84
7. 1.4  Husnain Construction Company (Pvt) Limited               85
7.1.5  Saadullah Khan and Brotihers (SKB)                        85
7.1.6  Glhulam Rasul and Company (GRC)                           86
7.1.7  Mohandasin-e-MasLid                                       86
7.1.8  Otlhe- Contractors                                        87
S17CTION - VIII                                                         88
8. 1   Achiievement of Project Objectives                               88
8.2   Discussioni or Project Achievemeiits                              90
8.3   Summatized Project Financial Information                          91
8.3.1  Gencral                                                   91
8.3.2  Loan Disbi-semcent                                        91
8.3.3  Govelmnent of Pakistan Funds                              92
CONTRACTORS                                                             94
1.    Bidding                                                           94
LEsSONs LEARNT                                                          96
. ivi,



LIST OF FIGURES
DESCRIPTION                                                        IELGRE
Project Development Schedule                                            1
Project Components                                                      2
Location of Planned Civil Wor-ks (Map of Pakistan)                      3
Planined Phiasing of Civil Wor-ks                                       4
Actual Phiasinig of Civil Woi-ks                                        5
Actual Locations of Civil Works (Map of Pakistan)                       6
Planned Vs Actual Phiasing of Civil Works                              7
FHP Project Maniagemeiit & Super-visory Organization                    8
Planned Vs Actual Schiedules & Evaluationis (Southemn Contracts)       9
Contr-act 1 - Pr-ogr-ess & Financial Record                            10
Contr-act 2 - Pr-ogress & Finanlcial Recor-d 
Contr-act 3a - Progress & Finiancial Recor-d                           12
Plannied Vs Actual Schiedules and Evaluation (Nor-thiem Group)         13
Conitract 6a - Pr-ogr-ess & Financial Recor-d                          14
Contract 6h - Pr-ogm-ss & Flinancial Recor-d                           15
Conitract 7a - Progress & Flinancial Recor-d                           16
Conltract 7b - Progrecss & Finanicial Recor-d                          17
Contr-act 8a - Pr-ogr-ess & Financial Record                           18
Contract 8b1 & 8h11 Original Pavement Designs                          19
Contract 8b1 - Progress & Financial Recor-d                            20
ContraCt 8bl - Pavement Designs                                        21
Contr-act ShJl - Pavemnent Designs                                     22
Conitract 8bl1 - Pi-ogress & Financial Recor-d                         23
Schiedule of Disbursement & Actual Disbur-sement                       24
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -



LIST OF TABLES
I LE -l.            DusRxnm
I               Chronological Order and Amount of each Loan
2                Major Changes to the Project
3               The Actual Civil Works Implemented
4                The Actual Status of the all civil works contracts
5                Status of Maintenance Funds
6               PMC's Major Tasks Outside of their TOR
7                Rate of Progress Achieved by the major Contractors
8               Objectives and Accomplishments
9                Basic Loan Information
10 IQDetail of Funds Released from GOP
;   1 I         Summary of the Bid Awards
12 I ZPercentage of total civil works value was awardedto which
Contractor
- vi -



LIST OF ANNEXURES
ANNEXURE        DESCRIITION
A              Projecl PC- I
B              Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
C              Loan Agreement (Loan 2814 Pak)
D              First Round Tender Documents
E              2nd and 3rd Round Tender Documents & Prequalification
Documents
F              Round I Bid Evaluation Report
G              Bid Evaluation Report - Haro Bridge
H              Round 2 Bid Evaluation Report
I              Round 3 Bid Evaluation Report
J              Consultanlt's Final Repoirt - Southern Contracts
K              Consultant's Final Report - Northern Contracts
L              Final Maintenanice Report
M              Consultant's Final Repor-t - Assistance to Balochistan
N              Management Consultant's Inception Report
0              FHP "As Built Drawings" - All Contracts
- vii -



FHP Final Report
PROLOGUE
This repor-t presents a factuial r-ecord of the implementation of the Fourth IBRD Highway Project.
The report gives dietails of the initial feasibility of the project anzd the development of the project
comiponenits. The foutr ma(jor comiponenitsof thepr-oject are discussed in detail and factual data is
presented.for eachi component.
Each of .he civil works construction contracts is documented together with design information and
constr.4ction histaiiy. Both textanid graph1s are used to clepictphysicalprogress and payment history.
The effectsof escqitation and su,vibsecqteiemt legislaition are discussed together with their im-pact on the
pro9ject.
Inf'irnttion is given regarding the various consulting engineering firms which participated in the
p,roject, thef"- Term7s o f Rfer'ence, reports anid p)eformance.
Th7e developmnent of ai Highway Mfaintenance System is documiented and the imiplemientation and
effectiveness of th  ytmae discussed.
A sectioni oj the r-el:,,w tceails brief ply with tite ltransition of!he Notionial Highway %oard , the National
Hfigh way Authority.
Tb e report gives asuimmary of th7e pr-ojlecaccompillishm)ientse andaasection is devoted to lessons learnt.
A
,. .~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~r



FHP Final Report
SECTION - I
1.1   HISTORY
The World Bank (The Intemational Bank of Reconstruction and Development) and the
National Highway Autlhoity (originally the National Highway Board) have enjoyed a close
association for3 decades. Commencing with theconstruction of theSuperHighwaybetween
Karachi and Hyderabad in the nineteen sixties the World Bank has assisted with the financing
of over 1,000 kilometres of highways in Pakistan, which represents 15 percent of the total
National Network.
Between 1964 and 1993 a total of US$  '1.5 m;ilion (does not include flood relief) in loans
have been sanctioned by IBRD 'or hi4w .ay development and rt-c.  istruction in Pakistan. Of
this amounlt US$ 295 million will have been utilized by Decendhei 1995. With Government
counterparL f Iding t'iis represents a total iivestment of about US$ 600 million or in terms
of 1993 Rupees about Rs 18 billion.
The following Table  !ives the chronological order and amount of each loan.
TABLE NO. 1
IBRD
Ilighwszay    Loan A runt.   Date of Imple-
Project No.   (Million}     -mentation       PjLelDescriptiori
lst        US$ 17        1964-1968       Super Highway construction and 3 major
bridges.
2nd        US$ 35         1971            Planned reconstruction of Lahore-Sahiwal and
Lahore-Mianwali highways. Cancelled due to
high costs of construction.
3rd        US$ 5)        1982-1985       Reconstruction of 250 kms of National High-
way Rohri-Kotdiji, Khairpur-Nowshera,
Peshawar-Charsaddah, Lahore- Sahiwal
4th        US$ 152        1987-1994       Dualization and reconstruction of 570 kms of
Nationial Highway N-5 including all struc-
tutes.
Dualizaltion
-Kaachi - Hyderabad
Kyeaha. - ild ..l
flA'eraba F:'a
Mianchannu - Sahiwal
Gujranwala - Kharian
2



FHP Final Report
Reconstruction/Rehabilitation
Gujjranwala - Rawalpindi
Technical Assistance
Development of a Maintenance System for
National Highways. Technical Assistance to
the provinces.
Road Safety Improvement program.
Institution Strengt,hening of NHA.
TSP        US$ 77.5        1991-1995       Maintenance, Resurfacing and rehabilitation
of approximately 400 kms of National High-
way, Technical Assistance
Flood Relief   US$ 50        1993             RestorationofselectsectionsofNationalHigh-
ways that were damaged in the 1992 floods.
In additioni to the Bank's ma jor r ole of assisting tlit-oughl loans to finance tlle direct costs of
higlhway constr-uction, the Worlld Bank has been instrumental in assisting the Governmentof
Pakistan in establislhing thle National Higlhway AuLhority, an autonomous organization under
the Ministry of Communiications whichi is entrusted with the planning, developmcnt,
maintenanice and oper-ation of PakisLanI's national highway network system.
The Goverinmncit of Pakistani neootiated the First Highway Project loan with the World Bank
durinig 1963. This initial World Bank loan was for US$ 17 million, which along with
cquivalcnt flulIds in Rupees l;rom the Government of Pakistan, was utilized to build the Super
Highway between Kaiaclii and Hyder-ahad, a distance of 120 kilometres and three major
bridges on the G T Road, N-5. The Super Highway, 7.3 meters (24 feet) wide with paved
shoulders was the first modem, high speed highway, to he constructed in Pakistan. The Super
Highway, built by the Italian contractor Astaldi, (after the firm had completed substantial
work of the Tarbela Dam) served with minimum maintenance, as a major, heavily trafficked
higlhway for l 8 years, wlen il 1986 the Highiway was overlaid to extend the useful life of the
high way, possibly for anotiher- 10 years.
A loan of US$ 35 million for the Second Highway Project was negotiated between the
Governmnent of Pakistan and the World Bank in 1969, immediately following the success of
the First IBRD Higlhway Project.
Piior to loan evaluation and negotiation, the Government had identified, subsequent to
feasibility studies and financial justification, two sections of highway to be reconstructed.
A section of the G T Road, N-5 from Sahiwal to Lahore and the Lahore-Sargodha-Mianwali
link.
Suibsequient to r-eceiving conltractor's bids for the two sections, the Government decided that'
thle costs werec too hiighi, and r-egr-ettably, thle Second IBRD Highway Project was cancelled
3



FHP Final Report
in June 1971. Negotiations for a loan for the Third IBRD Highway Project were commenced
almost a decade after the Second Highway Project had been cancelled and in 1982 a loan for
the amount of US$ 5( million was finalized for the Third IBRD Highway ProjecL
The Thir d IB RD Highway Proiect consisted of the reconstruction of three major sections of
the G T Road, N-5. Rohfi to Kotdiji, 45 kms, Khairabad to Nowshera, 29 kms, Peshawar to
Xl         Charsadha, 27 kms and Lahore to Sahiwal, 150 kms. Construction work, awarded to local
construction companies was commenced in 1982 and substantially completed 4 years later
in 1986.
Under the Third IBRD Highway Project a total of 251 kilometres of 7.3 meter w ide, asphalt
concrete paved highway with hard shoulders was successfullycomrpleted at atot. Icostofless
than US$ 80 million of wlhich 50 percent was provided under the World Bankloan agreement
anld 5 percentby the Governmentof Pakistan. In terms of 1993 Rupees thecostperkilometre
of constuLiction was approximately Rs 5 million per kilometre.
Idenltilication & appraisal by the Wol-id 3ank for a Fourth IBRD Highway Project com-
menced in November 1984. Loan negotiations between the Government of Pakisran and the
World Bank for a US$ 152 million loan were concluded in early 1987.
4



FHP Final Report
FOURTH IBRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN NO. 2814
1.2 PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND DEVELOPMENT
The pro ject was identified by the National Highway Board in co-operation with the Planning
Division and the National Transport Research Centre (NTRC).
The initial project concept, which consisted of four separate components was the subject of
numerous meetings between personnel of the National Highway Board and the World Bank
during 1985 and 1986. These discussions cumulated initially in the publication of the PC-
I followed shor tly by the publication of the World Bank Staff Appraisal Report during early
1987. The PC-I (original and revised) is given as Annexure "A" and the World Bank Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) is given as Annexure "B". During the latcr palt of the above
desc:ibed prroject development, the consultants, STV Lyons and Associates were engaged by
the National Highway Board to oversee the Technical Development of the project. The STV
Lyon's conisultancy was fitnanced tlhrough thle Technical Assistance component of the Third
IBRD Higlhway Project.
The NHB also awarded six design consultancies to local consultants in order to prepare the
(lesign, constructioin drawings and bid documents for the sections of highway selected to be
inCludLC(I in the project. The fees of these consultancies were also covered by the Third
Higlhway Project ftunds. Tile loan for Fourth IBRD Highway Pro.ject No. 2814, for US$ 152
imillion (US Dollars one hudlldred and fifty tuA.) million only) was negotiated between the
World Ban,k and tlie Gover-:inment of Pakistan (Economic Affairs Division, Minir!ry of
Finance (EAD)) durinc, mitcd 1987 anld was signedand became effective 10 September 1987.
The Project Development Schedule is shown on the following Figure - 1 and the loan
agreement is given as Annlexur-e "C".
1.        Figure- 1
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULE
Description            1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 199011991 1992 1993 1994119951
PROJECT CONCEPT   _ 
PROJECT IDENTIFICATION
iECHNICAL DESIGN
PROJECT PC-1
World Bank Staff Appraisal Report
World Bank Loan Negotiations
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION     .       .
lst Round Contracts
2nd ! ound Contracts
3rd  Rouind  Contracts        .__.............__
5



FHP Final Report
1.3  PROJECT COMPONENTS
The Fourth IBRD Highway Pro ject was planned primarily as a project to address dualization
and/or reconstruclion of selected sections of the N-5 National Higlhway. The major portion
of the planned Finances were assigned to the costs of civil works. However the project did
have three other components as detailed in the PC-l and SAR.
The four major project components are:
1. Civil Works                     The dualization of the N-5 and other associated con-
struction works.
2. Maintenance of
National Highwvays              Technical assistance for the development and imple-
mentation of a Maintenance System for National High-
ways
3. Higlhway Safety                  Develop a Pilot Highway Patrol on a section of the N-5
and implementation of a Driving Instructor's Training
Schiool.
4. Assistance to tlhe
Provinces (Balochiistan)        Technical Assistance to the provincial Communica-
tions and Works Departments.
IncluIded witlinl these four main components are several sub-components which are depicted
oni the following Figure - 2.
Figure - 2
Fourth IBRD H ighway Project
(Rs 3,652.7)              (Rs 175.2)                 (Rs 60.8)               * (Rs 29.8)
CIVIL WORKS              MAINTENANCE                 HIGHWAY                ASSISTANCE TO
SAFETY                BALOCHISTAN
Rehabililation oa seleded  Improvements to           Eslablishrrent of a      Instrucional
portion of the N.5        maintenance and Iralfic   piiot . scale highway     irrprovements to
Highway and associated    engineerng on Nalional    petrol. Expansion of      Balochistan C&W
bridges                   Highway                    the national driver      Department.
instruction training
_  .   school.
Studies For Future Highway And Road Transportation
Projects And Training & Technical Assistance.
Oriainal Budget As Per S.A.R. (1987)
6



FHP Final Report
I           The four main project comlponeints for financing purposes were divided into 5 categories:
1.    Civil Works
Z.    TeLhnical A;sist,a.ce
Purcliase of Vehicles and Lqk3ipn._i
4.    Operating Costs
5.    Buildingm
1.4   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The prinicipal ob jectives of thle Fourth IBRD Highway Project were:
(a)   ti lower transportation costs on the Karachi-Peshawar N-5, National Highway
by road rehabilitation (Civil Works);
(b)   to develop thie capacity of the National Highway Board (National Highway
Authiority) to plaii and nianage lhiglhway maintenance and operation, and to
introduce modern techinical and rinancial management practices;
(c)   to improve traffic safety on Nationial Highways;
(d)   to develop the capacity of Pakistani contractors to execute mainitenance and
rehabilitation wvorks using modern techniques, equipment and materials;
(e)   to continue to mobilise revenues from  road users for the maintenance of
National Higihwvays.
1.5   POST PROJECT REVIEW OF PC-1
The Project PC-I developed by tlhe National Highway Board during 1986-87 (attached to this
report as Annex "A") has ser-ved thl-oughiout the project as a useful guide in establishing and
mainitaininig the various suhi-ogalnizations within the NHA responsible for carrying out the
various tasks associated witl the project. In so far as the ma jorcomponent of the pro ct, Civil
Works (construction) was conceriled the PC-i has proved to be an extremely useful
document throughlout the pro ject. and has been extensively referred to as the "Engineer's
Estimates".
The otlher project components. Higlhway Safety and Assistance to Balochistan are weekly
portrayed and the Maintenance component was given negligible input.
As the oflicial GOP project docume1t, the PC-I was used by management as a basis forcost
and schedule control. It is a gr-eat pity that the authors of the PC- I and the authors of the World
Bank Staff Appraisal Report did not liaise more closely during the preparation of these
documents. Thcre ar e some substantial diffeirences in the concept and estimated costs of the
7



FHP Final Report
project componenits whicih were a continuous source of mis-understanding throughout the
project. The overall estimated cost of theproject as reported in the PC-1 was Rs 4,800 million,
whilst the SAR estimates the overall project cost at Rs 5,039 million. Both documents were
developed using the same exchanlge rates and both the same project components.
The PC- I was revised, as per GOP procedures during the later part of 1994. The revised PC-
I is given in Annexure "A".
T
1.6   POST PROJECT REVIEW OF SAR
The World Bank Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for the Fourth IBRD Highway Project,
published on 14 April 1987, by the Transport Division, South Asia Projects Development,
has proved, throughout the project to be a valuable reference document.
The SAR is attached to this repor t as Annexure "B".
The SAR gives a clear and concise description of the project, with relevant backup
informationl and statistical analysis. The SAR gives a clear statement of the project's
ob jectives (whichi is not found in any other document related to this project) and detailedwrite -,
ups are given of lhow these objectives may be achieved.
The historical developmenit of the project is well documented and serves as'a permanent
record for lutuie projects in esLimating time frames from identification to implementation.
The SAR gives estimated project costs and individual project component costs. Both of
whichi have provenl extremely reliable thioughout the life of the project.
The SAR lias beeni extensively used by NH A management throughout the implementation
of lhe project as a valuable and reliable souice of project infoi.nation.
1.7   CHANGES TO T1rlE PROJECT FF OM ORIGINAL CONCEPT
Dui ing th eiglt year . Nov. l9S.7 r ec. 1995) implemeintations cycle O i^  he Fourh .Highway
Project. there have been several n 1jor deviations from the origina31 1o1 -ct concev U
obljectLives.
The chianges given in this section are those changes which are conside_Zd major and which
were br-ougit about by policy decisions and/or financial issues. Minorchanges to theproject,
individual corn ponenlts and even individual Con tiacts are discussed and just-. fication is given
in othier-sectionis of this report. hle major chai-z.s, reasons for clange and impact are given
on tile following Table 2.
. :,=~~~~~~~~~~~~~



FHP Flnal Report
TABLE - 2
MAJOR CHANGES TO THE PROJECr
l)escription  or     Reason and/or Justification
Change                    of Change                     Impact on Prolect
j1.  1 987:  Delay In       Dclay in loan effcctivencss due to  Late start on initial first Phase civil
award of Initial         delay in availability of       contracts, affecting phases 2 and 3.
construction             couiterpart fun(ling.          One year delay in completion of civil
contracts of 9                                          works.
months.
2'   1 9 89:  Pending        HiehvwaX Patrol                 Major potion of the available funding
action on Highway    Agrecniint could not be reached   for this component was diverted to
Safety  component   belween l cderal and Provincial    physical improvenients of "Black
and eventual re          Authorifies.                   Spots" on N-5.
structuring of this
component                Driver Tralining School
I-ailure to sliow continuatioll of
the prograna with GOP funding.
rFailurc lo provide acceptable long
teri_t   policies & Objcclives.
3.  1 9 9 0:                 Due to (he Gull' War (Kuwait)    The initial impact was to decrease the
Disbursement ratio   carinings frokm Pakistanis abroad   overall project budget due to the
of World Bank loan   were severely curtailcd.           enhanced disbursements by World
funds for payment    Upon request froim EAD, ratio      Bank against civil works con4acts.
of Civil Works,          was increased lor payment of civil
changed  from  51%    works to 70%9 WB share for a      From I Sept. 1990 to 31 Dec. 1994,
WB  contribution to   period of 3 years coiminiencing   disbursements against civil works
70%  WB                  Sept. i99(                     from loan funds were 70% of cost.
contribution.                                           From 31 Dcc. 1994 to 31 Dec. 1995
(loan closing) disbursements against   +
civil works from loan funds reverted
to 51% of cost, other project
_                                                         components were not affected.
4.  1 9 88-1 995:            T'hc reason lor the Iccline in the   The impact on the project has been to
Devaluation  of          Pak Rupee Iiis been thc global   reduce the amount of loan Dollars
Pakistani Rupee          inflation of hard currencies. T'he   utilized for civil works which has had
against the US$.         original WB loaui of US$ 152   thc overall impact of increasing the
The World Bank           millioni realized lls 2,584 million  amount of construction work over the
- -.        loan was signed on   at 1987exchange rates.             original planned.
10 Sept. 1987, at    By close ol' the project the loan of The impact on the project from the
which time the Pak    US$ 152 nillion will liave        different exchange rates has been off
Rupees had an            rcalized .,pprox. Rs 4.000     set lo some degree by Item 3 above.
exchange rate of Rs  million.
17 to US$ 1. Thp
RLtee l:dS ueclined
in strengt[  c-.rlrq
the projeck i'se tQ
Pak Rs 36 to USS 1.
A variati- - in      '
exceS- of1
t. _ . . _ ,-. .. _ . ... ' I~~~~
W  .S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V



FHP Final Report
5   1 991:  Decision to   IlTe alarming rate of detcrioration  The impact on the project was that the
postpone  contracts  t,r the Gujranwala-Rawalpindi      planned cost of civil works increased
3b, 4 & 5 and in         sccioln atTrding a hligher rate of  substantially.
thbir place carry out returii for the project.
rehabilitation of the
Gujranwala-R.Pindi
existing
carriag way.
6.  1991-1992:                The reason was to establish an    The impact on the project was
The  re-organization   Authority with a suitable       initially hegative due to newly
of the NHB to the        organization sItrcture to address   established regional offices lacking
National Highway         the planning, development,    suitably experienced staff.
Authority  (NHA)         operation aned maintenance of
Nalionial I lighways.         Latterly, this has had a positive effect
_______________________                                 with tighter controls on contracts.
7.  1994:                    The World Bank had originally    The impact on the project was that the
Disbursement ratio   agreed to enhancing the ralio for a counterpart funding for civil works
of World Bank loan   pcriod of 3 years, i.c. Scpt. 1990  required to be enhanced. Due to Item
funds for civil          - Sept. 1993. this was exiend for, 4, above the actual effect was that the
works, revert back    an addclitionial year lo Sept. 1994,  available funding for the project
to 51%  WB as of 31   although applied fr, no ftirtief   increased.
Dec.  1994.              extcinsions were agreed to by the
______ _____ ______ ___ [3ank.                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1.8  THE WORLD BANK LOAN AGREEMENT
Loan agzreemlient No. 2814 PK for an amount of US$ 152 million was signed between the 1
Goverinmenit ol Pakistan an( tlhe World Bank (lB 3LD) on 10 September 1987. A copy of the
loan agreemenit is given as Annexure "C" to lhis report.    ir,
In addition to the normal terms and conditionls of the loan such as: loan withdrawal policies,
ptocuLemenit ol services and goods, etc., lhere are several special "covenants" to the loan
agrcement which are discussed below, iciuLding their impact on the project.
1.       Special Account
An allowance was madh by the World Bank to deposit US$ 7 million, from loan funds
inlto a Special Accotint to be opetate(l by the National Highway Authority.
The puipose of tlhe Special Account or Revolving Fund was to reduce delays in
payineit time to conitractors. The eligiible portion of civil works payments were made
dir-ectly from the Special Accounl to the concerned contractor or consultant. Noti-
f'icationl of lthe paymeint, Logctliier with acknowledgement of the payment were then
forwarded to the World Batik who riepatr-iaLed the paid amount directly to the Special
Accoutlt, simultan.eously notilyitig the NHA of the amount drawn from the loan.
Because of tile incteased amouLits of disbursemenits frora the loan due to the higher
;   disbu-semnenLtratio for civil workLs .of0()I Septeinber 1990, the Special Account was
hincrascu to a float ol US$ 9 million.
10



FHP Final Report  !
Generally the Special Accounitsystem or Revolving Fund has operated satisfactorily
d during the lile ol the pro-ject. lnitially there were some delays caused by the banking
,.                    laws in Pakistan, whereby all foreign currency transactions passed through the State
Bank of Pakistan.
4.
In accordanlce witlih hc agreement, the World Bank commenced reduction of the
advance account in Junle 1994, anlicipating the loan closing date of 31 December
1994.
Due to some ouLstanding civil works and by mutual agreement, the loan closing date
was extende(d to 31 December 1995.
2.      Employment of Consultants
As acovenalnt Lto the loan it is sLipulated that the NHB would engage suitably qualified
and( experienced consultants to assist the NHB in cariying out the project.
The pur-pose of these consultants, as expanded upon in the SAR, would be to provide
techinical assistance lor project management, technical assistance for planning,
progr-amminng and execution ol maintenance and supervisory consultants for thecivil
wor-ks contr-acts.
The NHB complied witli tlie covenanit an(d by late 1987, early 1988, agreements had
beeni signed and consulLanils for Pro jcct Management, Maintenance and Supervision
ha(d becn mobilized.
The technical seivices and super-vision scrvices carried out by the consultants has
henil hiighily beileficiazl to thie NHl A.
Furhrlie details regar-dinig the various consultancies are given in this report underp
SecLion VI - Fourtill liglhway Project Consultants
3.      Construction Industry
The loan agreemenit stipulates tliaL the NHB would establish an inter-agency
commitLee to review import pirocedures pertaining to construction machinery, spare
parts and vehicles.
The comnmitLee was to repoi-t its 1indinlgs by 01 July 1988 to the World Bank. The
covenanl was complied wiLh and a te;port was duly submitted to the Bank.
It should he noted however that du ring the life of the project import procedures, tariffs
and duties pertinienit to these items have been revised and changed several times.
4.      International Competitive Bidding
For civil works bids the agieemiient stipulates that the NHB would follow the World
Bank Procurieent GL uidelines.
11



FHP Final Report
For prequalihication, bid(ing, hid evaluation and award for all civil works contracts
the NHBINNHAcompliedwith theageemneiitand theWorld Bankwerekeptinformed
*                    aL all stages.
Whele necessary and in accorcdance wiLh the agreement the NHB/NHA obtained the
necessaiy "No Objection" fIrom lhe Bank for all awards and for the extension of
conltracts which were foi-eseen to exceed the otiginal bid by more than 15 percent.
The system worked well and pr ovided the necessary checks and balances throughout
the projecl, between the NHA and the World Bank.
%   5.  Maintenance
The loan agreeinenit undeler Schiedule 5, sets folrlh. in detail, an Action Plan designed
to conti-ibutie to the im pr ovement of Maintenance of the National Highway System.
As per the stipulation in thC loan1 agreement, a Alaintenance Directorate was
established, within1 the Nl-IB by 31 December 1987.
T'he Directorate wilh technical assistance fr-om interinaLional consultants developed
aand( implementicdlc a Mainltenanice System for the National Highways.
Techinical Assistance was r e quired for a longer period than originally planned which
had a slight financial impact on the project.
6.      Project Management Cell
Undet ScheduIle 5 of tlhe loan agreement it is stated that the Borrower shall not later
thian 30 Septeinhmer 1987 estahlishi within NHB, and thereafter maintain, a Project
Managemenit Cell (PMC) witli duly qualified and experienced staff in sufficient
nu1i1hers including tlhice Pro ject Management Consultants.
The Project Management Cell witlh the required consultants was established during
November- 1987 and( was lully fuLictiolial thioughout the project. The PMC devel-
oped the necessar-y maniagemncit ancd monitoring systems availing the project of a
successfiul completion.
12



FHP Final Report
SECTION - 11
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
2.0 CIVIL WORKS
2.1    GENERAL
The Civil Works as idenitified in thc PC-I consisted ofdualization of the following reaches
of the N-5 Highiway:
Karachi - Moro             290 kilometres
QadirpUr-Salliwal          153 kilometies
GuLjranwala-Kharian         94 kilometres
Total:       537 kilornetres
In addition to the sections lor dualization the PC-1 identifies four major bridges for
conslructioni hetweein Cu.jranwala and Kharian and the overlay of the existing carriageway
also betweeni GLujranwala and Kharian. The fouL- major bridiges were:
Uppcr Cheniah Canal
P.,lkhlL NulIlahi
Cheliab River-
Blhimber Nuldlai
Thle locations no the civil works as giveni in the PC-I are shown on the following Figure - 3.
The p-roposed annual phasing ol tlie civil works which were to commence in April 1987, is
shiown ol Figure -4. All civil workswereschieduled lorcompletion byDecember 1992. Due
to several reasons amongsl whiich was the delayed signing of the loan (10 Sept. 1987), the
first round ol'FHP coitr-acts wer only awarded during Novemberof 1987, approx. 9 months
late. The actual phiasinig of the civil works is shown on Figure - 5 and the actual locations of
the works are given on Figur c - 6. A compar-ison of planned and actual phasing of the civil
works is giveni on Figiur-c - 7.
Durilg the later par-t of 1990 and the carly part of 1991 it became apparent that the existing
carriageway betwecen Gujjranwala and Rawalpindi was deteriorating at a faster rate than had
previously been anticipated. The rapid deterioration was attributed to three major factors,
i                  J .    Thie unipirece(lenited traflic girowthi, on tihis sector, particularly between Jhelum and
-g                       Rawalpindi.
2.    The delay in completionl ol tlie dualization between Gujranwala and Kharian.
3.    The delay in awardinlg a contract for the dualization of the CarTiageway between
Khar-ian and Rawalpindi, whichi was to be frinanced by funds from the private sector.
13



FHP Final Report
Due to the raipid deteriioration ol tlle existing N-S between Gu iranwala and Rawalpindi, the
National Highiway Boarid approaclied tihe World Bank witlh a request to delay FHP contracts
3b, 4 andi 5 (Hala-Sakrand, Sakrand-Moro andi Qadirpur-Mianchannu, Total 182 kms) and
instead of tlhese, rehabilitate the existing caltiageway between  Kharian and Rawalpindi.
Economically the proposal made senise anid tlhe Bank agreed.
Thuis a nia jor cihanige lfroil the plannicd pr-, Oject civil works was sanctioned and implemented.
Conitacts lor [lie overlay of 216 kins ol existinig N-S between Kharian and Rawalpindi were t
awarided in place ol FI-IP coiltiacts 3b, 4 anid 5.
The seconl(d  major chianige to  lihc planincd  civil works was brpught about by the virtual
cancellation ol the plarned I-l ighiway Salfety compionent. Funds wilich had been budgeted for
a Drivinig Schiool and( a Pilot l-lighway Patrol were utilized  for several minor civil works
schlCines to pihysically iilipirove black spots on tlhe N-S Higliway. The actual civil works
iimplemented dLur ing tih  Fourth l-liglhway Prolject are shown in tabular form  on the following
Tahle 3.
Table - 3
SECTiON                        LengCh Cnt
Kn-nchi - Hiyderabad -I                         63              I
Karachi- Hyderlhad -Ii                          67              2
Hyd-arahd - Hala                                45             38
Mi,chlannu - Chnk Beh-i                         40              6a
Chak Behni - Snhiwnl                            41              6b
Gui-nw.ln - Chench                              49             7a
Clrnab - Kharinn                                45             7b
Brirl ges ono Corrlract 7a nnd 71,              -              84
Gujranwln - Jhelumr                             P6             Bb-I
Jlralurnl - Ravtipmndi                          61            8b-11
Wan Ga,rl.n Bridge                                            6030
Taxil. Improve-ent Schr-me                                     6032
Hassanabdal Inlerseclior, N-5                                 6034a
H.ssann,,dal Intersecliorn N-35                               6034b
Rnwalpindi I-nprovearnrI                                      6036
Wnzirabad Bypas-                                              6037
Mnr9atla Hul  pro'yenenl                      Minor           6042
Consirtcli.n of Il nro Bridge                SCheMes          8001
Reconslruclion & Relinblnlion of PrIdges    Hassanabdai       8002
Reconstruclion & RehabililInlion of Efridges  *Wazlrbad       8003
nleconslruclion & Rehabilitntion of Bridges                   8004
Guiranwana to Dinn                                            8005
Dinn to Solin-a                                 Major         8006
Sohawn to Misa Kaswan                          iridges        8007
Misn Kaswal lo Guiar Klm,n                    at Chenab       8008
GLujar Khnn to Riwnalpindi                                    8009
ReconsLruction of BR,dgP                                      8010
Construction of R.Y.K Canal 6ridge           5 Drainage       8011
Construction of Minchin Cnnal BrIdge          between         8012
Old Hyderab;.d Hnin Cnrrinagewny     \      Guranwala -       8013
Old Hydernbnd i-Inta Carringeway             Rawalpindi       8014
Olcl Hydernbad Hain Carringewny                               8015
Okl i -yderabad Hala Carriageway                              8016
Old i-lyderabad H,la Cnrringewny                              8017
-J tES      ,Old Hyderahad HI-Ifa Qarringaway      |8018
Drainage SiructtireiAsphall O/L            Rehabillp'ion     8019
Drainage SlrcutUre/Aspirnil O/L                of Old         8020
Drainnae Sr'Uclure/Asphalil O/L             Carriageway       8021
U                            ~~~~~~~~between
Drainage Slrtcture/Arphali OIL               Hyderabad        8022
and Hala
14 4
Pr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i, 



-  Li:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hta
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS BOARD                               (f
I Location of FHP Projects   v
;^                               t          xwa| CO~~~~~~~~~~~NTRACT -81
.                J      B      i {        ,         AIiSriap vi CNTRAC     
*z>2   ^{,J    \ {         /      /         \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nwnala
t t1 t | CONT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RACT-6                |          Lre
f                 N~~~~~~-70) I     
|   Kala!       
;  ox    ,r,                         X  ~~~~~~INDIA
Khujzdar                       ,   5 
mZ            //         J-
COTA                            TAtf
|   Da28gONTRA
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fgr -el    3X



tu~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                                      **-.*
ANNUAL PHASING OF PHYSICAL WORK AND
FINANCIAL REQUIREMENT FOR THE PROJECT
Cont                                          Approx.
ract                Section                     KM          1986-87          1987-88          1988-89           1989-90          1 99 0-91        1 991-92          1992-93
ract                Sctaa   Phase7I                                                  _  1                                  I
1     Karachi -Hyderabad  Phase-                   68                                     Rs. 363 Million
_                                                     _  :.''.  . J,. 2Eh    i .'':'::.:X.r,y.:S ................. . X s.t 4.E.>.S.t .. ;X.* t{: ^...:.. .....:..     .     ....     .... . .. ...... ..._
2    Karachi - Hyderabad  Phase-l1                 67                                                           Rs. 333 Million
"y''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'...                                     ':.:.:.'.'" ...... .... ,  , ..,.........  ...........
L  -   -_______________________________ __ __              _                   _      ____        .. .. ..
3a   Hyderabad - Hala Town                         45                    Rs. 235 Million
_______ ____ ..x.:.:.:.:.:~.-7j.x~.:... _4                                                 ____   I__.
3b   Hala Town - Sakrand                            44                    Rs. 230 Million
.. -,,,,~~~~. ...,....R ..............
_   -~~                                      ~         ~~~ -   *x'''''''1'''''1'''''  _ -x:~                                                                               1
4    Sakrand - Moro                       1        66                                                                             Rs, 379 Million
End of Oadar Pur - Mianchannu    , 
5    Bypass                                        72                                                                             Rs. 338 Million
6    Mianchannu - Sahiwal                         R81                                    Rs. 473.22 Million
l                                                                  l  I   I   .. .   : .": e'sEs:4:i:: ....... ySz"f I: ...... ''':f i:"'-'''''''''l I I I I~~~~~..... ......
70  fGuiranwala - Chenab rBni&e                     49                    Rs. 286 Million
7b   Chenab Bridge - Khanan                         45                    Rs. 263 Million                                                    :t
L  X  I aa- y /MX: Z:gHTal l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ..........                                                                                                           '      | Ia
Guiranwala - Kharian Overlay - &                                                                                                                                                    1
18    Bridges                                |    51.11                                                                              Rs. 320 Million                                      Co
CD
I     _  _   _  _   _  _   _  _ I           _ _   _       -            I*                                      *~ I  I.                     4a I  1____1                                                 ,
*                                           >        l z    bb~a 
4.;'



FOURTH HIGHNVAY PROJECT                                                                                                     LoanI losmgDal  
ANNUAL PHASING  OF CIVIL WORKS                                                       Payoa                        December 31St,95
SECTION              Length   Cont    Cost           |         1987-88    1988- 19989-o              1 1990-91     1991-92      1992-         1993-94       1994-95       99
( Km)     Nio-     Dur'n  CoFtrac        tr o                                                                        t |   D      A  S
KARACHI-HYDERASAD I            68        1     52 Months
KARACHI-HYDERABAD If           67        2     65 Momh 
HYDERAEAD-HALA                  46       3A      Rs. 279                               -           - - - - - - -
__________________________  _______38 Monthrs                                                                                                         _________
MIANCHANNU-CHAK BEHNI    39.2             6A      Ps. 52-1
As,l a                                                                             
CHAK BEHNI-SAHIWAL            41.4       68    4                                                     '                         '      '
GUJRANWALA-CHENAB             48.7       7A                Na5ir & Co
____96 MorUS
CHENAB-KHARIAN          |      44 S5    7 o78   Mosh 37Y    I Nai...r P Go           Zf     Wl   
97 Month-                                    ----------____
BRIDGES 7A & 78                 _        8A      RS1Z    Ghu!am                                              . .....
GUJRANWALA-JHELUM             85.94      884  M|_ 1.9
JHELUM - RAWALPINDI           60.73     8B-                   ja| 4a Mcn h                                                                                                    .....
________________________  _______48 Morn
HARO BRIOGE                     _       8001    17 Marth|
RYK CANAL BRIDGE              0.032     8011   I8 Months_                                   ________L
MINCHINABAD CANAL BR.    0.046    8012   15| Morths                                        |_
MINOR SCHEMES                   -               AS MoM_h    _ VARIOU
MINOR CONTRACTS    | 13. !..                              VARIO0JS
Gb, 7*             IOMorthn
ORIGINAL PC- Finih Date
G D3   (          TOTAL ALL CONTRACTS Rs. 6.168                                                         (Dec.31 1992)
LEGEND                                                              All armunIs in Mi8ions of Rs                                                                                    Z
1-: :; :;;- :'.:: -:: :: I  ORIGrNAL COhtPLETKON                      )                 FHP Contracls 3b, 3c, 4 and 5
ACTUAL PROGRESS                                                          Toltal Leh 182 Km MiHion have been dropped from tIhe Project.
PHASE I CONTRACTS - START DATE: Novenber 1987                             Cot iMncluded hi Minor Schemes.                                                                       21   |
PHASE 11 CONTRACTS- START DATE: Jue 1969 g                                                                                                                                       _    
PHASE IIl CONTRACTS-START DATE: N      -oveber1981                                                                                    December 1995
*       0



a                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FHP Final Report
e                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Figure - 6
C~~~HINA
$\  aAKASHMIR
AHABIAN SEA/bD   
_ }Qv7 1 ' WW "f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ino  Cotat
W f:_AN  0j 4



COMPARISON OF PLAN AND ACTUAL CIVIL WORKS
ANNUAL PHASING OF PHYSICAL WORKS                                                                                                     U
Con                                 Approx
tract           Section               . KM     1986-87    1 987-aa    1988 -89    1989-90    1 99 0-91    1 99 1 -92    199 2-93    199 3- 94    1 99 4-95    199 ;-96
1  Karachi - Hyderabad Phase-I       68                .    -   >            .     .             -
2    Karachi - Hyderabad Phase-11    67                                                             -                                                -:
3a  HIyderabad - Hala Town            46                   -           -                 -                                              ___.  . . _. - ._ _ _ 
=  PLANNED
3b  Hala Town - Sakrand               44
4   Sakrand-Moro                     66
End of Oadar Pur - Mianchannu
5   Bypass                           72
6a  Mianchannu - Chak Bheni          39 2 
6b  ChakBheni-Sahiwal                41.4                                                       7::
=~~~~~ __   _ _:,......:  ,StSs45fl     
7a  Guiranwala - Chenab Bridge       48.7           .
7b Chenab Bridge - Kharian           44.5             s.'                        .____
Guiranwala - Kharian Overlay - &                                                                  I                  I
8   Bridges                                                                             I Ij
8b-1 Gujranwala - Jhelum Overlay     85.94
8b-lI Jhelum - Rawalpirdi Overlay    60.73                                                                        I.s
_ _ ___    ._    _IIIIIl                                                                                                                        _                               (D  1 
01 
s._



FHP Final Report
The first r-ounld ol' civil works contracts started on  19 Januai-y  1988 (Gujranwala-Kharian,
Karachi-Hyderahad  I and  Flyderahad-Hala) and  lhc  last'major civil works to  start were
comm-neniced( in mid Decccmrcr 199 1. ThLus actual plhasing of civil works was over a period
ol' amost exactly  lour years.
Co mnpletion  dates ol' th   vario(s civil wirks con tr-acts varied considerably for a number of 
1rcasonis, whichi are furt-hiei  elab)oraed(   psonl in tliesection of this reportdealingwith individual 
7.              CcontracLs.
Al I tend(leedl works with litle exception of the "Minor Contracts" consisting of bypass fencing,
median drai n- age and shoulder work wCIee sLihstantially comnplete by the extended loan closing
date, 31 Decemberz 1995.
Tle actual status ol' all    civil works contracts as of the loan closing, 31 December 1995 is
given  in the detailedi desc riptioIn  of' eciich coLntract and also in summary form  on Table 4.
SEDU1Q                   (Rs___  _  __l                Table- - 4
Karachi - HyderaNd -1                            68               1            341        100
Karachl - Hyderabad -11                          67              2             467         93
Hyderabad - Hala                                 45              3a            206        100
Minnchalnnu - Chair t ehnl                       40              6a            441        100
Chaki Behni - Sahlwal                            41              6b            381        100
GuIranwaln - Chenab                              49              7a            584         97
Chenab- Khmrian                                  46              7b            341        100
8ridges on Coniracl 7a and 7b                    -               8a            250        100
GOiranw.la - Jhelu,m                            8W              8b-1          1084         75
Jheltin, - Rawalpindl                            61             8b-i1          755         86
Wah Gn-drn Briige                                               6030          48.5        100
Taxila Irprovareeni Scherne                                     6032         10.25        100
Hassann.,bdal Ini-rirserlion N-5                               6034a            9.6       100
Hlassanai-ial IrNAersectior N-35                               6034b            7.4       100
nfawalpirndi Impr,rerrrenl                                     6036            9.8        100
Wazirahbd Bypass                                                6037           9.7        100
Margaln Hills Improvrenrerl                    Minor            6042           9.0        100
Construction of Il-lao Bridge                 Schrem.           8001         51.57        100
neconstrction b Reiehbilletion ol Bridges     btween            8002         20.96        100
H ....nebd.1
neconslruction A Rehabililalion ot Bridges  . W.zlabed          8003         16.07        100
Reconslr0nction a Reh.atilitation of Bridges                   8004           12.9        100
Guirnwnla to Dinn                                               6006          14.2        100
Dina to Sohawa                                   Malor          8006         10.10        100
Sohawn to Misa Kaswai                           Bridge.         6007          9.27        100
Misa Knswnl to (3ular Khan                     at Chen-b        8006          8.26        100
Guier Khan lo Rnwnl4xndi                                        8009          9.18        100
Reconsirtcilon of rkidge                                        8010         13.50        100
Crnsiruclion cl R.Y.K Canal Bridge            6 Drainage        6011         26.69        100
Schemes
Cornsirmciion ot Mincti-n Canal Bridge         between          8012         32.18        100
Old Hyderabad Haln Carriageway               Gujtrerwal. -      8013          8.38        100
OlW- Hyderabad Hale Carriageway               R.wdlpindl        8014           2.6        100
Old Hydernb.d Hale Cariageway                                   8015           2.5        100
Old Hyderabad Hanla CnrrtIngeway                                8016          2.17        100
Old Hyderebad Hain Carriageway                                  6017          5.69        100
Old Hyderabid Hain Carriageway                                  se18          5.82        100
Drainage Sirrcliure/Asphall OA_             Fteh.billltion      8019          9.55        100
Drninage SIrmrcire/AsTaiil OA-.                 of Old          8020          5.31        100
Orniinage Siructire/Asphfa04 Ot        C> rigewt                e 02          2.31        tOO
* :                     Drainage Slmrch tedAsprhnil O4L               Hydernbad         8022           1.76       100
a*nd Hai
,,                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~20



FHP Final Report
s 2.2 TENDER DOCUMENTS
Tend(let- Documenilts F0r t(he lFii-st i-oun(   Fl-I P Conitiacts weie formatted by NHB staff and the
general conistultanlts STV Lyois, the documents were submitted to the World Bank for review
and appipoval. The first rounld Tender Documents were based on FIDIC (1987) tender
documents andl closely lollow these. A sainple first round tender document is given as
Anilexur e D. General SpeciFlications For the F-irst r ound were also formatted by the General
Consultanits, STV Lyons and closely follow AASHTO and CALTRANS Specifications.
Precquali Ficatioil documiiientLs and tenderdocuments forsubsequentFHP contractawards were
lorimlatted by the Project Managemeint Cell of the NHA and generally follow FIDIC 1986
docuinentis. Sample Preqtialil'ication an(d Tender,DocumenLs for Rounds 2 and 3 are given
as Aninextiure E.
The General Speci lical ions were also r evise(d by lhe enginieering firm, Sampak in association
with the PNIC lor coliltailcts awar(led subsequent to the first round.
2.3   BIDS AND AWARDS
Conimenllciig wi ilithe Fir st Rouiind ol  Fl P con tracts, Contracts 1, 3a, 7a and 7b, prequalification
oF conitr actor s coiniliicedl in accordance witi World Bank, lCB Procurement Guidelines in
F7ebruar1y 1987. A total ol 54 iniernational an(d local contractors prequaliFied of which 22
dlr-ew bid (docurnents and 15 ol tlese actually submitLed bids.
Bidlswereexamined( andc evaluated byan NIlB coninitLeeand recommendations for thefirst
roildl oF FT-1P contracts were submihnietd jointly to the Ministry of Communications and the
World Bank tor approval. The Bic EHvaluation Reporit fo Contracts 1, 3a, 7a and 7b is given
as Ainilexie F Contracts were signcd in November 1987 andileLters to proceed issued in mid
January 1988.
PrenliFL:lilication lor lhe Seconid R1lound ol FI-IP contracts was commenced during the early
part ol 1989. A total ol 15 inteilaltional and local conitractors were prequalified for Round
2 contracts oF which I I (drew (lcum1ot.1 s and 9 of tlihse submitted bids.
Round two consisted of FFIP Contracts 2, 6a, 6b and ga.
Th ei received bids wcre cvalulaed by a comml11ittee compr-ised of NHB personnel and PMC.
Recomimiend(lationis ol tlle comitlitee were simultanieously submitted to the Ministry of
Commuinuicationis and( the World Bank lor review andl sanction. The Bid Evaluation Report
is giveil as Aninextiur G.
Roind(l two hids weie awarded and leteris to proceed were issued during the early part of
AuguIst 1989.
TheconiltiacFor thelconisLtIrcLion oFtlihe liaroB Bidge,on tlieN-5 highiway,northofIslamabad
was giveni pr iority (lime to the lighlily dangerous conditioni of the existing bridge.
Suhbcct to an NOC Fromi tile World Banik the co niltact was bid in accordance to LCB and
awaided diurilng Septcemiher l99 ). The Bid Evaluation Report is given in Annexure H.
21
4 



FHP Final Report
"',r-        FouLill Higlhway Project round( three conitacts, consisting of Contracts 8bI and 8bII
(rehabilitation ol the exisling carriageway, Gujiranwala-Rawalpindi) were advertised for
prI-CCequalifiCaIfio1n dtrilg JuLnIe 1991. Four inieiiationial contractors prequalified, three of
wlhichi obtained contiact docuimiiciits and two submitted bids.
The Evaluation Report (or Round Tlrlce contracts is given in Annexure I.
Commencinig in 199, minior schiemies ancd minor contracts were identified, planned,
suhuiiiittecl to the Bank for approval and awarded dtrougliestablisliedLCB procedures tolocal
conltiactors. The lasL minor contiacts to be awardied were during October 1994, whicb were
also subhject to Worild Bank review and "No Objection.
2.4  PROJECT MANAGEMENT & SUPERVISION
For Project Management and Supervision tie Fourth Highiway Project was divided into two
sections:
Sothlllern1 Con tI-rlcts
Northlic-ui Contracts
Thic South-erin Contracis included Contriacts Nos. 1, 2, 3a, 3b & 4.
The Nortrlci-n Contracts consistedi of C(ontracts 6a, 6b, 7a, 7b, 8a, 8bI and 8bll.
For on site superivision, thic N1113 engaged two international consulting firms associated with
one or moire local cieginieeriniig firms.
Projecl Management was undertakers hy ihe Pro ject Management Cell established by the
NFIA and incorporated the scervices of ani Initernational Pi-oject Management Consultant.
Originally the NI B's in tenial organ11ization consisted of one Project Director for eacih of the
SouthllernUl and NorhLeCrn groups ol' Contlracts.
The Fotih-ll Higlhway Project Manageentc-i and Stipeivision Organization is given  on
Fi gure- 8.
:.-
22



FHP Final Report
-
Figure - 8
N H B PROJECT MANAGEMENT
ORGAN ISAT IONJ
CHART
.PROJECT MANAGEMENT CELL
DIRECTOFR GENERAL-
NHB.   
1.
MAINTENANCE
.                    ~~~~~~~PROJECT LEADER -
. -                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~ADVISOR TO PD.
COUNTERPART -
2
#   ROAD SAFETY    PLANNER/PROGRAM       FINANCIAL MGTMT.:
SPE-CIALIST    __COST SPECIA LIST.
     3      _        COVEIEX~~~~~PART     COUNTERPART -               |.
3 
[BALUCHISTAN        PROJECt DIRECTOR    PROJECT DIRECTOR
O~~~NRTH           -1       SOLITH..
4    -          CHIEF RESIDENT      CHIEF RESIDENT
OTHER               ENGINEER            ENGINEER
PROJECTS               NORTH               SOUTH
:  .                       ~~~~~~~~RE SUPE:RVISION  RE SUPERVISiON
CONSULTANTS         CONSULTANTS
.. .                     ~~~~~~NORTHERN CONTRACTS  SOUTHERN CONTRACTS
23



FHIP Final Report
2.S SOUTHERN GROUP CONTRACTS
2.5.1    GENERAL
Conitracts in the Souithern- Girouip werec or-iginally planned to include the following:
Contract
* 0             fNo       Section                  Lcngll(Knh)            PC-1 Estimated
Cost (Rs million)
t   I     Karachi-Tlyderahad 1          68                     362.1
2         Karachi-Hydcrahad 11          67                     332.4
3         Hyderabad-Sakrandl            90                     463.8
4         Sakrand-Moro                  66                     379.6
TToAL:                       291                    1538.0
Conitracts actually conistiructcdi wer-e its Ibollows:
Conitract Sectioni                 Lengtli(Kin)         Actual Construction
No.                                                      Cost (Rs nmillion)
IKarachii-l-lyderahad 1           68                     377.839
2         Karachi-I-lyderahad 1I        67                    508.367
3a        Hyderabad-Hlaha               46                    330.317
TorAHR :                     181                   1216.523
.                                      .~~~~~~~4
Actal conistr-ucted lenigtl was I I (1k iloi-netr-es sliorter thian planned and actual construction
costs were Rs 352 million less than estimated.
Construction of the Souithern Group CointracLs commenced with Contract No. i (Karachi-
Hyderabad I) on 25 January 1988 bul was not substantially completed until 3 January 1994
due to long delays expericniced onu CoCttracL No. 2.
24



FHP Final Report
Planined versus actual constructionl schedules and planned versus actual evaluations areW
given on the following Figure - 9. The consultant's Final Report on the Southerm Group
Contracts is given as Aninexure J.
SOUrI'HERN CONTRACTS
CInILU acts No. 1, 2, and 3a
Conitracts
CoiltriacL No. 1:    J&P Overseas Ltd.   -         Completed.        ;
Conitact No. 2:       Seca now Assigned Lo M/s. HICCL
Conitact No. 3a:     J&P Overseas Ltd.   -        Completed.
*  Supervisoty Consultants
PRC EngineCi-ng Inc. (F. R. Harris) in associationis wiLh Engineering Consultants. (Assignment
Con)1letedl)
Figure - 9
90               S,utllwr, C,,,, muds                                                  1400
.I'Iulnm d  vs. Act-ual Evs,ihsfron,
no80               (Nlilil,,Xq Rs)                                                _.-- t200
0 70                                                                                         A
U                                                                                         1000 C
80        a 
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
r 40                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~600
30
400
20
200e
10
Nf    -                          VA 8~~'0I    M                         FY '93~'0  93/940
Eli Planned Quarterly U  Actual Quarilery  +- Planned Accum    -- Actual Accum
25



tk se   FHP Final Report
:-      2.5.2    CONTRACT NO. I (KARAChII - IfYDERABAD 1)
Contract No. I compr ised the COIiStitLICtiOll of a seconid canriageway between Karachi and
Nooriabad, a total length ol' 67 kilomcti-es plus 5 bridges. Variations to the contract were:
-      Iniclusion or mor-c Culverts
-      Pavement re-design
-      Deletion of paved Shouldters
-      Inicltisioni of 3 Overpassses
-      Deletion of Bridge No. I
-      Detailecd list of V.Os is given at Annexure P  ;
Basic conitact dazla is as follows:
PC- I Estimana:                        Rs 362.1 million
Bicl Amount:                           Rs 292.8 million
Constructed Cost
(Includes VOs, VOP & Claims):          Rs 377.839 million
Contractor:                            J&P (Overseas) Limited, Cyprus
Date of Comilencemieiit:               25 January 1988
Date ofCompletion:                     22 February 1991
ConitacL Time:                         1124 Days
Time Extensioni:                       365 Days
Actual Contiact Tine:                  1489 Days
Actual Contract Completion Dale:       22 Fehbruary 1992
Supeivisor-y Consultants:              PRC Engineering in association with
Enginieeiing Consultants
The start of the contract was initially dlelayed due to inadequate setting out information,
illaCCLlrate anld in soillt cases noni-existenit suivey monuments in the field.
Given surlvey inforImation indicate( tilhat lhe new constLUction would parallel the existing
Superl- Iighway, however thie greater or lessor radii of cur ves had not been accounted for,
thuis a comiplele re-sur vey hoth veriLIcal and hor-izontal of the alignment was conducted by
thecontractor. The firstbridge across the Lyari tiveron the outskirts of Karachi wasdeleted
from the contract as the KDA had alrea(ly started construction of the bridge when J&P
mobilized on site. DuLing an initiail review of the design drawings the Consultants noted
several major points whicil had(l becn omitted from the design the most significant being:
Mediani Drainage and an inadeu(late number of cross-culverts.
On instiuctionis Irom  hlie Project Director the designed surface dressed shoulders were
removed Irom the contiact as beinig unilecessaiy (these were later constructed under a
separate contract, at grealer cost).
26



FHP Final Report
Subsequent to a review ofi the pavemlent design by NHB dur-ing 1989 substantial changes
to lhe dlsigil weeIC madc:
Re-Design
lteml               Original Dcsi'n               (As Constructed)
Aggregate Sub-Base            20c m                     20 cm
Aggregate Base                20 cm                     30 cm
A.C.Base                      23cm                      20cm
A. C. Wearing                   (I                      5 cm
The r e-design, vcteccl anid concdonedl by a Specialist Pavement Consultant, B. A. Vallerga,
was based on1 placinig an additionial 5 cm wearing course within 6 years of operation or a
m1oic substantial overlay dependinig oIn observed pavement behaviour.
Both NHB andl the Worild Bank had expressed concernl regarding the initial FHIPpavement
designs wihicIh were based On miiinilntm thiickness of aggregate sub-base and base and
maximiuiml tihickne ss of asphldt conlcIretc layers.
Withl the readily available supplie.s ol good luality aggregate in the vicinity of Contract 1,
subSta11n1ial savilngs couild hbe icalized by utilizing tlhicker layers of aggregate whilst
rc(iucillg the asIphaIt concreCe thliickness "RuLting" or wheel tracking was also of major
CO11CCIern With Llihe Iuill dcpthi A. C laycrs.
The paveinciit hals IoIW sustainied traffic lor the past 5 years and although some localised
distress iS evidelIt, thc pavement performance is judged. to be overall satisfactory.
Although tileContlract dcIUments had idelLtified die proposed construction of3 overpasses,
no qtuantLiLy allowance for tIle ovurpasses were incoiporated in the BOQ, nor were any
dlesigni details given noi locationis.
Oin completioln of tile contract tluring Fehruary 1991, the 3 overpasses were added to the
conitract as a variation or-derl, making it necessar y to extend the contract period for 365 days.
CoIntract No. I lfiinanlcial iecordl and progress record are given on the following Figure - 10.
i
27



I WnfoV' Ien V-*- wnaoVP puue1d-4-  AiL1J10V4IIi A;I.]LJOV.j fpaeU                                                         3d  [J
11    Z    >                          -n    Z    >                          -n    ~ >                            -ni    Z    >                         -n
CD            c        5         (5       0                  51        C                  r                 (5        0          
e   sr                 9                  9,                          11 Yr {Q @ ,               9  7o                                9         'I      X F
A                                                       t-o       8        to          T.               c        c s                C        0         O        CD
0                                                                                                                                                                   s
n L                                                                                                                                                               0 f  +'; t.oi: 
Ost                                                     .
oai
vooz                     ,-'-0 h                                                                                                                                                    '-
Vo9i
oo
ose                                                                                                                                                               O
%0OO000                                    * -------- ----Pesdej3 awijt %/  Zi 
-; -6                                  -                                                    +)uteiiS o [-)daijS co% 
......................... .... --- ---0-- - -- - 6                                           GIrip-Ol o0!IIj~ %              s 1io i z E.
'00                                                                         Sl''''                      '      ' ''  ''   jeG-01 SSSJ5OJd p;SUUL'ld %A  06   
00 000 699 LL9 Sd                          (rije UeSu94i~x3 + eL.                                   juiiWd Iejo1 61i.. 
91i0 51L'Z           Si                                  91>    s       gi+.si)              P!Cd junlotiv IeN   51i
........................... .. ...... ... ..... ... .. ....... ............................ .... ....      IS        z  
00 SLI"t'z 61   sB                                                                                    sW!CIQ 16101 L 
gi.'ZS0 06091l    sB                                                                           Sd  Ci A joaflhIA   91
............................................................................................................................................... -1. ...........'.I....'a... ...........................I............ "Z
0000001OLZ'6g  se                             Ceuop>pJoM1suoet)                       Glep-0l pe!i!1ISesow   SllW~9
001i'it'I'12t70E   5u                           (ieeu:5u3 eLiXq)                     is'ep-al pe1enjA3 1uiiowiv ''
jii i'ZV6'    stt                                                  (aijnuoDuia ni)sw.iSIEUOISiAOJd Zi
06~0 Z    990Eo   i i   5B                            (0+5                          IufloWV PjeijUO3 FJSiA8BE   ii
01     6 i  9'01t' I'6    58                                               eleGj oi sieOii  u0leu eA jO Oflhl3A   01
.  ---j                                                        (p ibe Toe       i.aq oi]aUAPV GUSi56    6
........................................................................................................................ ........................
00 000'06051   *bi                                                                         peSaAooSjj S3LJIAp\  9
*  r-  ----  ------------- ----*----........................     ...................................................
00 000'060 91 [          B                                                                 S( s)u(ApV  IIeu0Il!ppv    L
........
ootS LI'S 6     9tS'S!                       "'teiqieoe                              SflIjA ' ~IO "- '''jedWeduii2iiii
0Z S;6   1185   'S9-                                                                          u6!seajuieSueqD ''>
'i9 '0  i       ii S       '                                              enieA  jieiju03 peijuflas!           
"0'0.000.000.. i.                                                                                  IUflOOSI. iij. -   -   '.'.'.'.'' '   '  '  6i*  ssij
00'CSL 9i OS'         sjj                                                              enieA j.e.iuoD.ieu!ai            t
Z6-q@:J-ZZ             (Pes!ABE)             sAeo  S99                 :ew11 JOUOiSUGI)3 p9AOJddV
16-q@j-ZZ              (jeu!6uo)           sAeO  tZ   I                     ;e1ea uo!lejdwoD  lvJuoo
*   55.ueJ'9Z                                                                        .IuawDuweAwoD JO jeeA 
vpfl (SSOeSI@O) d7l'
peqeJepAH. - lIBB
L *N 13eJ}uo3 
01. - 6Jf6!1
podej IOULS duP    L
......... ~   ~    ~ ~~ ~..   ................................_K



FHP Final Report
CONTRICT NO. 2 (KARA CIII - HI)'DERALDAD II)
Contitact No. 2 conr prised the constiruction of a second 7.3 metre wide carriageway between
Nooriahad and Hyderabad, a total length or 67 kilomnetres plus 7 bridges.
Variations to the conlract were:
-     Pavement Re-dcsigii
-     Inclusioni of Median Drainiagc & extra Culverts
-     Re-rating of prime items of Work
-     Detailedl list of V.Os is given at Annexure P
Basic conitact data is as lollows:
Contraclor:                         1989 - Seca/AI-Khan
1991 - Seca, Italy
1994 - Assigned to Husnain
Constlction Co. Ltd.
PC- I Estimate:                     Rs 332.4 million
Bid Amounit:                        Rs 283.0 million
Constructed Cost
(Ilcliludes VOs, VOP & Claims):     Rs 508.367 million
Date ol Commncilceimnct:            19 August 1989
Conitact Time:                      1095 Days
Actual Contirct Time:               1598 Days
Actual Contract Comipiletionl Date:    03 January 1994
SuperCvisory Consultants:           PRC Engiineering in association with
Engineerinlg Consultants
In spite ol tlie recommendations made by the Bid EvaluaLion Committee (Bid Evaluation
Report given in Annicxurle G) Contract No. 2 was awarded to the Joint Venture of Seca/Al*
-i       ~~~Kliani.
The Bid Evaluationi Committee lhad(l dtcirminiied that the Joint Venture neither had the
resources 1 tilheexpertience to constrict such a major highiway contract, in adition rates
quotcd especially suh-base were not workable. Conlract No. 2 was awarded and the date
ol commeincemenit was establishdcd as 19 August 1989.
During the first year of the contract, the Joint Venture attempted to mobilize on site,
lhowever mainy pioblems were enicounteied includinig the late arrival of shipments of
u(luipmenit and the local purcliase ofl some sccond-hanld equipment. During the second year
little pirogress was ma(le and setious disagveements developed between the two Joint
Venture cpartners, cumulating in Al-il han pulling out of the J.V and thus leaving Seca (Italy)
as the sole piroprictoir of the contract.
WiLh the inductioni of new manageimicnt Seca were able to maintain a reasonable rate of
4                   prpogress duiring the reniaininig part of 1992 at whichi time the contract again faltered badly,
mainlly duc to caslh flow pirohicilis.
29
r



FHP Final Report
It was evidenl that thtcliontricLor was nol carning sufficient from the monthly evaluaLions
to finallce tlhe puLchasC Of re(quircd mater ials.
Thie contractor pLuL lorthli a plea reqiuesting thaL certain work items within the contract may
be considered lor irc-raLing upwards. claiming that unless cash flow on the projectcould be
Cenhia nced, lie would he u nahic to coni ilete the works. Subsequent to analysing the financial
aspects of the contract, botlh the Engiigcer (PRC Engineering) and the N-A supported the
r e-ratingg proposal as a preferable anid econoinically more viable route than rescinding the
contr-act and re-biddiing it or cominpleting the works under risk and cost.
The lollowinig contract items werc subject Lo re-rating:
I . C~~ranular LSub-hta.se
2.             Aggregate Base
3.             A. C. Base Course
4.             A. C. Wearing CoUIse
5.             Concrete Class "A"
hlle re-i-atiig of lile tubject lItemTs increased the conitact bid amountfrom Rs 283 million
to Rs 431 millioni. an increalse ol a'pproximately 53%. The World Bank were apprised of
the sitation ali( on1 tlic hlasis if' [lie recoin niendationls made by the Engineer and NHA,
a    dgre( lo lic re-iI'ing.
Tlhecontra.ct wassubslallntillycotinpiletceaiid( the Eniginicee issued acertificateofsubstantial
-           coinIPletioll inl accordance witlih tle conllditionls of contract on 03 January 1994.
Thle cCerti icate of substanitial comlNilcti(oin was suhbject to controversy from the NHA who
nlilailltlined that there was stihstaliti l w(ork still to he done on the contract and that the
Enginieer- had issuILd ithe cerificaiCt withluLt the prior nlotilication as called for under the
poWers ol IlIC Engineer, Clau1sc 2.7 Part 11 1o thecConiditionis of Contract.
* 0          Thle contract section. Nooriahad lo Ilydcrahad was opeiied to traffic in January 1994.
During tllc carly parl ol April 1994, hacvy rains were recorded on the Contract 2 section
and shor-tly thereafter, seveic pa\vernent failures of at least 11 kilometres of the northern
--.         1poltioii ol ilic contract werc reporied. SSulisequeiltly additional pavement failures were
rep(irted ailfter iain f'all in Jtily and Atigust 1994.
Witl a "No Obhjection" f'romn NI-IA, SecaClssigned tlle coiitact to Husnain Construction Co.
-(aor acash settlenicnt) in 1994.
As ol Deccin her 1995 the l'lai lcd seclions hlave been reconstr ucted by Husnain Construction
Comiipanyanidillelhighiwayliaslbecistiuccessfully uidIer i-tafficforapproximatelylOmonths
WiltlhOt ShOWing ftr s'LllCl' signs of (listress.
AlthIough thiscolitract was frauight withl proible ms fr om theoutsetand althoughthebidprice
was exceede( by approximiately 7f) periceint, coinpletioni costs on a per kilometre basis are
rclatively low at Rs 7.1 iiiillioni per kilometre.
30



FHP Final Report
The financial record and priogress record for Contract No. 2 are given on the following
Figure - 11.
Figure - 1
CONTRACT - 2                                           :
Sr.       Description          Unil   Total       Total    Planned  Executed    Total           Total    Remalning        %
No.                                     Oty      Revised      This       This      Planned  Executed         Oty       Complete
B     . O .  Oly      Month       Month        Oty        Oty
1              2               3        4          5          6           7          8           9           10          I I
1  Ealh Works                 GM   1,174,000  1,217,470            0           0  1,217,470  1,217,470             0  100.00%
2  GranularSub-base           CM      128,500    227,700           0           0    226,000   226,000         1,700    99,25%
3  Aggregate Base Course      CM      159,300    131,300           0           0    131,300    131,300             0  100.00%X
4  AspliaRic Base Course      CM       66,600     35,500           0           0     35,400     35,356          1 44    9 9 5 S %
5  Wearing Course             CM       30,850     25,400           0           0     25,400    25,291           109   9 9.57%
6  Concrele (Class.A)         CM       10,500       8,960          0           0      8 960      8,900           6 0   9 9,33%,
7  Girders                   Ea/lLI 18714633    15513673           0           3   155/3673  155/3674              0  100.00%
8  Piles                      a/LtN     4,160  40214124            0           0  402/4124  402/4125               0  1 00.00%
50Conlract 2                                                                   Re-scheduCed                           450
50                      ~~~~~~Progress Evaluations                     R-ceuo                                 5
45                  3                     s(Millions Rs)                                                              400 A
M                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1350
|   n                                                                                                                    300 u
n 30                                                                                   7
a.e- ~ ~ ~ 2                                                                                                                          20 I
y  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~           1~~~~~~~~~~50
25                                                                                                                   u0 
~~~~~~~~~~, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
M  31
,:~~~~=:



FHP Final Report
2.5.4    CONTRACTNO. 3A (1 )'DERA BAD-IIALA)
Conitact No. 3a compriscs the constirictioni of a second 7.3 metre wide carriageway
betwecn Hyderahad and Hala a total length1 of 46 kilometres.
VariaLions to the contr1act werc:
-      Addition of Matiari bypass
-      Additional e-nhalknient heigilt for portion of the Contract
-      Deletion of the surl'.ce diressed shoulders
-      Detailedl list of V.Os is giveni at Annexure P,
Basic conitact data is as l'ollows:
ConiLtactor:                         J&P (Overseas) Limited
PC-] Estimate:                       Rs 237.0 million
Bid Amount:                          Rs 186.6 million
ConsLLucted Cost
(Iiicitclues VOs, VOP & Claims):     Rs 330.317 million
Date of Commeicemenil:               29 January 1988
Coniltact Time:                      1082 Days
Actual Conitract Time:               1141 Days
Actual Conitact Completion Dale:    15 Marcil 1991
SupCrvisory C01nsulI UMts:           PRC En,ginieerinig in association with
Enlginieeriing ConsultanLts
Mohilizalioni ol' eqiuipimienit, maiterials and personnel to the site was completed by tile
Contractor witli in (ihe identiftied mohilization period.
Work commenice(d and( progressed well wilih the minimum of complications. Due to a
rielatively highi water table and tlhe adjacent irr-igaLed fields on a section between Km 25 to
30 it was proposed by the Engiiece aond accepted by Lhe NHA to raise the embankment
heigilt by 500 mmin to 750( mimi. I lowever due to increased costs the NHA countered the
variation whenC abouLt hall' Of the prioposed section of roadway had been raised.
Work was delayed lor a shor t per iod duc to a m osque which encroached on the right of way.
Tle Contractor was foiced to ahandon a 21N) metre stietchi and coitinued work on the other
sidle oflthe mosque. Thlis gal) was CvenIually constructed by a sub-contractorsomemonths
'laer, al'ter substantial completioni ol' the contract.
The con tractor iled several claims oi liis coniLact, the ma or two being for extra haulage
ol' material and idled equipimieint due lo cancellation of the VO for raising of the
,-,,967'-,        embankment. Total claims juslil'ied, accepted and paid by the NHA amounted to Rs 88
Conitact linanicial record and progriess record arc given on the following Figure-12.
32



wnlDDV jenloV-.-- uwnoov P8uueldJ-.*- AJjiJUOV ji11V ~ AlnpVVP8UUL~J
a8                 9       1n     Z                             Z                      v      Z       > 
~~~~  0 ~~~~~~~D             0                      CD     0 ~                 
A                                                        IT           '9      '       ?r
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
GL4
n                                                                                                                       0
w                                                                                                                        v
nOOL                                                                                                                     A
%0000                                            8~~~O-Oi SS8J~~~OId ~~aUUeId p0/0o        1S
%0000~~~~~~~~~                                       8~~~~~oe-0L P81JWQja  %    91
0O000'LI~~~~~~~~~~~0C~~~~ SU ~~~~luewesjnqsio leio 0j
?Z99~~~~~~O~~~L'LL  Sd                                 58~~~~~~~~~~~~!'ODd JO u1UOIPEJA   a I
0OLV0 149 96~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sd                   8120~~~~al-02. PaJ2fli2ao 1uflow'   0.
81969 LStL6L  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d                   211~ieiuoo ui >pom lo Onle2A JaN  6
00000 i~~~~~~~~~9 OC ~~~~~~~U ~elea0-o1 sJOPJO uOI2PeA jo anlE2A               9
00,0 Sd                                                                S8OLIeAPV jeUO!)!ppV    9
00*000000~~~~~~~ S~~  ~~~U8WAl~~~~d uo~~Izil!qoylN~
-         ~~~~(paAoJdd~V ION)                :eieG] uoi sidwoo pew weJbOJd
L6.J2r~~~~-SI ~(PeSIAed)                               :94w1. 1o uO1su8lx3 peAoJddV
1.6-UEP-st                   (12ui6u0     sAe(] Z80i             :ae(] uopolidwoo 13e11uo3
Wuer-6z                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~:Iuewoouewwo3 o  010 l]
SUJVIS IVIONVNHA IN39iUfl
'pI- (SeBS4AOA) d'2r :Jo1oeiiuo
elH- peqe.zepAH
-                                     0~~~~BE'N 13BJ1UO03
JJodaGH IeU!z dH34



FHP Final Report
2.5.5    CONTRACT 3B (HIALA-SAKRAND)
Deleted Iroin PrIoject.
2.5.6    CONTRACT4 (SAKRAND-AIORO)
Deleted frrom Proicct.
34



FHP Final Report   .
2.6  NORTHERN GROUP CONTRACTS
2.6.1    GENERAL
Contiacts in the Noirtiler-ni Group wer-c originally planned to include the following:
Contract                                                 PC-1 Estimated
No.      Section                    Length(Km)           Cost (Rs million)
5         QadirpLur-MiaIncI1arinuI       72                   337.3
6         Mianchannu-Salliwal            81                   473.3
7a        Gujriniwala-Chenab 13ridge     49                   286.0
7b        Gujiranwala-Kharian
Over lay & 4 B1idges           45                   263.0
8        4 Major Briidges                51                   320.0
TOTAL:                        298                   1679.6
ContL-acts actLually conlstl-uctedL were-:
Actual
Contract                                                  Construction
No.       Contract                  Lengthi(Kni)         Cost (Rs million)
6a        MianicIUMannu-Chak Belii      39.6                 593.239
6h        Chak Beliiii-Sahiwal          41.4                 437.857
7a        Gu jrawala-Chenah Bridge      49.0                 560.968
7b        Cheliah Bridge-Kharian        45.0                 451.492
8a        4 Major Bridges                                    304.724
8bl       Rehahilitationi
A                          Guiranwala-JAelum            85.94                 958.793
8b1l      Relhabilitationl
Jlielurm-Rawalpi i(li        60.73                 775.716
TOTAL:               4,082.789
35



FHP Final Report
Actual constructed lengtih was 92 kilomctres longer than planned and actual construction
costs were Rs 2,267 million inore than estimated.
Construction of the Northlerni Grotilu Conitacts commenced witli Contract Nos. 7a and 7b
on 19 January 1988. All contiacts were substantially complete by 31 December 1995.
Planned versus actual conslruction schedules and planned versus actual evaluations are
giveni oni the following Figure - 13. The Consultants' final report on the Northem Group
Conitracts is given as Aninexuir-e K.
Figure - 13
NORTHERN CONTRACT'S
Couitiacts No. 6a, 6b, 7a, 7b, 8a, and 8h-I & 8b-11.
Con tracts
Contract No. 6a:   H1usiaini Construction Ltd.  Completed
Contract i4'n, 6h:    Saa(dillahi Klian & lrothers. Completed
Conitact ?14o. 7a:    Nazir & Co. Ltd.
Coiilact No. 7h:    Nazir &Co. Ltd.            Completed
Conlract No. 8a:    Glhulain Rasul & Co.       Comitpleted
Contract No. 8h-l:  J&P Overseas Ltd.
Contlract No. 8h-11: JMP Overseas Ltd.
Supervisoiy Contsr,ltai,is
Freeman Fox Ltd.; in association witll ACC (Pvt) Ltd.; and ACE (Pvt) Ltd. (Assigniment Completed)
4rlo d   Norlhern Conlracis                                                     4500
PIAnned vs. Aclual Evaluslions
#  !3Sc   (Millions Rs)                       _e~                  4000
3500 A
300
0                                                                .-i-,,t-* *L.    3000  c
u 250                                                                                 u
2500 m
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2000  I
r150a
r~~~~~~~~~~~
1500
100                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1000 v
50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0 F/i   aFSS ...  BU   (I A02      %a2   iY32,73O   9 93/94    FY94/95
flPlanned'Quarterly UActual Quarilery  4-Planned Accum     Actual Accum
2.6.2    CONTRACT NO,.5 (QADJIRPUR-AIIANCIIANNU.)
Deleted froin Project.
36
_  iN.                                 f K~~~~



FHP Final Report
2.6.3    CONTRACT6A (MIANCJIAAIVNU-CIAAKJEHNI)
Coniltact No. 6a coillprised the construction of a second 7.3 metre wide carriageway
betweeni Mianchannolu andl Chak Behiii including the Kassowal Overhead bridge and
bypasses for lqbal Nagai, Kassowal and Chichia Watni. The total length of the contract is
39.6 kiloinetres.
Variations to the contract were:
Pavement Dcsigii Chlidiged
Detailed list of V.Os is glven at Annexure P
Basic contract data is as follows:
Contractor:                          H1-usiain Constr-uction Co. Ltd.
PC- I Estimate:                       Rs 230.2 million
Bid Amounit:                          Rs 276.5 million
Constructed Cost
(IncIlides VOs. VOP & Claims):        Rs 567.5 million
Date of CommnllencemenL:              08 August 1989
ConiLact Tiine:                       799 Days
Actiual Conitract Time:                1 376 Days
Actual Conitact Comillctioni Dalc:    15 May 1993
Superl-visoly Consultants:            Frcemana Fox Ltd. in association with
Associated Consulting Engineers
Mohilization was slow onto the site and the conti-act was delayed due to right of way
ac(luisitionilolrtilch  ypassCs. Notinuchiclctivitywasevidenicedduringthelaterpartofl989
ancd tile earlier prart of 1990.
Due to acute shortages ofcommonl maiterial along the alignment thecontractor was forced
to haul coInmo  mateiial excessive distances, which resulted in a claim.
Progress attaiied (llu-ilig Lhc laterl part of 1990 and first part of 1991 was slow, however
pirogr-ess was made. By mid 199 I it was evidenit that tlie contractor was not able to maintain
any type of reasonable pIogIess, dIUC mainly to severe shortages of cash to purchase
i-naterials.
The NHA was faced witliL iedilcma ol rescindi ng tliecontractand rebidding orcompleting
the contract on a risk and cost basis.
An analysis ofContract 6a along witli the othler Northern Contracts (6b, 7a, 7b & 8a) by the
EnlginleCI- pr-oduced SUhstaniial evideniice thiat all of the contracts were the subject of
iiUnder-biddiiig compouInded by substalitial r ises in costs of various items such as electricity,
L-trick tires ancd overall iniflation. The Enginicer recominmended a 25% increase, as "Global
Inlnation".
37



FHP Final Report
Subsequent to careful scrutining and justification by the NHA  and the World Bank it was
agreed to enhlanice ihe contract valtic. In addition rates of several items were increased.
During 1992 and the early part of 1993 the contractor, on a more viable financial footing,
was able to substantially comnplete (lhe work.
The contract financial record anid pI-ogiess record are given on the following Figure - 14.
Figure -14
PHYSICAL PROGRESS 6A
Sr.       Description         Unit   Total       Total    Planned  Executed    Total          Total    Remalning        %
No.                                    aly     Revlsed    This          This     Planned  Executed         Qly      Complte
B. BO.O.           Oly       Monih      Monih
I  EarihWorks                 CM     746.150    960,000          0                           960 000            0  100.00%
2  Granular Sub-base          CM      76.000     33.345                0 E L E T E 0               0            0     0.00%
3  Agjreate  aseCourse   cm       11,000    169. 001)                         169.000   169.000             010.00%t1
4  Aggregale Base (Shouilder)  CM                49,000                            49,000    49,000             0  100 00%
5  Asphaltic Base Course      CM      54.000     22.4412                           22 242    22,442             0  100 00%
S  Wearing Course            TON      25.700     16 800                            16,800     16800             0  100 00%
7  Box Culverts              Nos.         13         23                                23         23         000 a 00 00%
5   Lt Pipe Culvers            NNos.        83        101                                66        101         t 0  0  1 00% -
50oh}(t   .a|:i,,                                                                                                           T 450
45                                                               Time Extensiorn                                       400
Re-Sch eduled
40                                                                                                                     35
35A
M                                                                                                                       303c
m
200U
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~~~~~~~~0
15 0
'0 
1 1 Pan_nml`Wo_nlhly   EWA-clual Mreithly -0-Planned Arcum  --Aclual Accum
38



s~~ a        . . .:  .4   -  S . k .   tS
A5                                                                 Q            FHP Final Report
2.6.4    CONTRACT61 (CHAK BEIINI - SAIIIWYAL)
Contr-act 6b comprised the conlstrIuctioIn or a second 7.3 metre wide carriageway between
Chak Behlni and Sahiwal, incluiding H-larapa and Sahiwal bypasses. The total length of the
conitiact is 41.4 kilometres.
Variatiols to tlhe contract were:
-''b'\-  Pavement Design Chaniged
-     Portion of Alignmlent Chaniged
:   -  Detailed list of V.Os is givenl at Annexure P
Basic contract data is as rollows:
Contractor:                           Sadullah Khani & Brotlhers (SKB)
PC- I Estimate:                       Rs 243.1 mnillion
Bid Amounit:                         Rs 250.2 million
ConsLl-ucted Cost
(Includes VOs, VOP & Claimis):        Rs 447.2 million
Date of CommenencmrenL:              08 August 1989
Contract Time:                        799 Days
ActulI Contract Timie:                1376 Days
Actual Conitact Compltcioni DIac:     15 May 1993
Super visory Consultants:             Freeman Fox Ltd. in association with
Associated Consulting Engineers
Mobilization of plant to site was extremely slow, however the contractor commenced
stockpili nf         ,;Ie:ra.;d othier materials early on in tle contract which served him well
in the monithis to come.
Delays were encouLIeeCd, espCcially olh tIlh constr-uction of Sahiwal bypass due to land
acqiuisitionl problemis.
Duc to land acquisition prohlem-s a portioni of the alignment was changed so as to run
par-allel witlh the existing carriageway, along a strip of land between the Railway and the
exisLing road. Altlhouglh this change in alignment saved substantially on land acquisition
costs, haulage costs increased duc to thc lack of embankment materials available in the
corridor.
Piogress was much the same as Contract 6a and during early 1992 the contract was also
subject to the "Global Inllationi" as recommended by tlhe Engineer.
Pavementi designi changes wei-c initiated by the NHA who reduced the Asphalt Concrete
layers, compensating by an increase in aggregate base.
The contract was completed durinLg the early part of 1993 and has so far performed
saftisfactory.
39
'1



FHP Final Report
The contract financial recor-d and progress record are given on the following Figure - 15.
Figure -15
____PHYSICAL PROGRESS 6B
Sr.       Deseription        Unit   Total      Total   Planned  Executed    Total         Total   Remaining        %
No.                                  oty      Revised    This        This    Planned  Executed         Oty     Complete
O .0.0.    Oty                                      Month      Month
I  Earth Works (Embankment)  CM    860.000  1,043,918         0           0  1,043,918  1.043.911          0  100 00%
2  Granular Sub- Base       CM       79,000    43,278_         0          0    43,278    43,278             0  100 00%
4  Aggregate Base Course    CM       10,000   154,767          0          0   151,767   154,767             0  100 00%
5  Aggregate B.C. Shoulder    CM      6,100    60.755          0          0    60.755    55,355        5,400   91 11%
6  Asphattic Base Course    CM       57,800    23,560          0          0    23,560    23,560             0  100 00%
7  WearingCourse            CM       26,500    16.375          0          0     16,375    16,375            0  100 00%
8Box Culverts               Nos.         24        24          0          0         24        24            0  1 00 00%
9  PipeCulverts             Nos.         67        93          0          0         93        92            1   98 92%
10 Brikges                  Nos.          6          6      0.00       0.00          6       6.00        0.00  1 00.00%
I0*NiitlIly ElV1iii III b                                                      360
350
405
40                                                  Tlrne Extension   \                                    /    300
36                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
30-                                                                                                             200"u
m
V5                                                                                     u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0                                                                                                              0  i s~
0                                                0                                         <~~~~
nPlanned Monthly iAcitielMonthly -0> -Planned Accu
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
j  "                                                  s                     / /,.,  j                  j: ,~~~~4



FHP Final Report
t;.c   2.6.5    CONTRACT 7A (GUJRANVALA - CIIENAB RIVER)
Contr-act 7a comprised tile construction of a second 7.3 metre carriageway between
Guijranwala and the Chenab River including 2 Railway overpass one on the Wazirabad
bypass and one at Dinga. Thc total lenIgLIh of this contract is 47.5 kilometres.
Variationis to the contract were:
-     Pavement Design Chaniged.
-     Detailed list of V.Os is givenI at Annexure P
Basic conitact data is as l'ollows:
Contractor:                        Nazir and Company
PC-I Eslimate:                     Rs 261.9 million
Bid Am)ount:                       Rs 254.9 million
ConstrutcLed Cost
(Includes VOs, VOP & Claims):      Rs 560.968 million
Date of Commencement:              19 January 1988
Contract Time:                     1094 Days
Actual Contr-act Time:             2903 Days
Actual Conitact Comiipletioni Date:    31 December 1995
SSuLIpCevisory Consultants:        Frecmani Fox Ltd. in association with
Associated Consultancy Centre
FuIll InohiliaitioniuiltoLlhesilewasno(coimpletedduringithefirstyearofthecontract. Land
ac(lUisition an( tile reilmoval of trees also plagued the contract during the first 2 years. By
early 199() only about 15% ol' tllc conit-act works had been completed.
It had become obvious that the coniraclor who had also been awarded Contract 7b (Chenab-
lKhalrian) did not have sufficient resourccs to simultanieously work both contracts. ;By
mutual agreemeint between NI-IA and Nazir & Company it was agreed that all resources
sliould be concenitratcd on Coniltact 7h whilst Contract 7a would be left in abeyance until
sucl time as Conlracl 7h was susilsiaitially completed. A work schedule incorporating all
the contractor's cquipmenl was developed and a.greed to by both parties. The Contractor
however failed to accomplish thc scheduled progress on 7b and the NHA on theEngineer's
advice rescinided Contract -7a in accordamice with the Cohditiohs of Contract. The
Conti-actor howevcr manlaged to block the cancellation of the contract by a Court Order.
Thus no work was accomplishc(l oni Contract 7a between February 1990 and May 1992.
With a revised work sched,ule and re-negotiated rates, work again re-commenced. on
Contr act 7a dur ing May 1992.
Progress duriing the Censuinig 3 year-s (May 1992 - May 1995) was dismal and the contractor
was constantly sul'l'erinig fromil cash flow problems as well as poor on site managemenL
41



FHP Final Report
By  nmid  1995  all pavement work  oni tlle  section  was substantially  complete  and  the
contractor continued with rnediani aild drainage works throughl to December 1995.
The contiact finanicial record anid progress record are given on the following Figure - 16.
Figure - 16
PHYSICAL PROGRESS 7A
Sr.        Description         Unit   Tolai        Total    Planned  Executed    Total           Total    Remaining         S
No.                                     Oly       Revised      Thl        This      Planned' Executed          Oty       Complete
__    BOO.          Oty       Month       Monih  _
1  Earth Works                 CM      840,023    750,000           0           0    750,000    750,000              0  1 00 00 %
2  GranularSub-base            CM       B4,600    244.530           0           0    244,530    238,730         5, 800    97 63Y%
3  Aggregale Base Course       CM      332,756    152,700           0        440    152,700    148,669          4,031    97.368%
4  AsphallicBaseCourse        TON      182,134     77,270           0      1 062      77270       74,762        2,508    96 75%
5Wearing Couirse             TON       69.984      53,560          0      1,052      53,560      5 1,552       2, 0 0 8    9 6. 25 S
6  Concrete Class 'A'          CM        2,600       2,300          0           0       2,300      2,300             0   1 00 00Y%
7  Concrete Class 'B' & 'C     CM        2,475       2.321          0           0       2 321      2,321             0   100 00 %
8  BrickWork (Slab)            CIA       2,457       1,900          0           0       1,900      1,900             0  100 00%
9  Plipe Cuiverts (A) Dia 460  LM            0         1 60         0           0        160         160             0  100 00 %
10 Pipe Culverts (B) Dia 910    LM         133          7S          0           0          75         75             0   100.00%
i I Modian Banier              LM       26,400      26,40(          0           0      26,400     26,400             0  1 00 00Y%
12 Shoulders DST                LM            0     84.000t         0     1,0          84,000     24,500       59 500    29 17%
C(o,n(ru( 7A
so0                                          NUW#mild) IBAlaXIlnhl-s                                                        600
45  R.('iMI(II.,i  iN)                                               Time Extension
40                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Re-Scheduled50
50                                                                                                                        A
iS                                                                                                     ... .t  .    40 i12        P        tS        >S          C5i4> SZ 42v
M  30C
0  2530 
n -
20
h ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~200 
I  t5
10
y                                                                                          "O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
:-~~~~~~~ Ai=a 3.                                                                                                                         a
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                 _
Planned Monthly          Actlual MoniI4y     a    Planned Aocum    -    -Aceual Accumn
42



u~~~~~~ --~ w -
FHP Final Report
2.6.6    CONTRACT 7B (CflENA B BRIDGE - KIIARIA N)
Contract 7b compiised the construction of a 7.3 metre wide carriageway between Chenab
Bridge andi Kharian and inclu(led lie rehiabilitation of the urban section of Kharian. Tle
total lengtl of lhis contiact is 45.(O kilomeiLes.
Var'iatiolns t tIlCe ConracLt WerC:
Pavement Desigil Clhanged
Rehabilitation of Kharilin urban section
Detailed list of V.Os is given at Annextire P
Basic conitract data is as follows:
Contractor:                           Nazir andl Company
PC-I Estimate:                        Rs 254.7 million
Bid Amounit:                          Rs 234.8 million
Colnstrutcteci Cost
(Includles VOs, VOP & Claims):        Rs 451.492 million
Date ol Comineinceimieilt:            19 January 1988
Contract Time:                         1094 Days
ActUal CoViitct i iMie:               1928 Days
Actual Coniiract Coiiplelion lDaie:   3() April 1993
Supervisory Conisultanits:            FIreemani Fox Ltd. in association with
Associated Consultanicy Cenitre
Subsequenilt to tihe mohilizationi payment beinig made in January 1988 ther-e was little to no
activity on site unltil Novemnber 1988. Part ol tlie delay was caused by the inability of the
Forest Depiartment to remove trees lfr om wltlitin the iighit of way. The problem was finally
resolved ancd thle conitractor was permlite(l Llinder a Variation Order to cut trees and remove
the stumpnps. Parlt of the 1(1- I I montils delay was also the fault of the contractor's inability
to mobilize.
Severe floods during thle monsoonI season of 1988 also adversely affected the works and
the coniltacto's camnp was inundated.
Progress achievedl was minimial duLing the period November 1988 to February 1990, at
whicih time equiipment and esotiurces were mobili7ed from Contract 7a. Work again
declined by AuguIst 199(0 due lo the Coiitractor's inability to finance the works.
Re-scheduling and( re-rating in Januiniry 1991 enabled Lhc contractor to operate in a more
realistic fashion witli aver-age  oniotilily evaluations of Rs 15-20 million.
The conitact was opened to tlralfic duIrinig Januar-y 1993 and a certificate of-substantial
coinpletioll was issued effective 30 Apr-il 1993.
43



F-FHP Final Report
The coniract Financial and progress iecords are given on the following Figure - 17.
Figure- 17
PHYSICAL PROGRESS 7B
Deacription       Unit   Total      Total   Planned  Executed    Total         Total   Remaining          %
Oty     Revlsed    This        This    Planned  Executed        Oty        Complete
_ B.O..    Cly       Moonih     Month              ___         _
Earth Works              CM   1.014,100   907.836         0           0   907,836   907,836            0       100.00%
Granufar Sub-base        CM      74,744   212,043         0      2,8 82   212,043  ',212,043            0      100.00 %
A  re ate Ease Course    CM      28,900   139,537          0       302   139,537   139,537             0       100.000%
Asphallic Base Course    CM     172,366    79,369         0        8 0 3    79,369    79,369           0       100.00 %
Wearing Course           CM      63,176    48,121          0     1,6 34    48,121    48,121             0      100.00Y%
Box Culverts             Nos         22        39         0           0        39         39           0       100.0 0%
Slab Cutlveris           Nos         24        33         0           0        33         33           0       100.00%
Pipe Ctilverts           Nos         16        20         0           0        20         20            0      100.00 %
Median Larrier           LM      13,500    14,245         0           0     14,245    14,245           0       100.0 0%
Viirga Overhead Bridge    _
Concrete Class-A         CM       1,696      1,696         0       1 0 0     1,696     1 5081        1 8 8      889_2%
Girder (30 - 60 M)       Nos         32        32         0           0        32         32                  100.o00t
Dock Slab               Nos.          8         a          0          1         8 _______
Cmntrnct 713
'75                         NIontiliv Elvalurt tions3a0
I'zlll.   ts) 
40                                                                                                                   300
.35 -                                                                       Time Extension
Re-Scheduled                 -.          250
30
cb    ,    4  ;    t    >    4  8    8    8    4    0    0  ;    t    0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00 
o                                                                                                                         C
'20                                                                                                                   ISOU
I                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
115                                                                                                                      u
I                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1001I
vo                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
_ .   _   _  _ . . .  _ ...........   _so .
. . ~~~~~~~~.......
0                                                           0 ees  ~                 ~         
U, ~~  <    Z    U. ~~      <    Z1    L                 Z    U-                z                 < - 
[=Planned Monithly 111011Aclutal Montlhly --*-Planned Acctum ---Aclual Accum
44



,j -
FHP Final Report
2.6.7    CONTRACT8A (4 MAJOR BRIDGES, BETWEYEN GUJRANVALA AND
KIIARIAN: UPPER CIENAB CANAL PULKHU NULLAH, CHENAB RIVER
AND BIfIMBER)
Coniitact 8a comprised thc constiructioni ol 4 major 2 lane bridges over tile Upper Clienab
Canal, the Pulkhiu Nullah, the Cheiah river and the Bhimber Nullah. The total of all spans
is 1 ,412 inetres wilh thc longest hridge being the Clienab bridge at 756 metres.
Var-iatioIns to the conltr'act were:
Addition of foot-path to all bridges.
Detailed list of V.Os is givCnI at Annexure P
Basic contiact data is as follows:
Contractor:                        Ghulam Rasul and Company
PC-I Estimate:                     Rs 115.3 million
Bid Amount:                        Rs 167.5 million
Constructed Cost
(IIluCtdes VOs, VOP & Claims):     Rs 304.724 million
Date of Commein ceinent:           04 August 1989
Contract Time:                     1124 Days
Actual ContracLTTime:              1365 Days
Actual Contract Comnpletioni Date:    3() Apiil 1993
Supeivisory Conisultanits:         Freeman Fox Ltd. in association with
Associated Consultancy Centre
Thc contiactor got his ma jor woirks ol pile installation undelway by January 1990 being
well pieparled and havinig a substantial amount of maLerial stockpiled on site.
Progress was good oni site thiouighi to Septemcher 1990 whien severe monsoon floods badly
alffected progress and caused the contiLactor substantial losses in equipment.
Subsequeint to the set hack from tlie 1990 floods the contractor was not able to catch up
thirouigl ilic reimiainider ol tlie conlract.
All ol thie bridges' structures were substantially completed by November 1992 except for
tihe deck woi-k on the Uppei Chenlah Canal bridge. A certificate of substantial completion
was finally issued( effective 30 April 1993.
The contract Iinancial recordl and( progress record is given on Figure - 18.
45



FHP Final Report
Figure- 18
PHYSICAL PRO GRESS 8A
Sr.       Descriplion       Unit   Tol        Total   Pilanned  Executed    Total        Total   Remaining          %
No.                                  Oty     Revised    This        ThIls    Planned  Executed        Oty       Complete
B.O 0.      aty      Month    Month
1  Earth Works (Emrbankment)  CM    178,570   20,8600         0    27,300   208 600   208.600              0      100 00%
2  Grrnular Sub-Base        CM       1,608      2.750         0        S 3 0    2,750      2,750           0      100 00%
4  Aggregate B.C. Shoulder    CM       552      5,510         0      1 800      5,510      5.510           0      100 00%
5  AsphallicBaseCourse      CM       1,218      1,035         0        435      1.035      1,035           0      100.00%
6  WeanngCourse             CM         759      2.055         0        550      2.055      2,055           0      100.00%
25                        Contract 8A
MoIlil  EvlualonsRs.I
20           -                       R .s)                                                                              200
is                                                                                                                      150A
c
n                                                                                                                           C
n f _ '   100 m
h                                                                                                                           u
Ir r.                                                                                                                   so a 
'0  e
vi;    aICi!nc                                            ,It
I-'Plarnaed Monlhly    Actal Monlily +Plnned Accum ---Actual Accum
46



FHP Final Report
2.6.8    CONTRACT N6S. 8111 & 81311 (REIIABILITATION OF EXISTING
* o4-          CARRIAGEWAY FROM GU.IRAN$VALA TO RA WALPINDI
The 300 km section ol the N- 5 hetw&en Lahorc and Islamabad is the most heavily travelled
anid has tie higihest denisity of traffic of any iiter-ciLy link in Pakistan. On an average, during
1990-9 t tlalffic c6uLnts indicated thlal  10,000 vehicles per day used this section of highway.
Additional traffic countiis carried owdurling the later part of 1991 indicate that most reaches
ol this sccLioni of higlhway had traffic couInts in excess of 12,000 and individual sections
recoirdedi coLiits of 15,00() vceiicles per day. From these counts, it is apparent that loaded
Lrucks costitute aboutL 55 percent of all tiaffic. Thus if the Liaffic counts are converted to
ESA, the ligurie ol 20,00() ESAS is niot unireasonable.
Appiroximiiately 9() peicent of all stonle aggregate used in thle Punjab for construction
puiiposes coes roin the Taxila arei and is trlcked as far soutl as Sahiwal. It is estimated
lhat soine 20,000 tOnIS of cLiUSlC stone aggregate is transpor-ted down this section of the N-
5 daily, most Of it in singic reClr axICd tr ucks.
By 1991 llhe sectioni ol thc N-5, north of Guiranwala was in ciitical condition with regards
to potlioles. paveincit faiihii-es and gcncral trafficability.
Ncilhel the mainitcnianicc wor-ks no [tlic mainitenanlce budget could keep pace witlh tle rapid
deteriioration ol the section as a wholc, bult in particular witlh the section between Jhelum
and Rawalpiindi.
1Ba.sed oin a physical coi(iiioii survey and a Benkeiliani Beam survey, both of which
colln f-illedC tile seriousness of' teiC siluation, the NI-IA proposed to the World Bank that
rehahllitation ofttheexistinlgcai-rriageway hctweeil GuLjranwala andJlielum be taken upwith
parl hiiiiag 'Ioml thc Fourth-lig lilway Proiect loan. The proposal suggested that FHP
Conitacts 3h, 4 aiid 5 wouild( he delcirired in prefcrence to the proposed relhabilitation.
Based oni test pits, 13einkelmlani Beml Ba and a visuail sur vey, overlay designs were developed
a and costed.
Bcnkelmani Beam rebounid readinigs had indicated that the majolity of the total length
betwcen Gujranwala anid Rawalpindi could be suflficicntly strengthened and riding quality
inm proved withi a noinial Aspha;lt Conicietc overlay. Some sections would require a greater
thickiless of' coveI over the existing pavcmenit, not for strenigth, but to improve riding
quality. Thecsuiveys indicated that lilile(l lengths of thleentiresectioll wouldrequiretotal
i.Ccolnstructioll.
The original rehabilliationl desigins conlsidered differenit types of treatment which were
selecte(i oni the basis of the conditio. oln( thlc existing pavement. Details of all the 4 designs
are givenl on1 Figure - 19.
Subsequcilt to coinmlenicemeilt olf the works at Jheltiin, NHA decided that the general cross-
section of lhe existing carriageway, which was cambered fiom  the cernre, should be
converted to a cross-fall of 2 peircint lfr om the median edge of the road fallinig towards the
outerI edge. Thc decisioni was taken oi Lthc premise that eventually the total length between
GujI;ranwala and Rawalpid(li wouldl hc a dual carriageway. This decision raised the
estimated consiruction cost considerably as Lhc median cdge of the carriageway had to be
clevaled a inimium ol 16 to 210 cl1 to obtain the 2% cross-fall.
47
A*



MINISTRr OF rOtAMUNlC.ATlON                                                                                       )ANA8EUENT  ODNwULT flTS
GOVT,'OF PAKISTAN                                                                                                                  LA ORE
TYPICAL CROSS SE(iT1ON FOR OVERLAY
CONTRACT 83-I
SECTION GUJRANWALA- JHELUM
TYPE I CONSTRUCTION
40mrn AlWEARING COURSE Cless-f.a.
Shoau14er           _    _  _             lu__ _s-e             Sho tIlder
| 2 0M,             |             7j N -9 OM 7                      3                                       1O
co                                 ,, y, f1  .
~300mm Crish AseB acdse Csrseue          e PLC, Bose   .      300m  Crush Aqcreooe! Bose oourse
Course Cross-e
JDouble SurioreTreolment            (Where reired)         -  |Double Surtace treatment
^   -                                                                                  11i1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                      ........,
NATriONAL H16HWA'2  UTOT
rlONITRY OF   r COMMUNICATION                                                                           SAMPAK INTERNATIONAL (PV) TD
MINISTRY Or CMMUNPCATKOIT                                                                                       MANA6EMENT CONULT  TS
SI_T.OX PA5ASDAN       TYPICAL CROSS SElCTION FOR OVERLAY
C O NTRACT 8B -I
SECTION KH ARMAN - JH TELUM BRIDGE
TYPE 7- CONSTRUCTION
4Omm AC WE-ARtN6 _COUB_S Class An
Shoulder           7C0mm AC. BASE COURSE Cls3 A_               Shoulder
-- M                           73M-90M                        2 M
10 .5 im   3 %0   1     1       * 2        2                        3 A      0541'
/ I ! fxist~~~~~~ino road surface 
/         /8~~~~rick an eaq                                                                      B  rick on en 
}                       lo~~~~~~~~~1ee o malchira wilh Qoarecate  lr
i300mm Crush aeqreooie Base Gour_,?e  Ba~se Course/ U  C     130rnm. Crush  B:reacie Bose Course            0 
iDouble Surface Treoimen                                     Double Surface Treolrneni                         : 
Zn ~
NOTE; IN CASE OF ROAD IN CURVE, SUPER-ELEVATION SHALL BE PROVIDED FOR WHICH
"LEVELING  COURSE  ASPHALT" MAY  BSE  USEED  IN  PLACE  OF  "AC  BASE  COURSE  CLASS A                             ;



~r,a'~AL ,o-,WAY Au TrORTY                                                                       SPMPhK MTERNtTIONAL (PVT )LTD
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATION                                                                               I CN NTCONULTAItO
coVT. OF ?AK:5TAN                                                                                       SN6EIENT CONULT-H S
!SLAMABAO                                                                                                              LANO E
TYPICAL CROSS SECTION FORR OVERLAY
C O NTRACT 8B - I
SECTION KHiARIAN -JHELUM 8RIDG-
TYPE  iTr CONSTRUCTION
40 m m A. W E ARING COUR S - CL ss -A 
Shoulder          70mm A.C B^SE COURS Clcass-              Shoulder
2-0CM                7~~~~~3m~-9-0m                200OM
3              1          2                                  30o I  M fON1!l
/ 8 ri~ r'ck    on edge    !                                                                  Brick on  eg   
1300mm Crush AaoreaooeBase Cours                         300mm Crush Aooreaoie Bose Course
Double Suriace Treaomenr          150mm Crush Aaoreaoce    |ouble Suriace Treoimeni
3OO e50mm Surb Base
NOT E                                                     (Where reouired)
IN CASE THE DESIGN  LEVEL  AND THE  EXISTING  ROAD LEVEL  DOES  NOT PERMIT  A  THICKNESS  OF
MINIMUM  15 CM. OF CRUSH  AGGREGATE BASE COURSE, IT SHALL BE  REPLACED  BY A BITUMIN  STABILlZ_D
,BASE OVERLAID  BY AC. BASE  COURSE  OF 50 MW. iNSTEAD  OF  70 MM.






NATIONAL. HIGHWAY AUTHORTY                                                                                       SAMPA  tNE?ATOA 
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATION                                                                                        SAMPAK tNTERNATIONAL (PVT )It
60VT. OF PAKISTAN                                                                                                        MAAfNA6EMENT CONULTA  s
ISLAMABA.                                                                                                                                 LAHE:
-    TYPICAL CROSS SECTION FOR OVERLAY
CO NTRACT 8B -I
-SECTiON GUJRANWALA-KHARIAN
TYPE      CONSTRUCTION
40mmA.C.WEARqM  COURSE Closs-A
Shoulder     | 40-100m-:A.CLevenECourse Ctoss-B                  Shoulder
35M           I-M cm                           7-3 M- 9  M                    I 2M    |OSM
_ t\ / '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 11 '.
2
Deep ookCrnq wilh Aaarecoce
1300mm   Crush   Aacreaofe  Bose Course    BasGeoerse- .  Bos
-Course Class 6            i3O0mrn Crush Aooreoole BEose Course
j Doubie5urface treatme.l                                                                                     ,M1 
DDoutie Surface Treolmenlef
NOTE  THIS TYPE OF CON5TRUCTION    '



FHP Final Report
2.6.9    CONTRACTNO. 8131 (REIIABIILITATIONOF EXISTING CARRIAGEWAY
FROMl1 GUJRANIVALA 70 JlIELUMI)
ContiacaL8bh1coinpr-ised (lc ria-ilalit(ioi atld reconstructionoftiheexistingN-Scarriageway
hetweeni Gujrianwala and Jhtlum. Tlc existinig carriageway was rehabilitated under full
traffic conditions to a hi gih standard 7.3 mletir wide, asphialt concrete highway with surface
treated shoiulders. This was thc lirsl. time in Pakistan that full width, high quality highway
rehiabilitation work had been carried oUt under full traffic conditions.
Var'iations to thei contract were:
-      Cambler changed to Cross-fall
-      Pavemelnt Design changed
-      Drainiage added
-      Detailed list of V.O.s Is givenl aL Annexuie P
Basic contract dala is as lollows:
Contractor:                          J&P (Overseas) Limited
Engineer's Estimate:                 Rs 300.() million
Bid AmouL1t:                         Rs 442.9 million
Constructed Cost
(Includics VOs, VOP & Claims):       Rs 958.793 million
Date of Comeniliceiicient:           17 December 1991
Contract Timiec:                     731 Days
Actual Contract TimIle:               1475 Days
ActuLal Contiact Completioni Dale:    31 Decemibe  1995
SuprCiSOr y Con1sultaInts:           Associated Consultancy Centre &
Engininccl-ig Consultants
The contractor was slow to mobilize 1nid lo establish on site. The construction of a large
ollicc/worksholp/living complex near Jlielum  took considerably more time than the
contractor had planned.
A large crushlinig facility was also set up at Langapur (near Jhelum) which also took loner
Lo gto o11 line than was cnvisaged.
True conistiructicon/rehalbhiilitatioin work onIIy got tinder-way during September 1992, some 10
nIonlthls after the nlotict tn prOCCced 1h11d hCCn iSSUcd.
C:onstruction stared front Sarai Alaingir workinlg soutil towards Kharian.
Progrcss was slow during the major part of 1993. however during 1994 progress was
gcncially in accordance witli the irevised work schiedule.
The contract financial and progress rccords are given on the following Figure - 20.
52



FHP Final Report
Figure - 20
PHYSICAL PROGRESS 8B-I
Sr.        Description         Unl   Total         Tolal    Planned  Executed    Total             Total    Remaining         %
i   No.                                   Qly     RuvIsecO    This         This      Planned  Executed           Oty       Complete
_B.0.0.      Oty       Monlh       Month
1  Eath Works                  CM       61,000      48,392           0           0     20,S00      13,927       3 4, 4 6 5    28.78%
2  Granular Sub-Base           CM       76,262    125,290       7,00C          552    125,290    106,381        18,9 0 9   84.91 %
3  Aggregate Base Course       CM      177,911    174,433        3,586       3.420    174,433    151 996        22,437    87.14%
4  Asphahic Base Course        Ton    101,050    239,2 59       2,258        5,862    239,259    228,784        10, 4 7 5   9 5.62%
5  Wearing Course              Toni    65,059    148,173             1       3,092    148,173    133,824        1 4,3 4 9   90.3 2 %
6  DBST                        SM             0    2S7,083      11,272         492    257,083    194,345        62,738    7560
7  Deep PaBching               SM             0    160,261      32400            0    160,251    1     56       34,605    7841%
eep  at liinq    n.,,      8
80    \I,,.^.l I ...s.l,Alil,lims R.                                                                                    900o
70
800 
0                                                                                                                           IO
,0.~~~~~~~~~1
40
2 0                                                                                                                      300 
h                                                                                           4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
10                                                                                                                          V
o                                                                                                                     0
V ,,_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q
Planned Monthly           Actual Monthly   -0---Planned Accvm    -            Actual Accu
53
_ .T 7 = W



FHP Final Report
2.6.10   CONTRA CT 8B11 (REHABILITA TION OF EXISTING CARRIAGEWA Y FROM
JUELUM TO RA WVALPlNDI)
Contract 8hl corn prised the r-ehaiil iiittioni/r econslJtuction of the exisLing N-5 carriageway
hetweel n Jheluln and( Ra.walpitidi.  I
Variations to the contract were:
-      Camber changed to Cross-fall
-      Pavemend(i designl chanlged
-      Drainiage added1
-      Detailed list of V.Os is givcul at Annexure P
Basic conitiact data is as follows:
Contractor:                          J&P (Overseas) Limited
Enginieer's Estimate:                Rs 300() million
Bid AmounL:                          Rs 428.9 million
Constructedl Cost
(Incltides VOs, VOIP & Claims):      Rs 775.716 million
Date of Comrmencenenllt:              17 Deceinhem 1991
Contract Timiie:                     731 Days
Actual Conltact Timlle:              1186 Days
Actual Contract Completionl Date:    17 Marclh 1995
Su pecrvisoly ConsultanlLs:          Engineerilng Consultants
Work commlnTlcc( on the roadway In earnlest durilng September 1992.
The contractor lhad prIogramimneId ilis wor-k to commenice on the outskirts of Jhelum and to
work northwards towardcs Rawalpindi.
In order to maintain Irafflic low the woirk was scheduled in relatively short sections of 300
I              mectres to 1,01)()( mcells. Tlicri,st 51()1 IlmCtI-C SctioI was constr-ucted in accordance with the
Typc III dcsigin in a camber section.
As worlk progresscd and sections werc completed they were immediately opened to traffic.
Wilhini 30 days of opening to tralfic localized cracking appeared, which with time (30 to
60(l lays) progressed to 9)0 percentL fihldi-e of any given section.
It lecame obvious that the prescribed overlays were deficient and their general perfor-
manice unreliable.
Newly overlaid sections were cxlii iting a far worse general condition (after 30to 60days
of traffic) than the original unitoutclhcl pavemient struLctur'e.
All materials being utilize(d wete sub jectedl to r igorous testing without any definite cause
for- the fIailuIes heinig foundil. Thlle contractorIs source of crushed aggregate at Langapur
54
.:I



FHP Final Report
became suspect as it was known that thc quarny was predominantly quartzitic. However
it was also noled lhat sections huilt with aggregates imported from Taxila, which are
predominantly limestone had also exhlililc(l similar type failures.
AddiLionial testing was cariied oult by excavating test pits at regular intervals through the
existing pavement structure. Tliese test pits wete logged in detail and bulk samples
ohtained for additional labooratoi-y tesllng. prorm this information and previous Benkelman
beam infor mation, new pavemcntdesigins were developed incorporating the required cross
fall. The pavement dlesigns which litve been imnplemented successfully to the conclusion
of the contract are given on the following Figules 21 and 22.
During 1993 and carly 1994 it becaiiie very obvious that side,drainage had to be attended
to as part ol the pavement ieliahilitaALion. Several VOs were issued to the contractor in this
respect and substantial side drainage works, sub-drainsland median drainage works have
benl completed.
Pavements constiLicied duiring the later part of 1992 have been subjected to full traffic now
for a peiiod of thiee years and arc perlorimiing satisfactory.
Tlhc financial and pirogr-ess records nic givenI on1 litC following Figure - 23.
:r~~~~~~~~~~~~5
*   :
;.
If
*. 
. -
--- 
jt- 
:F  i 
.. - ,tf-: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ 5



O51d.  7.op~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,65u                                                 *          0 O5M
Ul
-7LAL  /--.\ n:
(7'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 
NOTES
I.  ASPHALT CONCRETE WEARING COURSE (SOmm).
2. ASPHALT CONCRETE BASE COURSE (80mm).
3. AGGREGATE BASE COURSE (200mm).    - -
4. GRANULAR SUB-BASE (0-200mm).
5. DOUBLE BITUMINOUS SURFACE TREATMENT.
K.m  0 +000  to -10+400                                    6. EXISTING ASPHALT SURFACE TO BE REMOVED.
7. EXISTING PA)EMENt STRUCTURE.
e. EXISTING EMBANKMENT MATERIAL.
TYPICAL CROSS uSECTION
CONTRACT  8B-I                                                                                     X 
SCALE_ H5 Vs
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



C/L OF  XISTINCr J,/WAV                                 -/L OF ADOITIONAL C/WAY
,.51   2.00    ___3 365 _365                                                                       365                   3.0
VARIABLE  /|   '                                    27.
ii~~~~~~~~2
VARIABLE I          -
[71
-4
TYPICAL X-SECTION                                      NOTE
(GUJRAT  BY  PASS)                                I ASPHALT WEARING COUASE                   50mm
2. ASPHALT BASE COURSE --                    160mm    i
3. AGGREGATE BASE COURSE ----------200mm                     t.nrn
o. 100mm  (Fresh MAoterial)
b. 100mm  (Reused Materiol)
4 AGGREGATE BASE COURSE (Shoulder)--300mr.n
43+330  -End  Point                                                                                              5. EXISTING AGGREGATE BASE COURSE--(VARIBLE)Z
6. DST. S. 
7 EXISTING O.S.T.
-    .                                                                                          _~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



.411~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ,d                        .i- 
OF C/WAY                                                                                                           r
_0.5     2                                                OFC0 3.5                          2.00         0.5_
7.7-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
2./   tStl -tic Base \os                         .i0  n
C)      rEisgatie Apal .,. Cors     to be  r.m.n pac t hiCnto  jayrys ino
3.    Aggregat  Base Co.r ...................  20 m             m                                                       I rom  tv to  2   cm as  p        brtsite conditiona.e   Jcs n
I b)  I0 ..Xv    (Rt.e MFrs ate^rial1                                                                            J5 cn- thickness. 
tal Aggregate Oat                                     e     L.ours   mtyr lof
4.   Aggregate Base Co,-rse ...................................... %(Oe                                                 1.  ........C C. thAlCkn**     ,Ch. tTDhbe bo tEint_o   la,r  sj   ro.,j
5.    Eaisting Aggregate bar.  cowS   e      ......... o e(Variable                                                         e.. t  rP layer    wai u Comprise o 1  1reah.t   produced C ater al .
thic:knwss as pe, site).                                                                                          h to lae 'Alc Prsoffehypd,e   .trj.
thcnssa   erSt)                                                                                              0)    DpfiCae,it P"*`..m.t thiCkness In thew stretch 42-300 to
o.    D.S.T                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~42*620, to Attain  the designed  Profile, -ill  be construicte,
7.    E;istirg  D.S.T                                       TYPICAL   A'-   SECTIOG               Y                     -sing Aggregate Gashe Course material.
(GLAJRAT          E)"    PASS)                             Asph-It Base Course  to be paDed neat In to  layers
FHP   CONTRACT  St.-j                             i)    Asphal t W.ear.ii; Cou,rse ui I  be Ni c. thiCt.
KM 41+500 TO KM 43+330



'1
E                            7
A. AC /ASE COURSE  (AVERAGE 100mm).                     1  ASPHALT CONCRETE WEARING COURSE (501m1),
S. AGGREGATE 8ASE COURSE (250mm).                      2. ASPHALT CONCRETE  BASE COURSE  (70mm).
CBO GRANULAR SUB BASE    (250mm).                       3. DOUBLE  SURFACE TREATMENT.
E. COMMON. FILL         (250 mm).                      4. AGGREGATE  BASE COURSE ON SHOULDER(200 TO 220).
5.  EXISTING SURFACE.                                                                   .
S. EXISTING  PAVEMENT STRUCTURE. NLXu
7.  EXISTING  EMBANYMENT MATERIAL.
FOR DIRECT OVERLAY
TYPICAL CROSS SECTION
(GUJRANWALA BYPASS)
CLIgNT.                      pFtT                  --        CONSULTANT,                        CONTRACTOR.                    DRAWN OY.    jtAO
NATIONAL HIGHWAYAUTHOR]       CONTRACT 88 1.              ENGINEERUqG  CONSULTANTS        JOANNOU a PARASKEVAIOES(O):LTRO. tHfWO bY        vEf
ITY, ISLAM8ABAb  CTAT81|- -  .,.,,



CD- NOTES
A. AGGREGATE BASE COURSE (200mm)             1. ASPHALT CONCRETE WEARING COURSE(S5Ornm)
S. GRANULAR SUB-BASE( 300mm )                2. ASPHALT CONCRETE BASE COURSE (150mm IN TWO LAYER)
C. COMMON FILL (200nmm)                     3. AGGREGATE BASE COURSE ( 300mmn)
o  ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,,                     4. GRANULAR SUB-BASE(200mm)                                                             r
5. EXISTING PAVEMENT STRUCTURE 77771
6. D.S.T (ON L.H.S SHOULDER)
FOR RECONSTRUCTION
TYPICAL CROSS SECTION
I                                                     ( GUJRANWALA  BYPASS)
iENTI                                  PROJECT I           ENGNEELTANS.  ICONTRACTOR. ADRAWN RY.                                   ISCALE. R 1
NATIONAL HIGHWAY AUTHORITY |FOURTH tBRD HIGHWAY PROJECT|  NtINERNGu  AONSUTANT                                             ALINNO  NOAAKvIEsoLI|VR I   {T
_IEN~.                     PROJECTECO                            NSULTANTS   CONO R.                  KDRAWL           _Y.                 11ALB.
I   ISLA MA 8AD 0              CONTRACT 8B-I                                                                      IECE         VER9215



.L
. 5u200O_ ,     _365ui. 4                           _G_RANULAR SUB-BASE '020t_             .  U.
i  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~i.
l. ASBLT E            WEARING CORSE MET.
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                        0 NOEXSTIN  EMAKMN  MAEIL
2. ASPHALT CONCRETE O ASE COURSE (80mm).
--                                 ~~~~~~~~~3.  AGGREGATE 8ASE COURSE (200mm).                                                        -h
4.  GRANULAR SUB-B8ASE (0O- 200 mm ). 
5.  OOUBLE 8ITUMINOUS SURFACE TREATMENT.,i
6. EXISTING ASPHALT.BURfACE TO BE REMtOVEO.
7. EXISTING PAVEMENi' STRUCTURE.
11. EXISTING EMBANKMENT MATERlIAL.         -8
TYPICAL CROSS $iECTIONM
CONTRACT                       8B-11
Km  0+000  to  Km  10+110
SC#&t
.                                                                                                                   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'I\ 



1.4
LEGEN                 ASPHALT CCHCRETl .WEARUlN  COURSE (Sovnm)            F.          AGGREGATE BASE COURSE (R/S  SHOULOER  ZOO-CI
B. r       ASPHALT kCO.ICR,ETV .ASt COURSE (80mm)               G.       *  GR.MiULAR SUB-BASE (RVS SHOULDCER 2OOm)
C ASPHALY.tBEAT.tD  ASit COURSE (100mm)             K           DEE OEP PATCHU1O (WHERE RECUIREOI
a0r   n    ASPHALT  CoDiiCRTE LEYEL)NO CCURSE (VAIALASLE)    C.             EXISTING  PAVE)JLNT -STRUCTUlE
L r        AGGREGATE BASE COURSE (L's SHOtULOCA JOOG)    J.                 EXISTING  tUJAIaWEIIT
TYPICAL CRkOSS SECTION
T-  I      L   ~coHTACs      NO  ,S,6  ob-it        O                                                J          P  (0)
Km 18+300 to Km 19+170
LHS
Km 18+600 to Km 19+170                                                                                                                                         --.
RHS+LHS
Km 19+920 to Km 20+360
: ;. '-                                                                                                                                    .           .   q i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:-,, '..                                                                                                                                                                                                             0



VAAtIA ILL
cn                                                                                                                                                                       r -- 
C.)
NOTF  . -
I.  ASPHALT CONCRETE WEARING COURSE (50mm).
2. ASPHALT CONCRETE BASE COURSE (100mm).
3.  AGGREGATE BASE COURSE ( 260 mm).
4. DOUBLE BITUMINOUS SURFACE TREATMENT.
5. EXISTING DST/TST To BE REMOVED.
6. EXPOSED WATER BOUND MACADAM.
7. SECOND DST/TST TO BE BROKEN AND RECOMPACTED
Km 15+200 to Km 18+200                                   WITH OVERLYING WATER BOUND MACADAM.
T -IYPICAL  CROSS SECTION
CONTRACT 88-Ia
SCALEO



OF C/WAY
-I  I-.5S               3.65--        -----3.65          0. 5-   H
2.0                                        1.-       h.
4.X '
-TYPICAL CROSS-SECTION FOR RECONSTRUC .-ION AREAS
NOTES                                            FHP CONTRACT 8B-II
() ASPHALTIC WEARING COURSE (SOmm)
6  ASPHALTIC BASE COURSE (7Omm)
)  ASPHALTIC BASE COURSE (80mm)
*  4  AGGREGATE BASE COURSE (300mm)
-   GRANULAR SUB BASE / (200-30m  ) 
GRANULAR SANO
QJ AGGREGATE BASE (200mm)                                                                                                                               .
,,. ,-i.;  (i)GRANULAR SUB-BASE
j,   4.  --  -  .  .  .  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



OF C/WAY|
2.50                 3.65                    3.65              1.50   '
;  . .                                 I                        I .S.i dn W i
V D.S.T ZmWide   2         j                        1%  4%
AGGREGATE BASE                                                                                    AGGREGATEt 30 Cm
:-----------                                                                     B l   l  4/   hOULDER l COBBLES
I COMMON  FILL                   300mm
2 SUB-BASE-                  -   200mm
3 AGGREGATE  BASE COURSE---300mm 
4 ASPHALT BASE COURSE -----80mm
5 ASPHALT BASE  COURSE            TOmm
6 ASPHALT WE-ARING  COURSE---50mm
FOR   1.00 M    DEPTH
*ITYPOCAL  CROSS SECTION
KM. 73+100-73+580



* O c 2 .0 ~~~~~~~~~~3,6                             S                   . e  - -... 
.                                   X   rSHOULOER         PAVEMEN5 mcqr       PAVE,-AEN. 
(TR
44~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~4
,                           TYPICAL CROSS-S~~~~~~~PAEMETI    FORME. CjRC    VRA
NOT[S          .
AAMI       VRIALElN,ZZ.K2F                                                                                      ARIB7
TYPICAL CROSS-SECT'ION  FOR DIRE7CT OVERLAY
NOTES                                                   FHP  CONTRACT  8B-11
  ASPHALT CONCRETE WEARINC COURSE (5Ornm)
) ASPHALT CONCRETE eASE COURSE (60mm)                                                           RHS
2  ASPHALT CONCRETE BASE COURSE (80mm')                                                              Km  18+200  to  Km  18+300
  ASPHALT CONCRETE LEVELLING COURSE (VARIA8LE)                                                  LHS
  AGGREGATE BASE COURSE (L/SSHOULOER 300mm)                                                         Km  18+200  to  Km  18+600
  AGGREGATE BASE COURSE (R/S SHOULOER 200mm)                                                    RHS+LHS                                                :
(  GRANULAR SU8B-ASE (R/S SHOUEOER 200mm)                                                            Km  19+170  to  Km  19+920                     a
)  OEEP PATCHING (WHERE REOUIRED)
(  EXtSTING PAVEMENT STRUCTURE
0  EXISTING EMBANKMENT                                                                                                                             _
0   D. S T.



-,,>_    -                                                                        .               FHP Final Report
Figure -23
; _________    PHYSICAL PROGRESS 8B-II
Sr.       Descripilon        UnilT Tol          Toi    Plihned  Executed    Total           Total   Remaining        %
No.                                   Oty      Reviesi      Th I      This    Planned  Executed          Oty      Complete
_-    B. O. .                                    Oty       Month      Month                                           -
I  E arthWorks                 CM      17,500    7,600            0          0      7,600      9,441      .1,841  124.2%
2  Granular Sub-Base         CM      17,500    68,100           0           0    68,100    52,638       15,462   77.3 0%
3  Aggregatc Base Course     CM     135300:   234I500           O           n   234Z5O0   227,7:5        6,715   97.14X
4  Asphalk Base Course       Ton  1 10700   201,100             O           0   201,400   193_926         7,47 4   96.29
5  Wearing Course            Ton     71,500    65,0003          0           0    65,000    64,558           442   99.32%
6  DBST                      SM     404,000   188,755           0           0   188,755   185,463         3,29 2   98.26%
7 OlherWorks                      _  =    =               =    =
CaMsedlre  81ll-11
121( ,I,rsI  II ,.saxi Il, 800
M                                                                                      :So
0  n'llg                                                l                W                           L]i   100 v
7001
IOC)                                                                                 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
y                                                                                                           2 J  100 o
2n~~~~~~                                                              ly                                 I
:::.: PPlnnod Monthly  U          Aelunl Mnnhy      a    Plannod Accum   -    - Actual Accum
67



FHP Final Report.,
SECTION -1II
f1AINTENANCE
3.1   GENERAL
Th cWorld Bank StLalf Appraisal Report, docUments UnderAnnexureA, aRoad Maintenance
Action Plan. A covcnant to thc loan agrreitifent. Schedule5, paragraph 2, states the following:
The Borrower shall: (a) hy December 31, 1987 complete and furnish to the Bank for itg
comment, a Road Maintenalncc trrlhirig Programme for the staff of NHB and Provincial
C&W  Departmentcis and designed l'or die participation of local contractors; (b) thereafter
revisesaid plrogrammc t'king intcs acc)Odnlsuich comnienlt;and (c) implementsuch programme
in accordance withl a schoedule sctistaclory to tllc Bank.
i      The SAR elaborates on Iihe loan covciniot hy expressly detailing the following:
*      -    The nlairtCniance system shall bie desigiied to replace the present "Standard Sum per
Kilominet  of Road' (Yardstick) systCIm witlh a two tier system of maintenance based
on the dCmonstLrated actual marintenince nceds of each highway section, to be executed
to the cxtLeII possihlC tirotughi contracts in a phased programme for agreed and
*ilcasurcc(l quantities ol work.
-    Roald maineaniciel  activitie,s classifliedJ as 1 line which are those activities which are
Ie(ui-ed one oir mO  timICes I yetir io preserve pavements and Periodie which are those
activities wiliclh arc required once evciy sccondi or more years, only to reinstate the
'           pavemt'ents etc.
-    Tle Borrower slizll inake availablc tilc necessary fundis for the Periodic and Routine
Maintenanice ol tlie National llighway System ovcm the five year period 1987 through
1992.
-    The Borrower shalll estiablishi hy 31 December 1987, within NHB a Maintenance
Directorate headed by a Diirector. lrhe Di rectorate shall include a Pavement Monitoring
Unit and a Tralflc Enginucerlig L1iit andcl ai elenient of expertise in equipment
managermreltt.
-    The Maintenance Directoraec will evalutate ilte Routine and Periodic Maintenarice
needs in terms of measurcl dmmantlics and prepare an annual estimate based on these
quantities.
The Directorate shall pmreparc sceahlte contr1acts for PeTiodic and Routine Maintenance
antd shall prcqutalify conLractors sepdrutely for these works.
.lThe Direct6ratc will adiminister thlc Inainttenance works following a uniform procedure
OrinlsptCtions. work scheduling nd (quality cotitrol.
68



FHP Final ReP6t
3.2    DEVELOPMENT OF THE MAINTENANCE SYSTEM
A huclgct ol Rs 175 million was apIroved ror the maintenance improvement programme.
Procceds lrom the loan were to co ver til lt 50 per-cetl of Llis planned budget. Disbursement
I-romi loan fLd(s lor lithe inaintenance was idaide friom the Technical Assistance category.
ForTechnical Assistance the Ni-ill selectel tlhe cnginiecring rirm of Kampsax from Denmark
who mobilized stalT to Pakistan iti Au g itSI 1987. Thc NHB established a Directorate headed
hy a Director of Malotehaiice prldritd lo3   ccetnber 1987 as stipulated in the loan agreemenL
Duriniig Lhe remainder of 1987 and thtl Icoy part of 1988 the NHB Maintenance Directorate
]         assisted by the Consultants Kgt pst4x dovcloped a maintenarnce methodology and com-
mcilced detailed coidition sulveys of* Llic entire NaLional Highway Network.
Local contractors were exal'ined atid prelicalified in various categories for Routine and
Pcriodic Maintcnance. Iniiial manintcna:licc conilacts were awarded during mid 1988 and
j         were carlried out undrl the dircciloni ol tlic Maintenance Directorate and the consultants.
3.3  IMPLEMENTATION OF THE MAINTENANCE SYSTEM
13y the end ol 1999 LIhC Maintenance ol National Highways by pre measured contracts was
well underway and some 251) loc;al conti-lctors had developed sufficient skills to be
prequalil ied in thie various catcgories. Ihlic Main teniance Dircctorate had completed detailed
con(litioll sulveys ol all ol thle 6,.6)0 koinoctres of National Highways and the associated
s lU:t rue QieS .
A systein of i ssigi ilg points o a secl ioin ol ighlway hiad hecideveloped based oh the defects
notecd in a particular sectioni.
Based on this scoring system and( tilC n1iiber ol points allotted to a section of highway, (for
riding quality, numler of potholes, paivemict condition, shoulder condition etc.) the
MainteinanceliLelrventioniLcvel (MIL.)wusiitntoduced,thiusalloLtingacategorytoeachand
every sectioin of hiighway. From thiis systcm the DirectoraLe was able to identify which
sections of highway require routine maintcnaince or require peiiodic maintenance or-require
complece rcColstruclioll.
This was th(e first time in Pak-istani that a deLailed inventory had been made of every single
kilometre, hildge, culvcitL and other associated structures of the total National Highway
Network. Tlhesturveyisconduictco on ino aniniual basisand iscurrently used toupdate thedata
hase for the Pavemenut Management System.
3.4  FUNDING OF MAINTENANCE WORK(S
The amolulnt of llnds which are alloca lei biininmlly for maintenance works has always been
of conlcern to thie World sank, patl tIliirly alfter Lhe MIL system had been introduced. The
MIL system identilied withouLt dotihl Ltie vitriods sections requiring specific categories of
imaiiiteinanlce, thus accurale costing ol actlai Inaintenance needs was possible.
Given on Table 5 are the actual allocatlolis wlhich have been made annually and the actual
'IaIImIot rlequired to maliltai n tile highways.
69



FHP Final-Repoit
TABLE - 5
STATUS OF MAl ITENANCE FUNDS
YcrDedild          Allocntioi           Exnenditure.
1987-88        347.000               180.000                180.000
1988-89        422.77()              200.680                200.680
1989-90         474.5f$1             268.850                268.850
1990(X-91      600(1.0 tS           281.595                 281.595
1991-92        795.A)l              378.000    '            378.000
1992-93        9. 0t.pN             41 (.000                410.000
1993-94       1,i097.0t)06           430.500                430.500
1994-95       1.317.610(            452.000                 452.000
Total:        5,983.77t)-          2,601.625               2,601.625
The repeatcd anlull shortIall ir inlthictnance ftinding means that every year more sections
are mjovi ng fromn "maiintahil1c" stale lo ihe "complete rcconstruction" state. This phenom-
cna olfcoui-se is repearld dowiL tI ccl; In; sectioIS idenLi lied for routine maintenance become
candidatcs for- periodic and so on, (iuc Lo insurricient lunding.
In ordrc- to irmprt,ove the situation thle N1-IA negotiatcd a loan with the World bank during 1990,
specifically LO addrCess the mrlic urgent maintenance needs. The project, named the
"Maintenance Backlog Reduction Progranmime" was fumnded by part of a Transport Sector
loan, whliich was inainly uliliedl by ilic iakistan Railways.
In order- t(o allain a rcasoainahle lcvl ol tialliteniailce of the National Highway System it is
imperative that funds al located to mullnliciance are cohsistcnt with the requirements.
Thle culrir'enIt lcvel (11 Ilill(nilig necdIs lo ie mnorc than doubled to achieve this aim.
3.5    TRAFFIC ENGINEERING UNIT
As plart ol thie implementation progr aimlme eIcveloped by the World Bank and documented in
tih SAR, was Lh iiorniition wiLtin ilit Nl1 of ora Trafric Engineering Unit. The Unit was
fou-med (duinilig 1988, headed by a Dilteclor. Techilical Assistance was provided and several
traflic engiiecering related tasks were oiitceded to.
A road signing manual was developed in conjunction with the NTRC, line painting
specil-ications, mehliods and proposed schedules were developed, and the Unit proposed and
implemented several intersection designs.
70



FHP Final Report'
3.6   PAVEMENT MONITORING UNIT
A Pave,ncnt Monitoring Unit was developed wilhin the Maintenance Directorate with
llSSistance fronm lhe consultaiits Kcamfs;Mx.
This Unit has now hecn shirfed o 1l illle ftilng Wing of the NHA. The Unit is responsible
for updating on an annual basis al 0avenierlt Inrormation pertaining to the National Highway
SystLem.
. The Unit is responsible for keeping hti updaLlng the MIL which forms the basis of the annuai
maintenance plan and funding reqlilrcmenes.;
3.7    DETAILED REPORTING OF 4AINtENANCE ACTIVITIES AND ACHIEVE-
MENTS UNDER FOURTa HIGIOVWAY PROJECT
Giveni as Anilexure L to tIhis r-epor-t Is Khlthsax (Consultants for Maintenance) final report
whicil details tlhc development of Iie M4n bicnance Systcnr, the system "up and running" the
achievements of the system mnd thc tridlinlig aspects provided by the Consultancy.
71
.1-. 



FHP Final Report
SECTION -IV
HIGIHIWAY SAFETY
4.1  GENERAL
As a comnponetiL of LItC Fourit-li Fiiglway Plrojct, Higliway Safety was identified.
The Highway SaIeLy componeilL wMIS pIinned jolntdy by NHB, NTRC and the World Bank.;
The Highlway Safety componentl as hillmjed was to dddrcss:
-      EstablishilmelL of a Pilot-scale highway Patrol
j   -  Establishiment of a Drivi&gf Insltuctor Traininlg SchIool
A hUdgCt ol approximinately Rs 7(0 miillioni was deFined for the ini;tal set up, purchase of
I          eCqulipmnicit and operating expenses over a 4 years pcriod.
4.2  ESTABLISHMENT OF A PILOT-SCALE HIGHWAY PATROL
The I-ligliway latriol as planncd was lo he Set up on a trial basis operating between Jhelum
In (U1  lie A (tock br-idge. ai distLancc of I'iioui 2(10 kiIomcLrcs
j           Telc p-ropose(I dutes of tlhe H-ighway hi'trol were:
(a)    enillflcciticilL of Ltralfic 1 aws;
j                   (Ih)    traffic conlrol;
(c)    security on tile road;
(d)    assistance to straLndd(l roadl utsers;
(e)    assistance to otlirCI police roi-ces;
(I')    accidenlut ilvestigaLtioll.
The patrol was to be staffed by reCglUkr Polices Officers and equipped with motorcycles,
vchicles, anihulaiices 1heavy dil)ty wrecArs and comnmunications equipment.
Special training was Lo he givenI In:
(a)    traffic laws;
(b)    advanced dri iver [riiiilig;
(c)    tra ffic cnll orcemlllt;
(d)    first aid; an
(c)    acci(dclt illvestigat ioni and rep(orLinlg.
72



FHP Final Reporit
Dur ing 1988 much discussiont Look place helween Nl-{B, NTRC, the Ministry of Commuhit'
. I   calions and Wnrld ba n k rcpresetlatives regarding the logistics of implementing the proposed
Pautol. Agireemenit could not he reached on two major points:
I.    Whiclh autholrity woukl the pitturol operate under and to whom would it report.
2.     Finlanicinlg o llte Patrolflter[lie llltidl 3 years orso of operation when loan funds were
exh)aulstl.                                                            .
A nui lhcr ol other minolr andc not so  ilniir loglsLical piroblems also canie to light:
-      how would an olfenider he JuirsciUd for collection of fine after being issued with a
Licket for a inoving violatioull;
at whlaL ICVleves would i illCs he sel ai; and
j  -   aas the Police Forice are Pro'ilncial bodics, would the Provincial or Federal Govern-
jnenLt draw up the reqiireci legisl;tion.
Tliese pIus many oilier (uesnions weiLt utnanswecred and eventually World Bank gave an
ulilnatLul with trgad Is to theuse (lc IhLtullis, requesting tlat a clear and concise method of
operatioln for Lthe Patr-ol togetlhCI with the' necessary legislation and guarantee of future
l illnlici ng he reported to tile Bank.
Regirettably this was; lieveI- (dolne and tie comliponeCint was aborted.
4.3  ESTABLISHMENT OF A DRIVINqG INSTRUCTOR TRAINING SCHOOL
Tlhecornccptol iliiscoinlponnlwastiocx pd di(lriivertrainiing faciliieswhichalreadyexisted,
obtain suff'icicnl lzind fOr a drivilng clrci11lt CoInStriCt an aclministration building and instruct
a(lvanice(l diriving throughl a recognlzc(l ard reguilate(l syllabus.
Thc syllabus was lo coosist of the lollowinlg:
(a)    tral'l'ic law;
(b)    basic (dr-iving tCChInli(ulCes;
(c)    advance (dhiving;
(d)    auto mencch aniics;
(e)    instructional wtchnliqets; anid
(1)    examining.
Itwas pr)oposed tlhaLtheSchool c(uil(dI rl outtapproxirmately 120graduaLedrivinginstructors
Per annullm. Thro1-ugh1out I 988 Inu.enoiDIUS hicCtings aw(l (liscussions were held regarding the
prooposed progianinmec hlietwec  Nilinistry of Coinmuni nications, NTRC, National Highway
Board and Iltc World Bank.
73



FHP Final Report. /
AgrecmCIlt could nioL he rcached on many issues, amongst which were:
-      Wlhy suichi a large pIopolrtionl olF ie iiintnided budget was to be spent on a building
(approximiatcly 63% or ilic estiliaLcd component budgc: was to be expended on
constiructing u hbtilding to hoiUose 11L1 Dlrector ahd Drivinc School staff).
j  -   AFlter graddation what woLild a tuialil'icd Driving instructor do? How would he use
hiis qualifications?
S Uhsequent to the expendltdre Of the loan runds from whlcl would the establishment
draw future Financing?
These questioins went un;inswere tifild the flank reqiUestcd that a .Icar and concise proposal
slioul(l he put forth g!vilng tile retqired ailswors, wiLli time frames schedules, development
ol' provilncial diiving sclools anld I iaiicCs.
Sucl a report n0r justification tL the logistics evermaterialized and thercforethiscomponent
was nteve im)pleineiltedl.
4.4  DISCUSSION ON TRAFFIC SAFETY IN PAKISTAN
It is Iamenitahle Lh;at the FI-IP Traffic Salft y conponent did not lliatcrialize in one form or
allothicr as tralfic SaFcty in Pakisalla is alrocious.
The deati rate ain(d scerious in jtury ratw is extrecmely Ihighi wlhen vicwed as a ratio of accidents
to numnber of veihicies o  the ral. AccidetlL statistics are not rclii;le as many accidents are
citllhcr noto reported orare minisreliodccc.
Traffl'ic edut cation on 1the vellicle dii vinig puilic is almost non exist. nl. Drivers licensing falls
1111tine tile Provincial Governments adI(i is pooily regulated.
Contilol ol moving violationis is weak due to little or nlo tiaininig imnparted to Traffic Police
and(l illadCequteC eqLipment.
Safety measures such as warilig siglials, wilile lilles, if Ltley exist are blatantly ignored by
*imost drtivers. Most vehicles plyilg eile roads are deficient in basic safety devices, ranging
f* oin brakes to lights. Seat belts aire generally niot wornii and there is no seat belt legislation.
Vehlicies assemhbled in Pakistan arc asserlbed witlhout seat belts.
Thet piCturl is dismal.
Sever-al Road SafcL~y scmi iars hiave lceen heldtli In Pakistani d uring thic past decade, little or none
ol wlhat has beenl said at the semill-nar1s Is utl into practicc.
4                                                 74



FHP Final Report
SECTION -V
fECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO BALOCHISTAN
5.1    GENERAL
This compoinenit was originally JiaI6jied $o alThroit all provinces the opportunity to acquire
specific Technical Assistance lundeild  ih| lt1he procceds of the loan.
WithI tlhe exceptioni of Balochi sLah, wlho had received some technical assistance and
cqulipmenIt diiinig the Thir-d Higliw ay PrqjecL. none of tlle provTnces put forth a proposal at
the Project developrmenlL Stage.
From IrLcoI1mmen11dationls madelC (d1ing iith Thlirtid H1ighway Project forTechnical Assistance to
l3alochistan C&W  Dcpartmerl, a pIrog1rLIIiime was developed. However the SAR makes it
very clear tlhat no mionley from  lo;in procceds would be disbursed unless a detailed
implementation SCh1CedUlC Was SU,hm11iltech and approved by the Bank.
5.2  DEVELOPMENT OF A PROPOSAL BY C&W DEPARTMENT BALOCHISTAN
In tlh1 laterparm l 01987 tlieC&LW l3alochlistan suihmitted a proposal forTechniical Assistance
Wr the lollowilng:
-    Specialist assistan;1ce [ol tlle (LeveloptIlent o standard pavement designs.
-    Assistanlcc in dCeveloping Iuality control aniid purclhasinig of materials testing equip-
mienit.
-    Assistallce iln ecqluipmLelnt mahiagetnent.
-    Assistance in developiilg te use olf indigenIous materials for road construction.
On recommerdation.s IfromT the NHi3il the pi-ogr-anime was approved by the World Bank.
5.3  IMPLEMENTATION
The C&W Deparl-tmtClL Balochistatil clgagd(i hlie consultants M/s Mckee Associates (USA)
bor tlhe reqIriii-ed17Techilical Assist a ncc.
Duin11ig 198 and 1989 tlie two hinan cotisullaiat's teamr stationed in Quetta assisted the C&W
DepartLintiL in Llie ahov'e listed Lasks.
Lahora tory hu iid i ngs we rc ConSItRIcted ly the C&W  Department, at their expense at various
locations in the province. EqLuipmlTi iii lbi ;lie lahontorics was purchased with loan funds.
J. .--  T(he Consullant's inpuiits togetllrCI wit;  tir j hassessment, of the programme is documented in
--           t H   Ihc Consultant's Fin;al Repori. wiliclt Is lveli Us Annexute M.
75



FHP Final Repott
5.4   FiNANCIAL
The corTpolcilt had a planned huLdgl.o0r Rs 33 million of which a total of Rs 12.611 million
was spenlL on con1sult;ants services ailLd Rs 4.000 million was spent on purchasing laboratory
equipment.
5.5  ASSESSMENT OF THE COMAPONENT
To a dc.gree the objectives of tile tLbjlot1ideijl welr achieved. Proposed standard pavement
desigils wee provided c&WcoiistL1t dIJi cqui pment was catalogued and laboratorieswere
provided with tesing cqi iipmellt.
Unfortunately thc ul uil program -ne c6o4 ji hot he rcalized because the C&W failed to provide
suffl'icicllt and sound reasons ror :oiilliuuation.
.5                                          7
-i                                           76



FHP Final heport
SECTION - VI
FOlIRTI-I HIGHWAY PROJECT - CONSULTANTS
|6.1    GENERAL
t tis stipulated in tie loan agre-ement, in several different places, that tIe NHB will employ
consultants Lo pr-ovide technical assisiUnce lor various components of the project.
Sclhcdule 5 ol tlhc loan agecemnctll (i pimcinTcillation Programme) is explicit in stating that the
NFIB, no latcri than 30 September 19 7, slliall establish and maintain a Project Management
Cell with (duly qualiiicd stafl in sflflcliinL nltmIMbrs ihicluding three Project Management
ConIulI! tanIts.
[hle, Annicxuiic to SchledulCle 5 ol ili, olan ugreemnent, para 4 stip6latcs that the NHB shall
enlgaLgC stlitahibc Leecllnicall assistlance lor Ilic cdevclopimeilnt and implementation of the Main-
I cilm;icut D;irc'Lor1uLc
Thc SAR is inore explicit on exactly which coilponilents rcquired Technical Assistance.
For the implemnctiatlion of the Foni-Ii 1iglhway Project, Consultants for the following
disciplines were  engaged by thle NI It.
-    Project Mna:IemetL
-    Sutper1visionl o1f Coinstiution
-    M  i te na 11;1lice
-    Tee ic cal Assistance tlo laluciiisltin
-    Paveinen L Specialist
6.2  PROJECT MANAGEMENT CONSULTANTS
1hic Nl-113 sclcteLd Del .eLw Cathlcr InItlrnational Limited as project management consult-
The hasic obtectives ol ilIis collsutl;allcy were:
WorklinLg as co0t1-er-parts to Nl IB 11ers1onnel.
-    Develop and impleeni nt a project managemnent system for tlle FHP.
-    Dcvclop and iniplei-iment a corinputerized accoLinting system for FHP.
77



FHP Final Report
-    Mslonilor andl adlvise on Iihe lola1 pm.jrjclt including assistance to contractors with
regardls ta resources deplzoynelit i.L schediluling and caslh flows.
-    Devclop tile necessary inloOrmnalioli chianincls beLween contractors, consultants and
clicent.
Diclcuw Catlicr International mobilized Lltc following tllrce personnel Lo Pakistan during
Novernher 1987:
-    Advisor- to tile Projcct. Director
-    Plannel- ProgramiTner
-    Cost ConItrol SpecialisL
Subse qunc nt Lo r-eviewi nlg all I[pro ject dLIOcueLn1cltaLiont, mCetin1g with NlTIB senlior personnel and
visiting Lie prO jcct sielcs the colnsulIta1ts submlllittcd an Inception Report This report is given
as Annexurc MN1.
Working witlh thrce coluntelcrpalrtL sll join tile NHB whio had becn assigned to the Project
Maniagermeint Ccl, lie consulllants devloecd a management system and cost conu-ol system
or tdieprojeCt, inlaCC()lodanlCewiL[i tie cterms of eIcl'nlce given illnLleConsultants'agreement.
Thic original manage-1men1t c on1sultInts' agremenict was for 24 months which was extended
tihrie times andi actually covcreld a pCio)d ol 7 years: November 1987 to and inclusive of
Dccembecr- 1994. Diirinig this period  l )itnie thlc CnnsUlLunts' role was to cover many aspects
o mnianagemncillt o'Llic FoLu L1i-liglhway 13roljecL andi also inanagerial matters of the National
l-Highway Autlioity iieCl tiig tllhe r-oigunizalion aild tiansiLiol fr-om the National Highway
13Bard to NaLionail l-Highway Authority. 'tlich Management ConsultaniLs fully developed aid
implemented a i-nanlaLglecltlclLsystmaiIll(l all accoUnting and( costcolltrol system forthe Fourth
Highway ProjeCL.
Problems werc faccd ovcr the years (idci to the transfer of senior staff from the PMC to other
posts withlill the NHA. thuis creating iniconsistencies in the overall operation of the PMC.
Thle PMC reviewed al conIlract dociiments anild p roce(luies associated with the bidding and
A
aiward or contracLs and loidliorttecldl thesoe dotimrliles fo the use of fuiture NHA contracts.
Cons.ultaiits' agr-eeCments and terimis of h ecirice were reviewed anld standard documents were
dCvclopeLd hascd on tile Bank's stjidaid apgrecments. Tlel PMC was instrumental in the
dcvelolmellt ofl colmlposite schiedulc oi iJites and( the revision of tie standard specifications
-'ri- N-IA.
)uring Llie developl-nenit or the Maintenance DirectoraLe, the PMC was assigned the task of
. mllonitoring the operation and provitllnlg ldvice froin Lime to time on methodology and
F    _             mnage; eit|mt mnatters.
*                  The Policies and Procedures Maniual f;Or lihe NHIA was developed, documented and published
hy theC PMC  uInIgI1L 1 990 anIl  99 1.
78



*                                                                               FHP Final Report   /64
A contracts/projecl reporting system wtus developed and throughout the life of the FHP, a
Monithly Managemienit Report \vaus puiliis1hed1. The'rcport is largely computer generated with
sCt r-epot-ting f[onmats making it siminic o updlate.
Tb e Mon1tlly Managericnit Reports provide a comprrchensive project record.
The PMC atCtedcd to many tasks outsi{ce ti|er termis of reference. A listing of the major tasks
are given oni the loltowiig Tahle 6.
IA, E -6,
*      The Policics anid Procedures tMltiiual
1  *   Islanmahad-Lahlore Mlotoiw-y ciitract documents aild evaluation
*      NHA Re-organization
*      NHA Ordinance
*      Computer purchases
*      Indluclion ol Local Enghiecrs
*      Haro Bridge: Project Develve nicrit, Feasibility, Design & Monitoring
*>     TSP Engineering SCrVices 111d LICtLiocu lt preparation
-      World1 Bank liaison anid payment procedures
*      Projcct Co-ordin1ationL  & Desigil Rcview or MBRP ConLracts
-   +  DirectCSupe1vision1 ofFf11' Contracts, 8h & 8hIl
:  *   Developmlcnll ol'TofTeiii anld Length Mlaintenance
*      NmLIrCOLs  EValul;ltion Reporlts aind Driers
and
*      NumerlCt:ouLs TcChnical & Adin in ist rativ ye miaters
6.3    FINANCIAL
Thi!e Mnanagement Consulta1nts I1ees ad c)e ex 1ienses over tle 7 years agreement period amounted
to Rs 107 million or approximnalely 1.5 pc[ceilt of lhe total project amount.
6.4  CONSTRUCTION SUPERViSkON CONSULTANTS
For sttpCrvisiol 01o the constructioin or Fourthl I-lighway Pro'jct contracts, the civil works
.       component was (dividled into lwo groups:
SoLthcrn Gr-oup Contraicts
Nortrlinll Group Contracts
'lrc Southie rn Girouil) coniracts conisistc(e ol Contracts 1, 3a, 3b & 4. Tlie Northern Group
Contracts cotisisted( ol ContLacts 5, 6a, 6h 7a, 7h, ga, 8bh and SblIl.
T'lhc NIH-B seIctCLe  PRC Engi necr i ng Inc . (11 1ol landI) i h association with Engineering Consult-
anis for thlc SoLut1herIn Gro01p Conitrai:cts. Fot tihe Northeilrn Group Contracts Freeman Fox
79



FP Final Report  /,-
6-6    MAINTENANCE CONSULTANTS
The N -113 selected Kamnipsax (Deni ark) IoI Techlnical Assistance for the development of and
impl7emenLatioll of the maintenance system.
Thle Kampsax stalfI coinmenccd mobIizL1zJon to Pakistan in August 1987. The consultancy
was starfed with Cl.ween 3 and 7 expi4lalies al iny oije time, depending on the nature of work
beiilg perflormed.
The consultanits successfully develoed thllc maintenance system and implemented the
sysLetm in con junction witli Lhel Maintenance Directorate.
Tlhe beginning of a daia base ror-  tluvemnelit management system was achieved with the
comnpleLionll ol the invenl(ory for al[ sections Of the National Highway System.
The Consultanlt also (deployetd several fleld cngiineers whio actually supeiwised maintenance
activities   e  tie ield, wlich was illsiiliuenlal ip developing small local contractors into
reliable Inailltellance con tractors.
Theconsul tantw;as alsollighlysticcesskil in Iransferrinlglthermanagementof the maintenance
systeill to tlhe a ppropri;lle levels ol slI If witdiin the N[IA.
The imiainteinacecc cistalints demrobilized in midl 1994.
6.7    FINANCIAL
Total lues and otelel( dirct costs paid lo Kampsax for Teclhlical Assistance for maintenance
systemll developmentc lnd implementation was Rs 127 million.
6.8  OTHER CONSULTANTS
Tllhere were several othier consiltants and firms cngaged dIUIring thle Fourth Highway Project
Ibor various tasks. All consultants were engaged in accordance with World Bank criteria.
6.8.1    SUPERVISION
The 1-Ii r of En gi neerling CoInsUIltaiuis 1 1 !nitd werIe engaged by tle NHA for the supervision
of, the relabilitittioil Contacts Xhll and(I 81h1. Their selection was based on the fact that
Contracts 3b and 4  had beenl (cferietl In pie frence of Contracts 8bI and 8bbI. Shortly after
commencement ol these contracts lie, ifirmn of Associated Consultancy Centre were also
}employed by thlc NI IA lIor superivision of the mnain part of Contract 8bl.
The suLper'visionl of llaro BiidgL' was ttwvaded to A. A. Associates (Karachi) due to their
design modifications which saved miotley on the construction. Engineering Planning and
Management Consultllnts (Lilhoro) weie awarded lhe supervision of the Shahdara urban
X-  ;-        area re-habilitationi works whichl weru carride otit as a variation order to contract 8bI.
[ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~81.
-_| 2



-    .                                                                        Fl-HP F inal Report
^. -.-
:Enginering Planning: and Managemen Consultants were also awarded the design and
conlstructioIn sulper-visioin ol' IhC Rahim Yar Khan and Minchlin Canal Bridges.
Samtec Group l1ntel1nationll  were awardced the supervision of 3 minor bridges on the N-5
near Kamokey.
6.8.2.   FEA SIB rLIT 1)Y ANI) 'IRELIA1iINA I? Y DESIGN
The lfirm ol Sampak Inte-rnational werc awarided lhe feasibility and preliminary design of
the rehabilitation) ol llie existinlg cwtingeway betwccn Gujranwala and Rawalpindi.
6.8.3    DOCUMENTA 7'ION
Sampak were ngage(d by thle NHA to p)rCpare thlle current schedule of rates and to revise
the. standard specil'icalLioiis.
6.8.4    SI'ECIALISTS
Professor B. Valleriga was retainetd in review the pavement designs and in particular to
determllilnc tlhe reasonis for pavellme1L failulcs evidenced on Contract WbII.
6.8.5    FINANCIAL
Total fees paild to linginering Consultants aMid Associated Consultancy Centre for the
SUe)Cl'Vision oli,;ilracts 8Hi and 81i amounted to about Rs 33 million or approximately
2, o1f th total constIuLIction Cost.
6.8.6    Total ces l)aid to all oilier coinsultaLnts  Tmoutlted to approximately Rs 21.331 million.
42
I
82



FHP Final Report
SECTION -Vl I
7.  EVALUATION OF CONTRACTORS
7.0.1    GENERAL
Withoutexceptionl loralIlthree ronidi(|s ofcontracts that were bid, contractors wereslowto
mobilize, in spite of the gCenCeOus (25% of contract value) mobilization advances paid at
siginiilg ol-each conlltact.
In geneial local coil ractors lackedi 1ilchineryand  lahnL at the start of their contracts. The
Interlnational ConlLractors f'aced dil'iicility witlh the inportaLion of plant into Pakistan.' All
contraCtOs WCI-C affeCCCte to sorne (dIgrce 6y loldups dUe LO land acquisition of the right of
way.
During the initial stages of botlh the Round I and Round 2 contracts, local contractors
atternpted the haulage of mraterials. specifically cmhaniiment material with tractors and
Lrolleys. The ilnlux of large (lumller trucks from Afgghanistan, on reasonable hire rates,
eventually replaced thle exiensive uSe ol tractors anid Lrolleys which are slow, having no
d(umping mechanism.
7.1     INDIVIDUAL CONTRACTORS
7.1.1    J&P (OVERSEAS) LIMITED
J andl P (Overseas) Limitede is u mcdiuim  sized (gross US$ 600 million per annum)
International ConlsLtLructionl coin pany NViltI itS Oligilns in Cypr-us.
Thlie company wvas responsible for Ihl conistr-uction of FHP Contracts 1, 3a, 8bI and 8bII
whichl cOIlstiltLLcd approximately 4(1 plcrcenL of the total value of work done under the
Fourthl  Highway Pro,ject. The Comlpny Is well organi7ed and has strong management.
J&.P shiplped thcir original cornponetCl11 of CeLuiipmclnt for Contracts 1 and 3a from Oman.
Subsequentl equipment was cithicr shipped irom oLher projects of J&P or purchased new.
Tlihroughlout tlie coistruction of rUBtr  ContLr-acts by J&P the company obviously had
suLIficient financial resourices to coiiiiiue working even when evaluation were delayed for
lenigtlhy periods.
The companiy leverI had any prolelmins furnishing the required Bank Guarantees in
accordanlce witl tlhe contract. The two most difficult contracts of the Fourth Highway
Pro ject were Contracts 8bl and Xhi, lbotl execuLed by J&P. Working on the N-5 under full
traffliccondlilionsI-Cqutired detaile(ld avance planning,wlichthecompanywassuccessfully
ahle to accoilmplishl.
The compiany's expatriate staff wrcn all well qualiflied and experienced and included
expertise in mnatlerials enigiinciniig Lis well as contractual matters.
83
7,q-



; --                                                                          FHP Final Report
7.1.2    SECA
Seca originally carme lo Pakistan In joint veniture with a local company, Al-Khan
Co(nSlructioI. The joint venture was rraught witlh problems from the start which ended,
alft ab aout a ycar in a break upl) o ltle J.V.
Seca of Italian origin., [lad trouble Ifn11ishing Bank Guarantees for performdnce and
adlvance payments.
Insuti-icint equipmnent, poor ianigeiment and continuous cash flow problems plagued the.
contractor throullout lis work oni Coitract 2.
Durinlg 1992 Lhe Nl-A gavescrious copls ieraLion to rescinding Seca'scontract, butinstead,
based onl ecoInomiical girountids dcklied to enhance somne of the contractor's rates allowing
hlimin tO COmilpieLe tlhe conltract.
UlnfollunaLtely, sliortly alfteir completion Colntract 2 cxlhibited severe failures.
Seca evientually cxtracted thenselivcs fromn Pakistan by selling their operation to a local
contracLor.
7.1.1    NAZIR AND COilIPANY (1'VT) LI,lfl7ED
At tihc developilient stige of IIth Fou rtil I-lighway Pro ject, Nazirand Company were one of
two olr tillcc local Collmpanlies whio were capable of preclualifying for a majorintemational
type lighwLay construction pro ecl.
Thle company, originally alnmost Xclusively involved in electi-ic power transmission lines,
hlad SUCCCSSIfUlly CompleItLed a maJor hliglhway conlract during the Third IBRD Highway
Project.
IN;azir and( Companly wer e awarded Contracts 7a and 7b (Gujranwala-Kharian) of the first
rounid FHP Contiracts at a bid  r;iice ofl R.s 490 million (about US$ 28 million at 1987
excllangec).
As a condilion to thc award Nazir nl1(d Company were to engage the services of three
expatriate contract mnanagcmient specialists. Nazir complied with a requirement and
Mobilized thrl-ee CxpatliaLes. The mana111,gCineent experts did not last long and within a year
Nazir andl Co. hlad delmiobilizel tijtimi.
N;ziI and ComUpany's mrnobilizijtion onit) tdie contracts was painfully slow. A negligible
amlnoLllt ol work was perfolmed on the contracts during the first 18 months.
Insuflicient plant and CLuiipmeIlt Mnd lax on site management drove both contracts further
and firthlcr l'romn any reasonable progircss.
Finally thL contr:actor comminiLld In (leployinig all resources on one contract, which would
he substantially comnplclctd pirior to remohilizing to the otlher. This planning was not
successful antd achieved progress was little better tlhan prcviously.
84



FHP Final'Repot ,
Both conitracts werI eventually cornipleted,a one (luing 1 993 and the other at the close ofthe
.-7 .t     loan, Decemnlbcr 1995.
During the eighlt year s ol construction tlhe contracts piicc had increased due to escalation,
re-rating, clains and variations Ir-om lSs 491) million to Rs 950 million.
The perfomnance olf Na.zir andi Company on FIIP contracts can onily be termed as poor.
7.1.4   IIUSNAIN CONSTRUCTION Cd4ifPANk (PVT) LIMITED
Husnain Construction Cornpiuly was awarded a second round FHP Contract No. 6a
(Mianchannu-Chak Beihn i). At llime or rPeqial iication the company was only just able to
j        meet the prequaliFication ciiterIlu.  The comipany's previous experience in highway
constiuction had been almost eotjrcly limltdL to provincial road works with the exception
ol thc A. C overlay othLIec Sulperil-lighway durilng 1986 and Lhe earth protection works of
the Talibwala Bridge (Chcenah River) (Juriing 1988 ancd 1989.
The company lacked modcrn e(uiplmellt and good management. At the inception of their
proJecLt the company did inveSL heallvily in dddiLional plant and equipment. Management
problems WCIe evenItLLally r.ationtilized aund 1-lusnaini Construction was the first local
construction company to use pa%ving mnachines to lay aggregate sub-base and base
mater11ials.
Tlhe contract had been closely priced aund dtirinig 1991 the contractor started having severe
cash now problicms. *rhe Engineer willi the acceptanceo'flthecClientworked outare-rating
lor ithe NortlChen GCrouj Conllrcts aS all were lloutldeidfng. With a 70 percent increase in
timTIe tlhe contractor COnmplet(e Ile contract successLully on 15 May 1995.
The qLuality of F-lusinain's work is gooLd, both road works and st-uctures. The Kassowal
Overhead bridge is one of tlec hbest examples in Pakistan of a quality built structure.
IHusn1aill ConstrCtionl Company have si nci iriple their flcet of constructionequipmentand
*        cuirrcntly have morc work witli the National H-lighway AuLhoirty, with the exception of the
Lahore-Islarnahad Nlotorway Project conlractor.
Husnaini Construction Company is onie. of lwo local contractors who emerged from the
FouLrthli- ighway Project witlh su ilcicit eqiuipment and expemience to compete Internation-
ally on l-lighlway Construction Pro.jects.
-7.1.5    SAADULLAI KIIANANI) BIROTIHERS (SKIJ)
At the commencement of the Fouri-tl lI-iglhway Project SKB were a medium sized local
.I        contractor. Their pirevious road 1biuiildinlg expemicnce with the NHB had been during the
Third Highiway Project (TI11).
Due to some f:aile(d sect ions ol the Tll P conLract between Lahore and Okara SKB had failed
to pricqualily for the 1irst round(I Fl-it' contr'acts.
Upon posting a guLar1atcc against Ilihe dcCLsof theliri THP con tract SKB were permitted by
NHA to hid in the. secon(d roIund(i ol  Eli P contracts.
86



FHP Final Report
SKB werez awarded FHP Cohlract 61) (Chak Behni-Sahiiwal). SKB appeared to have.
reasonable plani anid cquipment and apparently finiancial resources.
Slhortly al'ter mobilizing onto the cointract, SKB comnmeniced stock piling large quantities
ol' griavcl, wlhichi tlhcy processe(d oil site for thie different categories of aggregates. This
initial build up ol' mater-ials was tco save the contraclor well throughout the contract.
As witli Husnain Constl-ucLioll aliX Ntizir and Company, SKB ran into problems with cash
ilow duLing the scconid and third yed-s ol'ilhe contract. Contract 6b was re-rated upwards
and Lile contracL waIs comnPletet  15 May 1993.
SKI3 have duiing ti,he last 2-j years 4cquilred substantially more plant and equipment and
are currenLly ellgagCed by Nl A oni two ladrge highway conslruCtion contracts.
7.1.6    GIIULAMll  RASUIL AtND C'OAP1' (GRC')
GRC a mcdium sized local Con1Str ucLi(ol company, almost entirely devoted to structures,
was awarded Contract 8a comprIsinig 4 miajor bridges on lhe N-4 between Gujranwala and
K lari; mn.
CRC pr0oved Lo be a companlly wcll ceLuippcd and witlh capable management. Subsequent
Lo maobilizing onto thle bridge siles itic contractor sp1ent a large portion of the mobilization
advance on tlhC purchaxSe of mlaterials: steCl, cement, sand and aggregates.
Duriig tilhe tenare onl this conirnct the contractor added substantially to his equipment
acqLuirilng a launicllinig truss and hlis owlh pilinig equipment.
Uill'ortullatcly, seveic lloocs uLing lic Monsoons ol' 1991 adversly affected the progress
onl these Contracts.
As withi tlhe otcihr  Northern Contracts this contract was subject to re-rating and was
suLCcessfully compllzeted duurinig Apr ii 1993. The contractor's work is of good quality and
hie was well organized thrOiui.ghout tlhe cointract.
Thlle cointractor is cuLirently engaged in additionial bridge construction for the'NHA.
7.1.7   MiOIIANDASIN-E-I1ASUD
Mohandasil-e-Masud a small to nie(lium sized local contractor, specializing in structures
was awardJe(d the JIlamo Br-idge CoiilracL No. 8001, on the N-5 North of Islamabad.
The contractor possessed suff'licienlt c(luipment for the job and maintained reasonable
management.
--;   MohIandasi1 ComplelCd tlIC contriact on timeZ and within cost, in spite of difficult working
conditions duLe to floods duirinig 1 992.
J         TTheContractor iscurentCiLlyengagcd witIh heli NaLional HighwayAutlhority on theconstruc-
tion ot' b)ridges unliric tlihc Flood Rclief 'rograrmme.
86



FHP Final Report
7.1.8    OTIIER CONTRACTORS
During tlle course of' tlc F-IP, several olter conlractors were utilized by the NHA for
structures, road works dIrainage works, 1encing, signing etc.          a
Soine or tiiC C01 t rcl cIO I S pco CI. o  .s a i hi-con tractors to the larger firms whilst otiers were
employed directly hy the NI-1A. Spilie Ibr these cohtactors were contractors who had
commenced with tihe Maintehanice Wltig and "graduated" to larger works.
A listing ol tlle more successrul andl iecomnmncilded smaller contractors is as follows:
1.    Abdol llakini Klian & Sons
2.     Highway and Oriitdges Internalional
3.     Malik Amnjiid & Co.
4.     Slhcikifl iRzaq & Co.
5.     Kliilidi RILuf & CO.
Thlle foIloWilg Table. 7 gives an indication of ilhe ra(e of progress achieved by the major
hiighway coinstircLion contractors:
TABLE- 7
Average
Progress in
__nox ter                   Coi,tract No,                Length (Krn)         (Knr/month)
J&lI (Overseas) Lini(ed      l, 3a, 1l4h and Rhll        251                    1.70
Nazir &Y Company            7a and 7h)                   94                     0.60
i-lusnain Consiruclicon     6a                           39                     0.86
Saudidilil Khan & Br-os.    61h                          41                     0.91
Sea 2n                                                   67                     1.0
87



FHP Final Report
SECTION - VIII
SUMMARY
3.1  ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The Fourth Highway Project objectives as documented in Chapter I, paragraph 1.4 of this
report and as depicted in thc report as thc four main project components of: Civil Works,
Maintenance of National Highways, liglhway Safety and Assistance to C&W Department
Balochlistai, weire accomplislied in fuill or in part as presented in the following Table 8.
1' r.ij cc 
Project Otiecitive              Acco ilpl bifinelts                     Remarks
(a)     To lower trans-   (a)         A total of 514.7           The Civil Works completed during
poratation  costs on          kilonierres of N-5 lighway, in    the FourthhlighwnyProject have
the  Karachi-Peshawar   various cirerches berween Kxrachi   realized ite objectiev of
N-S   National Highway   andl Ranalpiiidi have heen dualized   substarntially lowering
by road  rehabilitation    is recrnsIruicied to high quality. 7.3  transportation cost on serdioiS
(Civil Works)                 imeire wuile carriage-ay. Of ihe 514  d4alized or recorm:,ruced.
kim 354 kiis were dunlized and 160  speci(tcally between Lalhom and
k,i were  In iMwiipied Iawoirndi. Thi component is
rcl'ii1i1riiiacd.                judlged higlgy suicce.ssful. realizing
art owrall recontrruction cost of
A i(,inI t,f 10 mi,jor hriidge and  nppmr. RJ 10 million per
ovmrflt%ls were  isianri mluNi 9    kilaneitre (iicludes all strufJurTs
r,cl.ir hnIsgcs were eilher ru vi,-ked    and ancillary wnrkr)
i. ren iinlrucil.
Nurwicrius niji(e -(wrk. ccinsoirng
of: Re"enlrucmfi,n. cut widening.
(ctai'iii .iinrulures. draiainge wocks
mid rrail cigisn were ctiiipleled.
(b)    To  develop  the   /b) h        liiiially a NMainlenmice  Buth objeclives ofdeveleping a
capacity of the               I)irectinnle wau fontidil withia lie    maintenance systen andapmrject
National Highway              NJI B  tili Ian laierly hbeete the    nornageornenlystem  owve been
Board (NHA) to plan           Maimltiiire Wig withtin tlc        ochiievert
and  manage Highway    NI[A. Iltniler tiis Directorate
Maintenance  and              (Wilig) a maitiienance ymc nem iaw    Btrh conmponents however will
operation  and  to            been develoleld. based Nn aclual   reqiire rrroniforing by top NHA
Introduce  modern            nirvinaiiiifiserdr bypriovate       natagmert to ensure longlenn
technical and  financial   cclr imirtictlie tihroughlilenti.ed   effecrtiveness.
management                    midi meisured coirarls.
practices.
Tim two, lier Iiaintciasice nystern
coverhig Rculitize and Periodic
Maintenance is baed ren a sctring
systen acenainied on an aniual
basis to obtain mnaijiteiatce
requirelents aiii ciint.
I'le NI IA Mainilenance Wing is a
fully safrfed irgrauiam ion. with
cciitrail plmiihig mud executiir i firrn
Ile lwtrsviires. Ilic Wing also
inicludles a P'Avettetil Monitoring
Unoit 0IiMU).
Al lie incelplirn of tlie i ilP a
Project Nianagerient lCell (PNIC)
was finned iti aidiresu niaingeinent
masli proljet finciial nmaters.
Thle PMC hart developed a
comnplreiensive inniagenient and
re1wrliig ystemi. The PMC has
alko IcdveltId a proiject auiting
mii fi rici;d systelt enabling
filumial tracking antll citroils ti, be
tmualiiainitud.
lire PMC is currretily IveadIed hy ire
GlM (Ci'st.fnlii(qo alii iLs grmiually
iioirpmrriing ,Il NI IA pelijects into
ire Maitagetrienl Systeni.
88



FHPF Final Report
(c)     To improve            lhc project comioncpits as planned   Acconmplishmnoents were ininitnalfor
Traffic Safety  on           wrce for a Ilighway Patrol and a   tle planned objectives.
National Highways.           Drivitig instructors School.
7This sulbject urgently requires
Ncidier of dimes two componcnts    addressing on a national kveL
was accoiilshcd. Deiails are
given in Chalplcr IV of thsis reporL
AccomplishmincLs of this objective
were to physically iinprove various
incrscctions anid "black spots" on
the N-5 Ilighway.
(d)    To develop  the   (d)          Through tie developmenit   The objectives as setforth hmae
capacity of Pakistani    Of the maintenance sysem niore        been achievedand the highway
contractors to  execute  than 1,000 simall contractors lhave    conrtruction industry in Pakistan is
maintenance  and             acquired di-L;skills and eCiquiptien tt  now solidly based.
rehabilitation  works          erlfonn Rouline an(l Icriodic
using  modern                Maintcilance.
techniques,
equipment and                 l wo nmunstreamn ConLr:1Ctors have
materials.                   cimerged  dule to iLe rFourth
I lighway Projcct. Botl of these
contractors have obtained moden
equipmnent and leanit modern
teci iiiques of highway construction.
Mana-gemncti 11as improved 100 fold
an1d odli comilpaniies have developed
niio(lcfli coinputerizc(l pricing and
inanagemcnt systcmns.
Boli I lusnaimi Comnstruction and
SKB are capagble of consimucting
large (USS 50 millioin) hiighiway
prqjects.
(e)    To continue to    Altuioigli fundinig for Nlaititenaice   This objective was not aclhieved.
mobilize  revenues           has inarginally increased durinig the
from  road users for         project period (alihoughi still    Howvever with the creation of a
the  Maintenance of          inisufrficicent) diireci reveiues from    ,mwintenance systemn by which
National Highways            road user charges has ncvcr hccn a    acrt al nmaintenance needs can be
source of hIndts for road         n measured, awareness lhas been
mininntcen,mce.                   created wvithin top NHA
muanagetnent of thze need to have
During dte history of tie         suficientfundsfor mainaenance and
NI IB/NI IA it hias nevcr been    continuous pressure is being applied
Governmcit policy to separately    to policy Ynak-ersfor an increased
deftine road uscr charges for    funding leveL
iainitnance fundinig purposes.
Funds for maintenleianceurc r allocated
on an anmual basis direct from the
Treastury. Tic alltocation is based
ona  pre-defince bLmdget wlticli has
ncvcr bhen reflcctive of actuld iceds.
4                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~89



FHP Final Report
8.2    DISCUSSION OF PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
The achiievements of thle objectives ol' the Fourth IBRD Highway Project have been very
positive to the overall National Highway Network and have not been limited to the absolute
physical improvemenit of those sections of liighway which were constructed.
At the start up of the Fourth Highway Project, the Nalional Highway Board was located in
halfa dozen ol'fices over a bakcry in oHc of Islamabad's mark-ets. The Board was headed by
a Director General and had an overall annual budget of just over Rs 1.0 billion. At the time
the ongoilng developmCent projects werie limnited to 2 or 3 projects, the largest being the
Hydcrabad bypass with an estirnatcd construction cost of approximately Rs 300 million.
The adven t ther efore of the Fourthl Highway Project with a potential budget of around Rs 5.0
billion requir-ed more planning, administiation, technical inputs and management than the
entire NaLional Higlhway Board. The National Highway Board and the FHP becarne
integrated asonle. AstheFHPconi,stituted abouL9OpeicentoftheBoard'sworkload, theFHP
systems autom atically became thL  NI-B's systems.
Tihe World Bank had lor some time advocated a strong autonomous body capable of
planniiing, ceveloping, op,elating andc mailntaining the National Highways and to this end the
various technlical assistance availed to the NHB lor lile Fourth IBRD Highway Project, was
instrumental in assisting Llhe MiinistLy of Communications in establishing the National
Higlhway Authiotity.
Thle iniLial organization structure for the NiiA togethler with the proposed Policies and
Plrocediries were developed diniiig tlic Foutiilh Higlhway Project and implemented during the
3rd and 4Lt1 year of ltle projeci.
This was fortunlate because durinlg 199 1 the Government of Pak-istan embarked on a massive
higlhway ConlStrUCLiOnl programme, awarding bids betwcen late 1991 and mid 1992 of around
Rs 60 billion (inicludes Lahore-Islamahad Motorway).
The annual development budget was increased to around Rs 20 billion, but later trimmed
hack to about Rs II billion, at wlhiclh level iL has remainied during the past 3 years.
The institLutionial grounld worEk laid dullring tlhC Four th Highway Project was instrumental in
enabling the newly formned NFIA in dealing witlh this tremendously increased work load.
The metamor plhosis of the NHB to thle N1-A may definitely be attributed to the organizational
streng-tleninlg and the Policies and Procedur-es developed through the Fourth Highway
Project.
90



FHP Final Report
8.3   SUMMARIZED PROJECT FINANCIAL INFORMATION
8.3.1    GENERAL
The Fouritl IBRD Highiway Project, Loan No. 2814 for the sum of US$ 152 million was
signed betweenl thc Governimient ol Pakistan and the World Bank on 10 September 1987.
Thc pertileinL details of the loan ale shown on the following Table 9.
TABLE - 9
BASIC LOAN INFORMATION
-  Amount of Loan                               US$ 152 million
-  Date Signcd                                  10 September 1987
-  EquivalenL Amount in 1987                    Rs 2,584 million
-  Commiimeint Charge (on unLutilized balance)  3/4 of 1%
-  Initeest Ciarge                              1/2 of 1% above
qualified borrowings
-  Grace Peilod                                 5 Years
-  AmouLnt of Loan ULilized                     US$ 151.40 million
-  Loan Closing Date                            31 December 1994
-  Extended Loan Closing Date                   31 December 1995
8.3.2    LOAN DISBURSEMIIENT
Dur ing telc first t ilce I iscal years (1986-87, 1987-88 & 1988-89) of the project, disburse-
ments were substantially less tlihan scihedulcd. This was due to the delay in the commence-
menit of Llte civil worlks and also duc to thie slow progress on two of the major contracts.
The lollowingg Figure - 24 shows ihe scliedule disburscments and the actual disbursements
made duiing the lile of the piro ject. Disbuisements increased considerably during the
period I Septeilheme 1990 to 31 Dccembel 1994 due to the increased ratio of 70 percent
World Batik / 30 percent Governmenl of Pakistan, payable for civil works costs.
The loan proceeds were disbursed against the following categories:
Category         Description                 Amounit (US$ Millions)
I            Civil Works                          126.300
2            Techinical Assistance                 25.100
ApproximaLcly 27 peircent of tle lon was Utiilized in US$ payments and the remainder was
convertcd to Rupees.
91



FHP Final Report  -
FHP FUNDS DISBURSEMENTS
SCHEDULED AND ACTUAL
Amauli 6 "   ,
I    A. 0. P. A    L O  C A TIO       I NELEASES                            I      EXP Et          T U R  E
FINANCIAL
YEAR        LC           FC         TOTAL          LC          FC         TOTAL          LC           FC         TOTAL
1966-87        250.000       10.000     260.000      223.905                  223.905      223.905                   223.905
1987-88        141.000     257.000      398.000      141.000      182.522     303.522      105.577      123.745      229.322
1988-89        126.607     232.381      358.988      126.607      160.713     287.320       85.040      123.779      209.419
1n0o-90        288.000     325.000      013.000      288.000     259.184      547.184      287.235      284.599      571.834
1990-91        269.500     280.500      550.000      269.500     309.855      579.355      330.170      374.355      704.525
1991-92        339.662     260.338      600.000      339.662     565.051      904.713      328.895      540.348      889.243
1992-93        447.300    1.159.000    1,506.300     715.241     819.494    1.534.735      811.484      828.971     1,640.435
1993-94        378.000     882.000    1.260.000      398.435     719.839     1.118.274     331.128      863.806    1,194.932
1994-95        298.000     696.000      994.000       93.409      859.583     752.992       91.747      558.270      68A.017
1995-96        100.000     250.000      350.000      130.414      156.113     286.527      130.414      154.241      284.655
TOTALI  2,638.0691  4,3S2.2191 6,990.2881  27286.1731  3,812.3541  6 538.5271  2 726.1731 3,850.1141 6,576.2871
8.3.3  GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN FUNDS
As a condition of the loan the Government contributed to the project a portion of the cost
of the civil works.
Initially and as given in Schedule I of the loan agreement, the proceeds from the loan would
cover 51 percent of the cost of civil works and the Government of Pakistan would cover
the remaining 49 percent.
All other categories of the loan were financed 100 percent from proceeds of the loan.
At time of signing the Government's commitment to the project was approximately Rs
2,000 million which represented 49 percent of the cost of planned civil works. As of 01
September 1990, due to the Gulf War the disbursement ratio was changed to 70 percent cost
of civil works to be paid from loan proceeds and 30 percent the Government of Pakistan.
This condition prevailed up to and including 31 December 1994, at which time disburse-
ments reverted to the original 51 percent to 49 percent ratio.
The impact on the project of the changed disbursement ratio was initially to decrease the
overall project budget as demonstrated by the following equation:
(a)    Civil Works to be financed by the Loan at 51%:                                   US$  120.5 million
Equivalent 1987 Rupees:                                                       Rs 2,048.0 million
GOP Contribution at 49%:                                                      Rs 1.968.0 million
Total Available for Civil Works:                                     Rs 4,016.0 million
92



FHP Final Report
(b)   Civil Works to he 1inianiced biy t(ie Loan at 70%:   US$  120.5 million
EquivalenL 1987 Rupees:                             Rs 2,048.0 million
GOP Cont;ibution aL 301%v:                          Rs  878.0 rriillion
Total Available for Civil Works:              Rs 2,926.0 million
For this reason Round IllI contracts were postponcd until the later part of 1991 when it
became obvious that the declining valuc of the Rupee would effectively generate more
Rupees from the exchange of US Dollars from the loan.
As shown above thle 1987 loan Dollar-s cquated to approximately Rs 2,048 million at an
exchange ratc of Rs 17 to US$ 1. By tle end ofthc projecttheexchange ratehadspiralled
to Rs 35 to US$ I, a devaluation of over 10(%. In real terms over the life of the project the
US$ 120.5 million generated approximately Rs 3,100 million, an increase in the Rupee
component of appproximately Rs 1.0 billion.
Based on Lliis scenario the Round IlI contracts were awarded at the end of 1991.
Thle actual project expenidiitires mlet by the GOP on an annual basis are given on the
following Table 1O.
TABLE - 10
DETAILS OF FUNDS RELEASED FROM GOP
Financial Year                 GOP Releases (Rs in Million)
1986-87                               223.9
1987-88                                141.0
1988-89                                126.6
1989-9()                              288.0
1990-91                               269.5
199 1-92                              339.7
1992-93                               715.2
1993-94                               398.4
1994-95                                93.4
1995-96                                77A
Total:             2,673.1
NoLC: Amounts also include NiA estahlislhment charges etc. and do not represent only
payments for Civil Works.
93



FHP Final Report
CONTRACTORS
1.    BIDDING
The lirst rouLndl ol FI-IP CO1ntraU:IS comipirpising Contracts 1, 3a, 7a and 7b attracted a
rcasonahly good sliowing of hids, bhli fiom local firms and International firms. For
these four contracts a total of 15 biids were submiLted.
The second round of bids consisting of ConLracts 2, 6a, 6b and 8a recorded a poor show-
ing with only 9 bids submitLed for all four contracts.
The tlhird and final round of bidding for Cohtracts 8bI and 8bII recorded only two submit-
ted bids, both by International Bidders.
No apparent reason can be given lf lic pt')oI response to Rounds 2 and 3 as all rounds
wc,c cqually advertisCdl thiough Forum and local newspapers. The following Table 11
summariises the heids awarded dur ing tlie Fourtll Highway Project.
TABLE -11
Colit.  Section               Lengthi (Kim)      Conitractor           *Accepted Bid
No.                                                                       Amount
(Rs nmillion)
I       Karachi-Hyderahaid I       68            J&P (Overseas)            281.8
2       Karachli-Hyderahad ll      67            Seca/AlKhan               268.8
3a      1-lyder-abad-Flala         46            J&P (Overseas)             175.6
(6a     Mianclhanilu-Clhak Bclhni    39.2        Husnain Constn.           268.2
6h      Cliak Beihni-Salliwal      41.4          SKB                       250.2
7a      GuJjranwala-Chenab Biidge  47.5          Nazir & Co.               248.6
7h      Chenab Bridge-Kharian      46.2          Nazir & Co.               228.8
8a      Four Briidge oni 7a & 7b   -             Ghulam Rasul               167.5
8h1     Guijraniwala-Jlielurn      109           J&P (Overseas)            442.9
8hil   Jlielum-Rawalpinidi         107           J&P (Overseas)            428.9
80(1I   Haro Buidge                -             Mohandasin                 44.0
TOTAL:                  3,280.0
*  Adjusted foI discount il orlei-ed.
94



FHP Final Report
A total ol Rs 3.28(i millionl worltl ol Civil Works was bid and awarded during the Fourth
liiglhway Project. ()1 ihis aiiotlit 48 percenti was awarded to International contractors
(forcign) and 52 pe:rcenit to local coenstrLuction companies. The 52 percent was split amongst
5 marjor Local Conlltactors, whilst the 48 perccnit was sliared by only two foreign firms, with
J&P (Overseas) Limited takinig 40) percelL of the total work bid and Seca (Italy) taking only
8 percclt of the total.
The following Table 12 sliows what pericenitage of the total civil works value was awarded
to which contractor.
TABLE - 12
PEFCENT WORK AWARDED
% Total Work
Con tractor                  Forl eign/Local               A varded
J&P (Overscas) Limitcd         Ihwleignl                    40.0%
Nazir & Com)pany                 Local                      14.5%
Htisnaini Constr'Uction Co.      Local                       8.5%
Seca (Italy)                    Forcign                     8.5%
Saaduillahi Khan & Brotlhers     Local                       7.5%
Glhulam Rasul & Co.              Local                       5.5%
Moliandasin-e-Masud              Local                       1.0%
Various Minor Contractors        Local                      14.5%
95



FHP Final Report   , 
LESSONS LEARNT
Overall thc Projcct is judged a success, however ovcr the eight years of project
implementation, several issues were identified which had severe impacts on the project.
This section is therefore dedicated to identifying those issues and giving
recommendations for avoiding such pitfalls in future projects of this nature. It will be
noted that of the issues which are raised and of the recommendations given, there are
some which are directed at the World Bank project management procedures such
comments where given, are intended to be objective, bearing in mind that, firstly the
NHB at the inception of the project wds not equipped nor suitably staffed to handle
such a project and secondly the various Task Managers assigned by the World Bank,
attempted to counter this situation by "over-involvement" both technically and:
administratively.
ISSUES                         RECOMMENDATIONS
1.    CONTRACT PREPARATION
For the Fourth IBRD Highway Project    It is recommended that more time and effort
without exception, designs and contract    is given to designs, Quantities and contract
documents were poorly prepared, leading to documents. Substantially more money
unnccessaiy VOs and contiact extensions.  should be made available for the preparation
stage of a contract or project. Good
Insufficient engineering input and time was  accurate input at the des:. n and pre-bid
allowed for proper preparalion.        stage will save millions during
construction.
Often bid conditions were not truly
representaLive of actual site condiLions.
Inspite of lhe fact that S.T.V. Lyons &
Associates were hired by the NHB as
General Consultants to oversee and vet the
local designers time and resources were
very limited, precluding Lhoroughness.
96



FHP Final Report
2.    TERI\fS OF REFEREINCE OF
CONSU L TANTS
The major consultants were supervisoly.    If it is thought necessaiy to employ foreign
Initially two finns were engaged to       consultants then it is recommcnded that
supervise tlle construction works, Fi-reman  Terms of Reference are applied which leave
Fox for the Northemn contracts and PRC for no doubt whatsoever as to responsibility
the Southern contr-acts. Botlh firms were    and liability, specially in the realms of
required to associate with local firms who   Project Management. TOR's must define
had participated in the designi of thie vaiious  responsibility and liability.
roadway sections.
Two of the largest FHP contracts were
The foreign consultant inrns were also    successfully completed using reputable
named as the "Engineer". The foreign     local firms. OuLside cxpertise was called in
consultants weIC ovcrstalled, each gIoup    from time to time, but all the day to day
having 5 or 6 Engineers. The Ter ms of    supervision and contract administration was
Reference did not address the requirements, cartied out very successfully by the local
specifically liability and responsibility.  firms.
Actual site supervision and inspection was
canied out by the local associates, wlhilst    Pakistan has a veiy large pool of wcll
the foreign consultants acted more as     qualified Engineers, many of whom have
"Engincers". The endi result of this "two    worked abroad, who are capable Resident
teared" system was that neitlhc the foreigln  Engineers.
consultanits nor thie local associates look
final r-esponsibility. Supervision costs werIe Technically thlese Engineers are very
hiigh, iLnning appr-oximately 8% of total    capable. Tlheir weakness generally lies in
constr-uctioni costs.                    the contract administiation field, especially
in claims analysis and recommnciidations.
3      PREOUALIFICATION  OF
CON'I'RACTOIRS
A prequalification procedure has hccbe
No enough emplhasis can be placed on the   developed by the PMC and is documented(
impoItance of proper and thlough          in the Policies and Procedures Manual.
prequal ification of contractors.
This procedure shoultd be followed without
The FHP and the TSP botlh expeuicnced     deviation, especially the financial checks oni
severe contractual diffficulties due to  the applicants.
insufficient "checks and balances" being
applied at the prequalificaLion stage.
97



FHP Final HeporT
4.    EVALUAT ION OF BIDS
If the prequalification procedure is strictly   hlie bid evaluation procedure as
followed, evaluation of submitted bids  documented in the Policies and Procedures
becomes a reasonably straight forward  Manual should be followed.
procedure.
Award to the LOWEST bidder may not
Bid Evaluation Procedures documented in  necessarily be the lowest EVALUATED
the Policies and Procedures Manual should  bidder. This difference must be
be adhered to and the custom of awarding   recognized.
to the LOWEST bidder must be re-thought
and bids awarded only to the lowest
EVALUATED bidder.
Contract No. 2 was awarded to the lowest
bidder, whilst the Evaluation Committee
recommended the 5th lowest bidder who
was the lowest EVALUATED bidder. The
result was a poor quality, unfinished
contract at a cost in excess of the lowest
EVALUATED bid. A similar experience
has also occuiied on TSP (Okara - Sahiwal
Project).
5 .    MOBIIATION PAYMTENT OF
25 PEIRCE'NT
The original intent of a 25% mobilization    It is recommended that mobilization be
payment was to give local contractors the   restricted to a maximum of 5% of the
opportunity to purchase additional     contract price which should be guarantced
equiipmenit and to have some working   by a Bank Guarantee and ONLY usecd for
capital. Time has proved however that  Plant and Equipments, i.e. setting up of
seldom is the case that contractors use this  Contractor's and Engineer's facilities etc.
large "utp fronit" payment to the conlracts
advantage.                             OR
The 25% mobilization payment has tended   Mobilization advance may be offered up to
to slow the start up of many contracts and   25% with a clear provision for the
payback becomes a burden when coupled   contractor to offer a rebate against the
witlh retention awd tax deductionls on every  advance.
IPC. Notwithistanding "culs" made to IPCs
by Enginieer and Client, the deductions of
mobilization payback, retention and tax
amount to 40% ol thle conlractor's paymcnlt,
thus crippling cash fow.
98



FHP Final Report
6.    CON1I'IAC' SUIPERVISION  ANI)
A 1)1\1 INISTRATION
The contract documents used for all FHP    The FIDIC based contract documents are
contracLs werc FIDIC based documents    going to be used in the future, then the
which allows for the nomination of an   Authoiity must abide by the procedures set
"Engineer" by thc Client.               forth therein. The Authority must of course
ensure that properly qualified and
The concept and powcrs of the Enginecr    competent personnel or fimns are selctcd
were not well understood by the Authority  for the "Engineer" position.
whichi continuously inteivened in conlract
administration and techlinical matters which   The Autlioiity must have either personnel or
tends to eventually place the responsibility   consultants who are capable of reviewing
on the Client and to weaken his position  and developing accurate work schedules
with tegar-ds to claims and a-bitration.  based on actual resources and task
assignment dates and must be ultimately
Throughiout FHP, all contractors submitted  held responsible for sucIh planning.
work schedules whicil bore no iclation to
actual iesoursces (Clause 14). Work
sched4cs were always hopelessly under
estimated inidicatinlg compietion dates which
wcre totally unrealistic. Extensions of time
nearly always follow, with escalation whici
increased costs enlormously.
7.    MEASUREMENT BOOKS
The contract documents are aereement    Partial payment against work done at
preclude any mCntion or necessity of "lhe   intervals during the contract should be
Measurement Book", yct this methiod of    controlled by the Interim Payment
recording measuiement of work done for   Certificate, which documents a complete
payment purposes tak-es precedent over the  running account of the contract and is
contractually recognized Interim Payment   certified by the Engineer.
Certiricate.
IPC's must be processcd in accordance
The Measurement Book, althougih suited to  with contract clauses.
minor public works jobs has no place in
large modern highway construction       The final account, when all work is
contracts.                              completed is subject to the scrutiny and
approval of the Client whose decision shall
Througihout the FHP the use of the      be based on a recommendation of
Measurement Book caused confusion and   correctness by the EnCineer.
unilecessary cleirical work.
8.    VARIATIION ORDERS
All FHP contracts werc suhbjcct to      VOs to a contract should only be considercd
numeious Variation Ordeis (VOs) whichl   if entirely wairanted, whichl should not be
were necessary due to inadequate pie-   the case if lhe contract has becn properly
project prepariation. VOs arc dilficult to  designed and piepared.
control and contract costs Lenid to spiiral
withiout being nloticed.
99






60                                           65'                                         70,                        TAJIKISTAN         75 '
*.s-'~.  CHINA
PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MAJOR CONTRACTS                                                                                                           Gilgit
CCI) MINOR CONTRACTS
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
_        PROVINCIAL ROADS
RAILROADS
0     SELECTED CITIES
35'                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                   135'
RIVERS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                         Ata
-'-   INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES                                                                Kj                                                       o
0     5    10    5    20    25    30 K,ILoelers                                                 5)        oh g         h;;                            9r
*0          5          'I          15          20Ains W6n                                                   /Aoi
o.~~~~D0 ,1  aX                                                                   la-Clwioby
/ .................. 459 > Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hob a                                                             F| , sol           Gajaooobea
/                           / AFGHANISTAN                  (                                                                                              /
SD.   ' /_  g  ;hc +     30
K .X -ki/                        aSibi
\    -...ic ,z/
*\. s''-           BALOCIWS FAN
~~obossyarK   ~~~INDIA
ISLAMIC  REPUBLIC   J                                    <                                               E hr        I                        ________________________!_____________
OF IRAN                                       gC | g/    /    Rchri   /   ~ L.,k.U5KM5N S5Oh    I                                                                                ,..
25-                                                                                                              H..
25+ 2 5-SATFOHFIAN ISTAN  E-                        I
Hyd.,.6.HdroodHao 
ARABIAN                       K. roab,            m                I   o_                                           _     P      S . -
/os.        ;         f  \     "    l ~   I_ ~ _~ _~ ~~ ~ ~ _  bA10_I N D I A
Th.e nsp wo produce d by the Map Des.,in Unm Of Th. W-rld B.Ank      Co;;i;o           | Koroahi-   erobod t                                   0 A
Th. boundaries oolors d-nomrnadi.ns and ti nyolder inlormo, on shown  K irscl-HIydrabad                              _ _   _                                           0,- _ 
on thi. mop do sa -rply, on oh. pars of rhe World Rank G-rup, any                        2o o-5
-n       jdgmens an she lgal so0u0 of any le. tlryoor ay r andorsansn or                            u
77  accepIonon of sock boundarieseIds-      -~-                                                                                                     Axl XlS>                   -zv 
D60                                               65                                                  70                                   55.                 75    so
N                 I                                                                                                                              _______               _____I_I___









IMAGING
Report No.:         16504
Type:     ICR



