Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6513-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 14, 1987
Transportation Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offieial duties. Its eontents may not otherwise 'e disclosed without World Bank authodzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit            Pakistani Rupee (Rs)
Rs 17             =      US$1.00
Rs 1              =      US$0.06
(as of September 1986)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                           US System
1 meter (m)                      3.281 feet
1 kilometer (km)                 0.621 mile
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADP     =    Annual Development Program
CAA     =    Civil Aviation Authority
C&W          (Provincial) Communications and Works Department
GOP     =    Government of Pakistan
JICA    =    Japanese International Cooperation Agency
KPT     =    Karachi Port Trust
LCB     -    Local Competitive Bidding
MOC     =    Ministry of Communications
MOP          Ministry of Planning
NH           National Highways
NHB          National Highways Board (Ministry of Communications)
NLC     =    National Logistics Cell
NTRC         National Transport Research Centre
PMC          Project Management Cell
PMS     =    Pavement Management System
PQA     =    Port Qasim Authority
PR      =    Pakistan Railways
THP     =    Third Highway Project (Credit 974-PAK)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table f Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .****......********....***.*** .....                  i
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ..o........oooo.o..eoe.oee*..    ....e... .         1
A.  Recent Performance and Issues            ...........................  1
Railways ..........,      ...................................     2
Road Transport         2.......................................   2
Ports  ..  0e*eO* 0@* @44.*.*. **** ****** *****........O....     3
~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~4
B.  Transport Planning  .............................,                  4
C.  Public Investment in the Transport Sector          ..............   5
D.  Bank Involvement in the Sector           .........................  6
II.  THE ROADS SUBSECTOR .............         ..........................     8
A.  The Existing Network and Its Development ...0...........            8
B.  Bank Strategy for the Roads Subsector         ..................   10
C. A Program for Improving Rohabilitation and Maintenance
of the National Highways          .....................         11
Highway Management ............ ......... .. ...   .......*.       11
Resource Mobilization         ..................................   12
Road Construction Industry          .............................  14
Road Safety .*.***..............  .... ..e                         14
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Pakistan in
September/October 1986. Mission members were C. Jeremy Lane (Mission
leader), John Tillman, and A.H. Qureshi (World Bank); and Richard Blankfeld
(Consultant). The bulk of the typing was done by Margaret Carter.
This documeat has a restricted dist ibution and may be used by recipienls only in the porformunce
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclowed without World Bank authoization.
This~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~_ doumn .a etitddsrbto ndmyb sdb eiinsol



-ii-
III.  THE PROJECT ..........        .....................................      16
A.  Project Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement ......             16
B.  The Project's Objectives ...............................             16
Co  Description ................................                         17
Highway Rehabilitation ......e.......... ........ .........       17
Improvements to Highway Maintenance            ...................  18
Provincial Maintenance Study...........................           18
Studies for Future Road Transport Projects.............           18
Construction Industry......         . .....................       19
Institutional Improvements in
Baluchistan C&W Department...........................           19
Road ............................................... ...          20
Technical Assistance and Training           .....................  21
Engineering ........  .           .                               21
Cost Estimates        ........................................    22
Financing Plan ...    ......................... ............      23
Land Acquisition                  ..........                      24
Procurement ....    ....................... ..............        25
Project Execution and Supervision           .....................  26
Disbursements# Accounts and Audits .................,..           27
Environmental Impact         .......................... ....      28
Project ......................................... ......          28
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ....................                                 29
A.  Benefits and Beneficiaries........          ......................   29
B.  Economic Evaluation .........         ...........................    29
C.  Risk Analysis ........................* .................            32
V.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ........................ ...               32
ANNEXES
Annex A - Road Maintenance Action Plan             ...........................  35
Annex B -Road Safety Component              ..................................  37
Annex C - Highway Rehabilitation             .................................  45
Annex D - Traffic Engineering             ....................................  48
Annex E - Selected Documents Available in the Project File .......             49
Annex F - Draft Outline Terms of Reference for Provincial
Maintenance Study ...... .....        ..........................   50



-iii-
TABLES
Table 1.1    -  Domestic Inter-District Freight and Passenger
Traffic 1971/72-1984/85 ..........................        52
Table 2.1    -  Road Network 1947-1983         ...........................  53
Table 2.2    -  NationaliHighway Annual Development Program
and Maintenance Expenditures 1978/79-i989/90 ...        54
Table 2.3    -  Allocation of Maintenance Expenditures on
National Highways 1978/79-1986/87 ..............        55
Table 2.4    -  Perspective Development Plan for National
Highways 1936-2000 ................................     56
Table 3.1(a) -  Detailed Cost Tables - Highway and
Bridge Construction ........     ................ *..   57
Table 3.1(b) -  Detailed Cost Tables - Assistance to Baluchistan .         58
Table 3.1(c) -  Detailed Cost Tables - Project Components
by Year                                                 59
Table 3.2    -  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ..............         60
Table 4.1    -  Average Annual Daily Traffic and Growth Rates
by Highway Segment and Type of Traffic,
1985, 1985-90 and 1990-2000 ........o............       61
Table 4.2    -  Economic Analysis of Highway Section 5 ..... ......        62
Table 4.3    -  Economic Rates of Return         .........................  63
Map No. IBRD 19727



PAXISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:         US$152.0 million
Terms:          Twenty years, includiug five years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate
Project
Descriptions    The project comprises:
(a) Rehabilitation of about 650 km of the N-5 National
Highway including construction of associated bridges and
bypasses around five towns.
(b) Improvements to the planning, management and execution
of maintenance and traffic engineering on National
Highways.
(c) Improvement of road safety.
(d) Technical assistance and equipment to Baluchistan
Communications and Works Depaitment.
(e) Studies of management and execution of maintenance in
the provinces.
Improvements on N-5 will reduce vehicle operating costs, and
this component will have an ERR of 271. The maintenance
program will improve the use of funds and delay the need for
further investments on national highways. Beneficiaries will
include transporters and bus operators, but because of the
arterial nature of N-5 benefits should eventually spread to
three quarters of the country.
The major risk is whether adequate funding will be provided
for the expanded maintenance program and the construction
contracts. There is also the risk that NHB may not be fully
competent to manage a much larger project, but specialist
assistance is included to obviate this risk;



-2-
Estimated Cost: a/                            Local   Foreign        Total
Item                          --------US$ Million--------
lHighway & Bridge Construction            103.0     106.9        209.9
B.  Maintenance Improvement Program             5.1       5.0         10.1
C.  Assistance to Baluchistan                   0.2       1.5          1.7
D.  Road Safety Program                         2.4        1.1         3.5
Project Base Costs              110.7      114.5       225.2
Physical Contingencies                     10.9      11.3         22.3
Price Contingencies                        27.8       9.5         37.2
Total Project Costs             149.4      135.3       284.7
Financing Plan:                               Local     Foreign      Total
--------…US$ Million-…--
IBRD                                           16.7      135.3        152.0
GOP                                           132.7        0.0        132.7
Total:         149.4       135.3        284.7
Estimated Disbursements:
FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95
- ------------------s$ Million-    ------…--
Annual      10.6    22.8    30.4    30.4    25.9    18.2    10.7        3.0
Cumulative  10.6    33.4    63.8    94.2   120.1   138.3   149.0   152.0
Economic Rate of Return:  About 271
Appraisal Report:          No. 6513-PAK, April 14, 1987
Mp: No. IBRD 19727
a/ Includes taxes and duties of US$32.0 million.



PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Recent Performance and Issues
1.01      Pakistan's transport system and traffic densities reflect the
concentration of population and economic activity in the Karachi
metropolitan area in Southern Pakistan, and in the Punjab Province, whose
capital, Lahore, is 1,200 km to che north* Virtually all international
trade flows through the two Karachi area ports, of which half moves to or
from the Punjab. Traffic movements are therefore concentrated on a few
major long distance routes, the principal artery being the
Karachi-Lahore-Islamabad-Peshawar corridor. The deregulation of trucking
in 1960 and of buses in 1970 and the deterioration of railway services led
to rapid growth in road transport. Road transport has now replaced rail
as the dominant transport mode and accounts for 801 of non-urban passenger
traffic and 70 percent of freight traffic (Table 1.1). The long distances
have been favorable to the growth of air transport, which now has an
important share of the passenger traffic between Karachi, Lahore and
Islamabad. Inland water transport has not been developed since most
rivers are seasonal or are blocked by irrigation barrages.
1*02      The transport infrastructure comprises about 54,000 km of paved
road; 69,000 km of unpaved road; 8,800 route-kilometers of railway; 31
airports with scheduled service, four of which serve international traf-
fic; two major seaports and a 900 km pipeline for moving imported
petroleum supplies upcountry. Value added in the transport sector (rail,
road, air and ports) is about 7 percent of CDP.
1.03      A synopsis of performance, trends and issues regarding
Pakistan's transport sector is presented below. The discussions of the
individual subsectors, railways, road transport, ports and aviation are
based on preliminary findings of a transport sector review mission in
September/October 1986 for preparation of the forthcoming Transport Sector
Report. A discussion of the Bank's strategy for Pakistan's roads subsec-
tor, and the links between this project and the Bank's strategic objec-
tives is presented in paras 2.08 and 2.09. 1/
1/ See also Annex E, Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project
File.



-2-
Railways
1.04      Pakistan Railway's (PR) experience has been typical oZ many
railways which have faced growing competition from road transport.
Shorter distance traffic has been lost and PR has been slow to develop
competitive services. Rail traffic is now concentrated on a few routes
that have long distance freight and passenger movements. Half the railway
system carries about 95 percent of total rail traffic, and freight traffic
is mainly public sector commodities such as foodgrains, petroleum
products, cement and fertilizers. Growing financial deficits have led to
inadequate renewal of assets and deteriorating quality of services.
1.05      A strategy for railway recovery will require major management
reforms and changes in railway services and infrastructure. The railway
has been run as a government department but institutional autonomy and a
commercially-oriented management is now needed. Much of the potential
growth in freight traffic will be in containerized general cargo and to
compete with road transport, the railway must greatly increase its opera-
tional efficiency and reliability. These matters have been analyzed and
are being reviewed with the Government.
Road Transport
1.06      Various indicators confirm that the 13 percent annual growth in
the motor vehicle fleet (excluding motorcycles) from about 120,000 units
in 1971/72 to 530,000 in 1983/84 has been reflected in a concomitant
growth of traffic. For example, consumption of gasoline and diesel fuel
used in the road transport sector grew by 11 percent annually between
1971/72 and 1983/84. The estimated nationwide mix of motorized traffic
outside urban areas consists of 30 percent cars an* other light vehicles,
20 percent buses, and 50 percent trucks. In some rural areas animal-drawn
traffic remains important.
1.07      Since deregulation, truckers have had complete freedom of entry
into the industry, pricing and vehicle use. In the last five years, the
truck fleet has been evolving towards larger trucks. Whereas 100 hp
Bedford trucks used to be the norm in Pakistan, now 200 hp Japanese
trucks, most of which are assembled in Pakistan, account for about 30
percent of new truck sales. These 200 hp trucks are modified to carry
heavier than designed loads of up to 30-40 tons (6 to 8 tons per axle)
when converted as semi-trailers. The evolution of these larger, more
powerful trucks provides support to the realization of the proposed
project benefits of lower transport costs. However, many Bedford trucks
with strengthened chassis are carrying loads above the current 8 ton
limit, on two axles only. A study of vehicle axle loads conducted by
National Transport Research Centre (NTMC) under the Third Highway
Project (THP) documented that considerable over-loading of trucks (more



-3-
than 8.0 tons per axle) was prevalent in Pakistan. Government has recog-
nised the impracticability of enforcing such a limit and is now preparing
an ordinance which will raise the legal axle load limit to 13.5 tons, and
plans a series of five fixed weighing stations to try to eliminate exces-
sively overloaded vehicles.
1.08      Under emergency conditions in 1978, GOP established its own
army-based trucking operation, the National Logistics Cell (NLC)p to
supplement the railway and private trucking fleet in the movement of
essential public sector cargoes, such as wheat and fertilizer imports.
Until 1985, NLC accounted for 3-4 percent of freight ton-kms moved by
road, but in that year PR was able to carry much of the wheat imported to
offset the effects of the poor harvestb thus diminishing NLC's importance.
1.09      Private buses account for 90 percent of total passenger
kilometers on intercity bus routes with provincial Government bus com-
panies accounting for the rest. Regulation bf private bus operations is
primarily through the setting of maximum bus fares. But maximum bus fares
in the Sind Province have been unchanged for over three years and invest-
ment has shifted from 50-seater ordinary buses to smaller vehicles such as
passenger-carrying pickups and air-conditioned mini-buses. The latter
char&e fares double those of ordinary buses. Government bus services have
incurred substantial financial losses and services are estimated to cost
about twice those of private buses. The rationale for maintaining govern-
ment services is being examined and discussed with the Government.
Ports
1.10      Pakistan's two major ports are Karachi Port, administered by
the Karachi Port Trust (KPT), with 28 general cargo berths and 4 oil
berths; and the nearby Port Qasim, operated by the Port Qasim
Authority (PQA), with 7 general cargo berths and an iron ore and coal
facility serving a steel mill. Since 1980, port congestion, formerly a
costly bottleneck in Pakistan's transport system, has been removed.
Moreover, the opening of PQA, the slower than predicted growth in traffic
and rapidly growing containerization have resulted in some excess port
capacity at the present time. Indeed, KPT could achieve even greater
throughput with improved cargo handling and transit facilities.
1.11      Modernization of cargo-handling services and the facilitation of
intermodal movements through the ports and associated investments are key
issues for GOP. These, as well as tariff questions, are being discussed
with the Government.



-4-
Aviation
1.12      Air transport has become an important part of Pakistan's
transport sector during the past 30 years. International passenger traf-
fic to and from Pakistan also grew rapidly during the post-1973 oil boom
but much of this was associated with the increased number of Pakistanis
working in the Middle East, and the future growth of this component of air
traffic is likely to be much slower. The government-owned Pakistan
International Airlines has developed an extensive network of domestic and
international services, but its domestic services are being subsidized
from the profits of the international services. GOP's policy of increas-
ing domestic services might prove detrimental to the airline's financial
standing in the longer term.  Re;ponsibility for operating and developing
civil aviation infrastructure was transferred in 1982 to the Civil
Aviation Authority (CAA), which was given substantial administrative and
financial autonomy and a mandate to plan future airport development.
Although the facilities at Pakistan's three major airports of Karachi,
Lahore and Islamabad are currently quite satisfactory, CAA, anticipating
the rapid growth in traffic to continue, projected the existing facilities
to be inadequate within a few years. A Rs 6 billion development program
has been prepared for airport facilities and improved navigation and
safety equipment. With the much slower growth in traffic, a
re-examination of needs, priorities and timing of proposed development
plans is needed. Attention also needs to be given to the improvement of
cargo-handling facilities and customs procedures if Pakistan's policy of
promoting high value non-traditional exports is to succeed.
B. Transport Plarning
1.13      Responsibility for transport planning and coordination is shared
between six Federal ministries. Transport planning at the provincial and
district levels mainly involves road infrastructure and passenger
transport. The general responsibilities of each of the six Federal minis-
tries are:



-5-
Ministry of Planning (MOP)           Five-year development pians, annual
development program, technical and
economic appraisal of major
development projects.
Ministry of Communications (MOC)    National highways, shipping and
ports, and to a limited extent, road
transport.
Ministry of Railways                 Railway operations.
Ministry of Defence                  Civil aviation and the NLC.
Ministry of Petroleum and            Pipelines.
Natural Resources
Ministry of Local Government         Rural road projects.
and Rural Development
1.14      Following the recommendations of a 1971 Bank-assisted Transport
Coordination Study, NTRC was established in 1974 under the MOP. NTRC has
undertaken a range of research activities mainly in the areas of road
infrastructure and road transport. NTRC was assisted by the Japanese
International Cooperation Agency (JICA) in the execution of a 1983
National Transport Plan Study.
C. Public Investment in the Transport Sector
1.15      Pakistan's Sixth Five-Year Plan (1983-88) called for an increase
in transport sector development outlays from Rs 37.7 billion in the Fifth
Plan (1978-83) to Rs 53.0 billion (see table below). The transport sec-
torts share of the total public sector development expenditures was
planned to decrease from 21 percent (Fifth Plan) to 18 percent (Sixth
Plan), reflecting increased priorities for investments in energy and
social sectors.



-6-
Composition of Public Sector Transport Development Outlays
(Rupees billion)
Second and Third    Non-Plan      Fifth      Sixth
Plan Periods       Period       Plan       Plan
1960/70         1970-78      1978-83    1983-88
Actual          Actual       Actual    Budget
Total Financial Outlays               4.1            15.7       37.7        53.0
(as a proportion of
total public sector                  X               Z          X          X
development expenditures)            15              18         21          is
Distribution by Subsector              X               Z           X           X
Pakistan Railways                      64              21          17          25
Roads                                  29              46          27          46 /a
Ports                                   -              13          16           6
Civil Aviation                          5              18          20          13
Other /b                                2               2          20          12
Total                                 100             100         100         100
/a  Including proposed private financing of road construction.
71  "Other" includes road transport, the Pakistan National Shipping Corporation
and, from 1978, local bodies' expenditures.
Source:  Sixth Five-Year Plan (1983-88).
1.16      Nearly four-fifths of the Sixth Plan allocation to the National
Highways was designated for construction of a second 'arriageway for
National Highway N-5 from Karachi to Peshawar, although the private sector
had been expected to finance a large part of this, with private capital
being reimbursed from tolls. The plan for the ports proposed the expan-
sion of existing facilities at Karachi Port and Port Qasim, including the
construction at Karachi Port of a container terminal and POL berth.
Approximately two-thirds of proposed expenditures for the railway subsec-
tor were for the replacement of existing assets.
1.17      The actual Sixth Plan implementation level has been much lower
than planned. During 1983/84-1985/86, only 452 of the plan allocation for



-7-
Federally-related activities had been spent. 1/ The proposed expansion of
KPT was postponed, the privately-financed second carriageway proposal has
been dropped and the emphasis of the National Highway program was focussed
on rehabilitation. The investment plan for the National Highway System is
discussed in para 2.19 and presented in Tables 2.2-2.4.
D. Bank Involvement In The Sector
1.18      The Bank has assisted a series of railway, highway and port
projects in Pakistan. There have been eight railway projects since 1952
involving loans and credits of US$232 million equivalent. In recent
years, implementation of railway projects has been slow due to Government
?rocedural delays in approval of project elements and the lack of commit-
ment to the project by the railway management, which has experienced
continuous turnovers of senior staff. The latest railway project
(Credit 1278-PAK) was closed on schedule on December 31, 1985 but only
SDR 23.7 million was disbursed out of a total Bank commitment of SDR 44.3
million. The project did not succeed in promoting the institutional
management and physical restructuring needed for the railway to be able
successfully to compete against road transport.
1.19      The three Bank Group-assisted highway projects in Pakista-a since
1964, provided US$102 million equivalent in loans and credits. The latest
of these, the Third Highway Project (THP, Credit 974-PAK, US$50 million)
approved in 1980, followed extensive feasibility studies and involved
reconstruction of 280 km of major national and provincial highway links.
The project introduced modern technical methods of construction to local
contractors. Problems initially encountered involving poor contract or
work management and lack of familiarity with modern technology and new
materials were successfully resolved, and the experienced gained has
helped to estabiish a viable road contracting industry which will be
further nurtured and developed in the context of the proposed Fourth
Highway Project.  Building on the experience gained in THP, NHB will be
able to manage the larger proposed project with technical assistance.
1.20      Since 1955, the Bank Group has provided US$65 million equivalent
for four port projects, which assisted in the reconstruction and expansion
of Karachi Port, and helped to reorganize KPT's management and tariff
structure. The Third and Fourth Karachi Port projects were successful in
improving port productivity, despite lengthy delays in project implementa-
tion. The Bank declined to assist in the construction of Port Qasim on
1/ In addition to the Federal Government, public sector transport outlays
include those of provinces, districts and municipalities. In the
Sixth Plan, the Federally-related expenditures accounted for 70 per-
cent of total public transport sector outlays.



-8-
the grounds that the facility was unnecessary in light of Karachi Port's
development potential for the forseeable future and offered no apparent
physical or locational advantages.
1.21      With the closing of the Third Highway Project on June 30, 1986,
there are no on-going Bank projects in the transport sector in Pakistan,
except for the urban transport cumponent (US$28 million) of the Karachi
Special Development Project (Credit 1652-PAK). Certain transport studies
(petroleum products retail pricing, and truck import and assembly policies
needed for future development of the trucking industry) are to be financed
under the Third Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1755-PAK, US$7 mil-
lion). In addition to assisting with expansion of transport infrastruc-
ture and assets, past projects have also been concerned with improving
productivity and the efficiency of sector management. Project dialogue
was, however, mainly with the concerned implementing agency and the
dialogue with the Ministries of Planning and Finance was insufficient to
affect the needed policy and institutional reforms.  However, a more
comprehensive sector dialogue was begun in 1983 with these ministries and
a possible transport sector loan is under discussion with GOP which could
lead to a further lending operation in FY89.
II. THE ROADS SUBSECTOR
A. The Existing Network and Its Development
2.01      Pakistan's network of paved national and provincial highways
increased from about 8,000 km in 1947 to nearly 30,000 km in 1983
(Table 2.1). Together with 16,000 km of unpaved highways, there are also
48,500 km of district roads in rural areas and over 10,500 km of municipal
roads in urban areas, as well as special roads built in strategic parts of
the country. The entire road network provides extensive coverage of
Pakistan, but its quality is deficient and requires much improvement.
Most of the paved road system is narrow, and only 1,500 km of the national
and provincial highways are two full lanes or wider. The road network by
type of road is shown below.



-9-
Total Network (1983)             Unpaved           Paved           Total
----------------kilometers-
National                             -             4,893           4,893 /a
Provincial                        15,682          24,598          40,280 7i
Districts                         42,848           5,678          48,526
Municipalities                     1,417           9,135.         10,552
(,thers                            9,142            9,427         18,569
TOTAL                             69,089          53,731         122,820
a/ As of 1985.
b/  The Indus Highway (1,397 km) is to be retlassified from a provincial to a
national highway in 1987.
Source: National Highway Board.
2.02      The four major factors accounting for the poor and deteriorating
quality of Pakistan's roads are:    I
(a) the rapid growth in traffic during the past 15 years, and the high
proportion of heavily-laden trucks in the traffic flow;
(b)  expenditures in road maintenance, and reconstruction/rehabilitation,
far below standards required by traffic growth;
(e)  inadequate planning and management of highway development; and
(d)' inappropriate or obsolete road construction techniques.
2.03      GOP began to address the needs of highway upgrading and main-
tenance in 1978, when certain major inter-provincial routes were desig-
nated as National Highways (NH) and responsibility for them was trans-
ferred from the provincial governments to GOP. The National Highway
Board (NHB), under the Ministry of Communications, was established in 1979
to be responsible for these roads and began an extensive program of
rebuilding N-5, Pakistan's principal road, which links Karachi, Labore,
Rawalpindi and Peshawar (1,760 km).  As of mid-1986, 580 km had been
reconstructed to modern specifications.
2.04      NHB has usually awarded contracts for large reconstruction works
directly to contractors, but for smaller works uses the provincial Com-
munications and Works Departments (C&Ws) as agents. NHB has been able to



-10-
provide both a sufficient volume and continuity of work and technical
assistance so that about five Pakistani contracting firms are now com-
petent to reconstruct or overlay, in aggregate, between 15-25 km of high-
way per month using modern techniques. NHB's capital expenditures are
financed from the Federal Government's Annual Development Program (ADP)
and include periodic overlays and reconstruction. Total ADP expenditures
for National Highways amounted to Rs 693 million in 1985/86 (Table 2.2).
2.05      NHB has also used the Provincial C&Ws as agents for maintaining
those sections of the National Highways within each province bet these
bodies, with their labor-intensive methodts, low technical standards and
poor quality control measures, do not have the skills or capacity to
provide the standard of maintrnance now needed. The maintenance budget is
based on a yardstick system (a standard amount per kilometer based on
width and terrain), but not related to the physical condition of a par-
ticular road section or the traffic carried. Moreoverp 40 percent ef
maintenance funds are extracted "up front" by the C&Ws for payment of
"establishment cbaiges".  The yardstick system also does not sufficiently
distinguish between routine and periodic maintenance. Although 30 percent
of NHB's maintenance budget is supposed to be used for resurfacing, what
little is done comes out of its ADP budget. To overcome these problems,
NHB employed a private contractor for the routine maintenance of the
Liphore-Multan section (316 km) of N-S in 1985/86 and supervised the work
with its own staff
2.06      Altiough.modern methods for maintenance and reconstruction are
being introduced for natiohal highways, the provincial highways continue
to be subject to traditional methods and (lack of) standards. Many of
these roads carry substantial traffic. Capital expenditures for provin-
cial road programs were Rs 1,374 million in 1984/85 and maintenance expen-
ditures Rs 815 million.
2.07      Many rural roads are earth tracks that have been widened but are
not of a technical standard that permits cost-effective maintenance. The
district councils have inadequate finance, technical and managerial
capacity to undertake an adequate program of road construction and main-
tenance. Assistance is now being received from ADB and USAID for upgrading
rural roads. Expenditures on district roads amounted to about
Rs 220 million in 1984/85 of which half came from the Federal Budget. In
addition, expenditures on municipal roads were about Rs 800 million in
1984/85.
B. Bank Strategy for the Roads Subsector
2.08      The Bank's objective in the roads subsector in Pakistan is to
assist in the development of an efficient road system to support the
growth of a commercially-oriented and open economy. Specific objectives
are to:



-ll-
(a) promote better planning and operation of the National Highway
network and investments;
(b) upgrade the quality of the road pavements and capacity;
(c) improve the planning, management, and technical quality of
highway ma.ntenance; and
(d) improve mobilization of re'sources for funding highway main-
tenance.
2.09      The proposed project, while limited to the National Highway
System, directly addresses and meets these objectives. A key component of
the project is the establishment of'a systematic maintenance execution an-d
monitoring program using a contract maintenance system and modern techni-
cal methods and materials. The continued development of NHB as an effec-
tive institution for managing the National Highways is a cornerstone of
the Bank's strategy. As NHB increasingly demonstrates its ability, it can
also serve as a model for reforming the provincial C&Ws. Major reforms in
the C&Ws will be needed for the planning, maintenance and reconstruction
of the 40,000 km of provincial roads. A detailed highway improvemezt and
maintenance study for provincial roads including the institutional and
technical reforms is needed and will be undertaken as part of the project
(para 3.09). The project will also follow-up on the technical assistance
and equipment provided under the THP to the Province of Baluchistan, which
requires immediate assistance to maintain its road network (para 3.12).
2.10      Other measures to expand the progress made in the development
and maintenance of the National Highway System to the provincial road
network are being addressed in the transport sector dialogue with GOP.
Recommendations are presented for pilot scale projects in tne provinces
modeled on techniques successfully used on National Highways.
C. A Program for Improving Rehabilitation and
Maintenance of the National Highways
2.11      Upgrading Pakistan's National Highway system requires:
(a)  improving highway management and implementation;
(b)  mobilization of resources for the funding of appropriate
programs for rehabilitation and maintenance;
(c)  improving the privately-owped road construction industry; and
(d)  improving road safety and driver education.



-12-
GOP is giving priority to the national highways for several reasons.
These inter-provincial highways, especially the N-5 Highway, play an
important role in meeting Pakistan's basic transport needs and unless
their current deterioration is reversed, they will become a major con-
straint on economic growth. NHB has emerged as an experienced and capable
agency and focussing the limited financial, technical and foreign assis-
tance resources available on the National Highways will produce important
results in the medium term.
Highway Management
2.12      Eased on the findings of the National Highway Maintenance Study
conducted under the THP, NHB plans to take direct responsibility for
maintenance of the National Highways. An Action Plan (para 3.06 and
Annex A) has been prepared for implementation as an important part of the
proposed project. NHB will use private contractors under a two-tier
contract system to execute the work. The first tier would consist of
local contractors undertaking routine maintenance within their own areas.
Second-tier contracts for periodic maintenance would be let to larger
firms qualified and equipped for asphaltic concrete work. NHB's approach
to highway reconstruction through the development of a group of contrac-
tors versed in modern road construction techniques has generally proved
successful.
2.13      NHB will need to introduce modern maintenance planning and
execution techniques and a well-trained maintenance management organiza-
tion will be required within NHB to establish routine and periodic main-
tenance needs through actual field measurement (replacing yardstick
ludgetting). In addition, this organization will set technical standards
for maintenance operation3 and will supervise the work of contractors.
The proposed project will assist in the establishment and training of such
an organization; a training plan has been established (Annex A, Table 1)
which will include contractors' staff.
2.14      Traffic engineering is important to NHB's operation of the
highway network as well as its role in highway safety. NHB at present has
only limited capacity in this area and the proposed project will assist
NHB to set up a traffic engineering section (see para 3.C8 and Annex D).
Resource Mobilization
2.15      Initial estimates of expenditures required for routine main-
tenance of the National Highway network are Rs 84 million per year. 1/
Periodic maintenance would require an additional Rs 314 million giving a
1/ National Maintenance Study, Kampsax International A/S, November 1986.



-13-
total recurrent maintenance budget requirement of about Rs 400 million
as compared with an actual recurrent budget of Rs 150 million for 1986/87
(Table 2.2). The Action Plan for improving the maintenance of the
national highways is described in Annex A. GOP is still reviewing the
recommendations of the Kampsax report but is in general agreement with the
need to increase the level of funds for periodic and routine maintenance.
Indeed, funds have been increased by 20-25 percent annually over the last
five years and the budget request for 1987/88 is for Rs 200 million, which
represents a 33 percent increase over the current year'a allocation.
During negotiations GOP undertook to make available the necessary funds
for  the periodic and routine maintenance of the National Highway System
over the five-year period 1987/88 to 1991/92.  GOP also agreed to furnish
to the Bank no later than December 31, 1987 indicative per annum planning
figures for the five-year period.
2.16      Revenues collected from road users have fluctuated in recent
years because of changes in the effective tax rate on petroleum products.
During 1979-82, diesel fuel was subsidized but subsequently the government
policy of holding retail prices relatively firm as international prices
fell has resulted in a major increase in revenues from diesel and
gasoline. At an annual rate, these revenues increased by Rs 4 billion
from Rs 3 billion in 1985 to Rs 7 billion in 1986 and total road user
revenues increased from Rs 10 billion to Rs 14 billion. This compares
with the Rs 4 billion spent on national, provincial, municipal and rural
roads in 1984/85 and the approximately Rs 7-8 billion that needs to be
spent annually on Pakistan's roads.
2.17      Although the current level of road user charges is appropriate,
measures are needed to ensure that recent gains are not eroded if interna-
tional oil prices again rise. In addition to adjusting the domestic
retail prices of petroleum products, other user charges could be adjusted
so that the overall revenues were not so dependent on petroleum taxes; for
example, the 15 percent duty on trucks imported under the expatriate
remittance scheme is low, as is the annual licence fee on trucks. Also,
as the truck fleet becomes less uniform, annual licence fees will need to
differentiate between trucks capable of carrying 10 tons and those carry-
ing 20-30 tons, but this needs to be done in a way that encourages trucks
to add additional axles so as to reduce highway damage. In addition,
there is scope for selectively introducing tolls on improved sections of
the national highways. Preliminary plans prepared by NHB indicate that if
tolls were imposed on the improved sections of the N-S National Highway at
levels corresponding to one-third of generated vehicle operating cost
savings, they would yield an estimated Rs 260 million annually by 1990/91,
enough to cover the additional maintenance for the entire national highway
svqtem. Currently tolls are collected only on one 100 km section of the
National Highways and on certain bridges, but the revenues are collected
and spent by the provincial governments.



2.18      GOP has comenced a program of action to ensure that adequate
levels of resources continue to be mobilized from road users in the
future. Include4 in the program are: (i) laws currently being drafted
to enable tolls to.be collected on all appropriate sections of the
National Highways and for these revenues to be utilized for the main-
tenance of the National Highways, and (ii) discussions with the provincial
governments regarding a review and rationalization of registration ahd
licence fees on motor vehicles. During negotiations, GOP agreed to review
and modify, as appropriate its system of collecting road user charges in
accordance with a timetable mutually acceptable to GOP and the Bank.
2.19      During the next five-year planning period (1988/89-1992/93),
improvement to the National Highway system is expected to remain a
national priority. According to NUB studies, upgrading the quality of
Pakistan's national highway system will require increasing the annual
development budget for national highways from Rs 1,100 billion in 1986/87
to about Rs 1,900 billion annually for 1987/88 and to Rs 2,200 billion for
1988/89 and 1989/90 (Table 2.2). Together with the maintenance proposals,
it represents a satisfactory balance between construction, rehabilitation
and maintenance. Table 2.4 shows a preliminary perspective investment
plan for National Highways for the period 1986-2000. Sixty-five percent
of the plan is for the N-5 (including the proposed project) and another 14
percent will be devoted to upgrading a series of existing provincial roads
to form the N-55 along the west bank of the Indus. Allowing for economic
and political priorities, the perspective plan would appear satisfactory.
GOP is currently preparing its Seventh Five-Year Plan (1988/89-1992/93).
During negotiations, GOP agreed to: (i) give the Bank timely oppor-
tunities to consult on its investment plan for the National Highway system
when available; and (ii) give due consideration to any comments and sug-
gestions made by the Bank in the course of such consultations.
2.20      The proposed project will assist in reconstruction of about 650
kms of the N-5 National Highway, which are of the highest priority in
terms of traffic and condition. Despite GOP's commitment to this project,
all projects in Pakistan are subject to the ever-present risk that GOP may
be unable to release its share of the project cost in a timely manner.
Road Construction Industry
2.21      Pakistan's long-ternm highway program relies on developing a
sufficient number of Pakistani contractors to undertake the various
aspects of highway work. The improvements to maintenance planning and
execution, together with the expanded program of reconstruction, demon-
strate the Government's commitment to a long-term highway program and have
had a significant effect in encouraging contractors to invest in the
skills and equipment needed. In addition, in prequalifying contractors
for the proposed project, NHB has encouraged the formation of for-
eign/local joint ventures or the engagement of management teams from



-15-
international contractors, so as to'stimulate the transfer of technical
and managerial skills. The project will help the industry by training
labor and middle managers. A training center for plant and equipment
operators, the Construction and Machinery Training Center, has recently
been opened with Japanese assistance. The Action Plan (para 3.06, and
Annex A) includes a training program for contractors' personnel, and among
the duties of the three project management specialists will be the intro-
duction, with associated trainingt of computer-based methods of contract
management. The industry will thus benefit from a larger volume of work
which is geographically well distributed and continuous. The training in
technical and contractual matters will reach all levels of employee in
firms, large and small.
Road Safety
2.22      Traffic safety on Pakistan's highways is poor and deteriorating.
In 1984, 11,923 accidents were reported involving 4,721 deaths and 12,307
personal injuries, but there is substantial under-reporting. Outdated
vehicles and narrow, congested highways presently restrict vehicle speeds
but as both are modernized, there is scope for many more accidents and
early action to improve road safety is required. Few drivers in Pakistan
have received any formal training and much of the current poor driving is
due to ignorance. Reflecting the Government's growing concern is the new
Road Safety Ordinance, currently before the National Assembly, and the
Government plans to implement improved road safety measures covering
traffic engineering (para 2.14), driver education and the patrolling of
highways.
2.23      Significant improvement in road safety may be obtainable by
improving the effectiveness of police on the national highways. In the
past, police officers did not regard traffic work as a speciality.
Officers are rotated frequently in and out of the traffic police division
and never receive any training or develop any professionalism in this
specialist work. The establishment of a pilot-scale highway patrol would
give an opportunity to create a trained professional corps of permanent
traffic police with high public visibility and accountability, to help the
travelling public (see Annex B). The project would also assist the expan-
sion of MOC's existing driver instructor training school to provide a pool
of instructors to raise standards in driving schools throughout the
country (see Annex B).



-16-
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.01      The Bank's involvement in upgrading the N-5 Highway began in
1964 with a major upgrading and realignment of the section between Karachi
and Hyderabad. Since its establishment in 1979, NHB has carried out
studies on the further development and upgrading of the National Highway
network. In 1984, NHB, in collaboration with Bank staff, identified
several highway links that would require rehabilitation during the next
five years, and several areas of highway management needing improvement,
namely procedures for planning and execution of maintenance and the struc-
ture of road user charges. Based on discussion between NHB and the Bank,
the elements of the proposed Fourth Highway Project were developed and the
first preparation mission visited Pakistan in November 1984. Feasibility
studies were begun in March 1985 and other components of the project were
identified during the continuing dialogue. The THP was instrumental in
the development of Pakistani contractors capable of executing works to
modern specifications. The proposed project would continue this by intro-
ducing maintenance by contract under a two-tier system: fostering the
emergence and training of small local contractors for routine maintenance
and medium-sized firms for periodic maintenance.
B.  The Project's Objectives
3.02    The principal objectives of the proposed project are:
(a)  to lower transport costs on the Karachi-Peshawar N-5 Highway by
road rehabilitation;
(b)  to develop the capacity of NHB to plan and manage highway main-
tenance and operation, and to introduce modern technical and
financial management practices;
(c)  to improve traffic safety on National Highways;
(d)  to develop the capacity of Pakistani contractors to execute main-
tenance and rehabilitation works using modern techniques, equip-
ment and materials; and
(e)  to continue to mobilize revenues from road users for the main-
tenance of the National Highways.



-17-
C. Description
3.03    The principal project components are:
(a) rehabilitation of about 650 km of the N-5 Highway and associated
bridges;
(b) improvements to maintenance and traffic engineering on National
Highways;
(c) establishment of a pilot-scale highway patrol;
(d) expansion of the national driver instructor training school;
(e) institutional improvements in Baluchistan C&W Department;
(f) studies for future highway and road transportation projects; and
(g)  training and technical assistance.
Components are described below and in greater detail in Annexes A through
D.
Highway Rehabilitation
3.04      Proposed rehabilitation works consist of reconstruction of the
existing 7 m carriageway or the construction of a parallel carriageway
or both, the decision being based on the condition of the existing pave-
Ient and/or traffic capacity. The works comprise some 538 km of new
carriageway construction and 112 km of existing carriageway reconstruction
(see Map IBRD 19727, and Annex C). The project would increase by 190 km
the segments of the U-5 Highway operating as a dual carriageway, bringing
the overall total to 393 km (out of 1760 km). Associated with this
program would be the construction of bypasses to five towns, seven bridges
over the railway eliminating level crossings, and a number of other major
bridges.
3.05      The feasibility studies e2amined the costs associated with the
choice of construction method. In virtually all cases of reconstruction,
it was found more economic to construct a new parallel carriageway while
traffic continued on the existing carriageway than to attempt reconstruc-
tion under traffic. In the case of 55 km, both the existing and the new
carriageway would be incorporated in the dual carriageway design. In some
cases, however, for reasons of right-of-way width, alignment, or ground
water conditions, the existing carriageway would be buried beneath the new
carriageway and its center line offset.. Construction and geometric stand-
ards are given in Annex C.



-18-
Improvements to Highway Maintenance
3.06      The maintenance improvement program has the following aims:  (i)
to develop a modern, systematic monitoring of the National Highway network
and the planning and management of the required maintenance program; and
(ii) to improve the standard of execution by moving progressively to a
system of maintenance by contract, using modern technical methods and
materials. A pavement management system (PMS) has been developed by
consultants Kampsax (Denmark) which would be installed in NHB during the
course of the project. Kampsax has been retained for implementation of
this program, which will include training for NHS and the contractors'
staff in maintenance techniques and contract management. The project
would introduce new forms of contract including methods of fixing the
amount of work, its measurement and payment, conducive to tight financial
control and supervision. An Action Plan for improving maintenance on the
National Highways (Annex A) has been prepared and agreed on with GOP.
Some changes required to existing maintenance practices may be politically
sensitive, and the extent of adoption of the Action Plan may vary from
province to province.
3.07      The project would also supply certain complementary equipment
items to increase the operational efficiency of the surface dressing teams
created in provincial C&W's under the THP. Disbursement of these funds
would be conditional upon GOP supplying evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that the equipment would be used by properly constituted surface dressing
teams with agreed and funded work programs.
3.08      A traffic engineering unit would be established in NHB (see
Annex D). The project would provide technical assistance for 18 months,
equipment and materials for line marking and signing, and for data record-
ing and traffic counting. The section would work closely with PMS
managers. The objective of the section would be to establish traffic
counting, signing, and line marking on a routine basis throughout the
network, and to develop expertise in intersection design. GOP agreed to
establish and staff the traffic engineering section as part of the Action
Plan, by December 1987.
Provincial Maintenance Study
3.09      Maintenance of provincial roads is poor, and outdated methods
and materials are used. There are also serious institutional problems and
a rooted resistance to change. The proposed study would review the
management and execution of maintenance in each province and would iden-
tify aad recommend reorganization alternatives and a technical improvement
package. GOP would then discuss this review with each C&W. If there is a
genuine commitment to organizational reform and the introduction of some
or all of the technical package, a second phase would be undertaken - a
maintenance planning exercise, leading to preparation of a component of a



-19-
possible future project. During negotiations GOP agreed to undertake this
study, with terms of reference and according to a schedule to be mutually
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank.
Studies for Future Road Transport Projects
3.10      The proposed loan would provide funds for identification and
preparation of future road transport projects. While the principal focus
of such studies would be road works with provision for feasibility and
design of candidate sections totalling about 500 km, funding may also be
directed, as agreed between GOP ard the Bank, to other studies in the road
transport subsector.
I
Construction Industry
3.11      The increasingly mechanised road construction industry is meet-
ing a familiar obstacle-the difficulty of maintaining a flow of imported
spare parts. One problem is the lengthy administrative procedure to be
followed and the other is the high rate of duty. GOP has agreed to con-
vene an inter-agency committee which may include members drawn from the
machinery and contracting industry, the Ministry of Finance, the Customs
and Excise Department and MOC, to review the situation. During nego-
tiations GOP agreed to form the Inter-Agency Committee by October 319
1987, to review import procedures for spare parts for construction
machinery and vehicles and the levels of duties charged the.:eon, and to
inform the Bank of its findings by JulY 1, 1988.
Institutional Improvements in Baluchistan C&W Department
3.12      The proposed project includes specific assistance to C&W
Baluchistan as a continuation of that begun during the THP. Technical
assistance and equipment will be provided to complete the surface dressing
team's equipment (adding to equipment supplied under the THP) and then
training the team on a series of actual jobs. The supply of materials and
other associated expenses would come from Baluchistans normal maintenance
allocation and not from the project's budget. Before this could be done
however, input will be required from the Provincial toad Maintenance
Study, since Baluchistan currently has no road development plan. Assis-
tance in pavement design and quality control, including developing the use
of indigenous materials, and in equipment management, would also be
included as part of the follow-up recommended by experts in these fields
under the THP. C&Wp Baluchistan has not yet acted upon the recommenda-
tiors of the THP specialists in materials testing and equipment manage-
ment. Disbursements for the re-engagement of these specialists under the
proposed project would therefore be conditional upon the Government of
Baluchistan providing a satisfactory written plan of action, including
proposals for staffing and training, based on the THP recommendations.
During negotiations GOP agreed that no loan funds would be disbursed for



-20-
this component unless a detailed implementation schedule had been approved
by the Bank.
Road Safety
3.13      Road safety in Pakistan is an increasingly serious problem.
Under the project, a pilot-scale highway patrol would be established by
the Road Safety Wing, MOC. A 200 km length of the N-5 Highway in Punjab
has been tentatively identified as a possible site. Four patrols covering
50 km each would operate out of existing police stations linked by radio
to Police Headquarters in Islamabad. Patrols would be based on motor-
cycles, and their duties would cover law enforcement and traffic control,
assistance to broken down vehicles, and accident investigation. Details
of a possible scenario are given in Annex B. The proposed project would
finance buildings, vehicles, radio sets, and training, including overseas
training visits. A road safety specialist would also be financed by the
project for 12 man months.
3.14      A supply of properly trained driving instructors has been iden-
tified as a starting point for an attempt to raise national driving stand-
ards. The existing driver training school headquarters at Islamabad,
functions under the Road Safety Wing of MOC. This would be expanded into
a new building with its own driving range, near Rawalpindi. Full details
are given in Annex B. A specialist would assist with setting up the
school, and part of the training of the corps of instructors would take
place overseas. The project would help finance the buildings, specialized
equipment, technical assistance, training and overseas training visits.
The Bank's approval to detailed implementation schedules for the road
safety program would be a condition of disbursement of loan funds.
Technical Assistance and Training
3.15      Technical assistance and training needs for implementation of
the project and associated institution building have been carefully
appraised and would be addressed under various components of the project
as described below. Training consisting of classroom, on-site and over-
seas instruction, would be provided to:
(a) NHB staff responsible for project supervision and contractors' and
consultants' personnel. This would include training in com-
puterized project management systems and software;
(b) NHB and contractors' staff responsible for planning management and
execution of maintenance on national highways. Training would
cover the operation of the pavement management system installed in
NHB as part of the project, and modern maintenance techniques and
contract management methods (See Annex 4);



-21-
(c) the traffic engineering section established in NHB under the
project. Technical assistance and training would include standard
practices for traffic counting, signing, line marking, and inter-
section design;
(d) C&W Baluchistan technical staff on techniques for applying surface
dressings, assistance in pavement design and quality control, and
equipment management; and
(e)  highway patrol staff on methods of road safety enforcement, and
assistance. Instructors in the expanded driver instructor train-
ing school would attend courses and seminars in specialized train-
ing and instruction techniques related to driver education.
Engineering
3.16      Final engineering for the civil works is being carried out by
six firms of Pakistani engineers, overseen by a team of coordinating
consultants (Lyon Associates, USA). Lyon Associates prepared a set of
standard bridge decks for spans up to 40 m which have been used
throughout, and also a standard set of contract documents and general
specifications, based on the Bank's model documents. The pavement design
standards which mostly follow ASHTO (American Association of State Highway
and Traffic Officials) specifications, represent a considerable technical
step forward compared to existing COP standards. The new standards have
been worked up into a manual which will hereafter serve throughout NHB.
All design work is complete. Bids have been invited for four contracts,
and will be opened on April 30, 1987. Contract documents are substan-
tially ready for the remainder of the construction program.



-22-
Cost Estimates
3.17      The estimated cost of the project is shown in detail in Tables
3.1 (a)-(c) and is summarized below:
(Rupees Million)                (US$ Million)
!  !  !    x Total
!  !X1% Foreign  Base
!Local  Foreign  Total !Local Foreign Total!Exchange   Costs
Highway and Bridge
Construction              1,793.0 1,859.7 3,652.7 103.0  106.9  209.9       51        93
Maintenance Improvement
Program                      87.9    87.3   175.2   5.1    5.0   10.1       50         4
Assistance to Baluchistan       3.6    26.2    29.8   0.2    1.5    1.7       88         1
Road Safety Program            41.2    19.6    60.8   2.4    1.1    3.5       32         2
Base Costs                  1,925.7 1,992.8 3,918.5 110.7  114.5  225.2       51       100
Physical Contingencies        190.3   197.0   387.3  10.9   11.3   22.3       51        10
Price Contingencies           528.1   205.1   733.2  27.8    9.5   37.2       25        17
Total Project Costs         2,644.1 2,394.9 5,039.0 149.4  135.3  284.7       48       126
=:====== ===-== ==C===== ==:===Z    ===           _         =
3.18      Cost estimates for civil works are based on engineer's estimates
made during the final engineering phase, using unit prices updated to June
1986, taken from NHB's current national highway contracts. Technical
assistance costs are based on those currently encountered for similar
services; prices of equipment are based on enquiries from local agent!.
Other prices are based on mission and NHB estimates and enquiries from
potential suppliers of goods or services.
3.19      Based on prior experience, physical contingencies have been
included at a rate of 10 percent for civil works and 5 percent for serv-
ices and equipment. Price contingencies follow the rates calculated by
the Bank for foreign and local price inflation as follows:



-23-
GOP's FY      87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95
Local           .075    .075    .075      .06    .045    .045    .045    .045
Foreign         .03     .01      .01      .01    .035    .035    .035    .035
Letting of contracts would be phased over two to three years and each
would last for 2-1/2 to 3-1/2 years, giving an overall construction period
of about six years.  The disbursement profile given in Table 3.2 follows
the appropriate regional profile prepared by the Bank, allowing 7-1/2
years between Board presentation and the final closure of the loan
account. Price contingencies have been applied over this period. In the
event that construction were completed in 5-1/2 years, the overall cost
might be reduced by US$9 million, or 3.8 percent.
3.20      The foreign exchange content has been calculated for each com-
ponent (see Table 3.1), and foreign and local contingencies have been
applied accordingly. The foreign component of civil works is made up of
equipment and spare parts, fuel, bitumen, contractors' expatriate staff,
home office expenses and profit. It also includes a proportion of the
cost of cement, of which Pakistan is a net importer, and of steel rein-
forcing bars, for which most inputs are imported.
Financing Plan
3.21      The borrower will be the Government of Pakistan; the financing
plan is shown below:
----------$S Ni 11io…------------
Foreign    Z       Local    x       Taxes    2      Total   X
GOP               -               100.7   (86)      32.0   (100)  132.7  (47)
IBRD            135.3   (100)      16.7   (14)       -             152.0  (53)
Total:          135.3             117.4             32.0           284.7



-24-
The proposed loan of US$152 million would finance about 60 percent of the
net of tax cost or about 53 percent of total project costs. This is
equivalent to 100 percent of foreign costs and about 14 percent of local
costs. GOP would furnish the balance including about US$32 million (11
percent) in taxes. GOP has made provision in its FY86/87 annual develop-
ment program (ADP) in the amount of Rs 260 million to meet start up costs
until June 30, 1987. As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan, GOP will be required to furnish to the Bank evidence that: (i) the
funds needed to carry out the project in FY 1987/88 have been allocated;
and (ii) full ECNEC approval of the PC-1 has been given.
Land Acquisition
3.22      Except for the bypasses proposed for urban areas, only minor
land acquisition is requiredt mostly to provide a few meters of extra
width on the existing rights of way. NHB employs a full-time property
officer to handle land acquisition and relocation of utilities. Proce-
dures developed during THP work well and this work is proceeding in
advance of loan processing under a separate funding. No loan funds will
be used for land acquisition. Associated problems are encrQachments,
graves and mosques within the 67 meters of the right of way on each side
(total width 134 meters). Where graves or mosques cannot be relocated
there is usually no alternative but to shift the center line. Sites where
this is a problem have mostly been located and an appropriate alignment
decision already made. In the case of urban bypasses, parcels of land
will be required which will take time to acquire following completion of
the studies. During negotiations, agreement was reached that land
acquisition, relocation of utilities and removal of roadside encroachments
would be completed in such a way that project progress was not impeded.
Furthermore, contracts for sections of road where land acquisition is
required for more than 10 percent of the contract length, would not be
signed unless the Government had taken possession of at least 50 percent
of the land. Roadside encroachments made after construction rob the road
user of the benefits of upgrading and aggravate the maintenance load.
These encroachments and the construction of unauthorised accesses is a
serious problem in South Asia. GOP has satisfactory legislation in this
respect but traditionally has been reluctant to enforce it. During nego-
tiations GOP agreed to take all necessary measures within its powers to
prevent encroachment of the right of way and the construction of
unauthorised accesses on l'ngths of the N-5 Highway reconstructed under
THP or the proposed project.



-25-
Procurement
3.23      Procurement arrangements are shown in the table below which also
shows ICB/LCB and prior review thresholds:
Procurement Method (US$ Million) a/
Project Component              ICB           LCB        Other          Total
Civil Works                 250.2                                   250.2
(127.3)d/                              (127.3)
Equipment, ambulances,
recovery vehicles, and       1.5        0.3          0.4 bl'         2.2
motorcycles                 (1.5)        (.2)        (.4)           (2.1)
Vehicles                       -          0.1           -             0.1
(0)                         (0)
Technical services             -                     22.6 c/         22.6
and training                                      (22.6)          (22.6)
Buildings                      -         2.7                          2.7
(0)                         (0)
NHB Services                   -           -          6.9             6.9
(0)           (0)
Totals                251.7        3.1         29.9          284.7
(128.8)      (0.2)       (23.0)         (152.0)
a/  including contingencies and taxes.
b/  International and local shopping.
c/ Consultation via international shortlist.
_/ Figures in parentheses are the amounts expected to be financed by the loan.
Design:      Percentage of Civil Works design complete:  100X
All N-5 civil works contracts would be let by ICB. Contract documents are
based on the Bank's model document. Consulting services for technical
assistance and supervision are being obtained by inviting proposals from
approved shortlists of expatriate firms in joint venture with the local
firms responsible for design. Technical assistance for maintenance
improvement in NHB, would be provided by Kampsax (Denmark), the firm which
developed the PM8 as part of the maintenance study financed under the THP.
Assistance to Baluchistan would be provided as a continuation of services
being provided under the THP. Equipment and vehicles for Baluchistan
Province and the highway patrol would be purchased through ICB. Other
equipment for offices, laboratories workshops, etc. would be purchased by
LCB or prudent shopping based on three invited quotations. All contracts
for civil works and equipment will be subject to prior review.



-26-
3.24      Some 59 contractors have been prequalified for civil works.
Notices have stressed that prequalification was open to foreign and Pakis-
tani firms, and to joint ventures of foreign/local firms. Local firms
bolstered by expatriate management assistance were also encouraged to
participate. Contract size has been determined to give scope for all
likely classes of participants. A domestic preference of 7-1/2 percent
would be available for domestic contractors but not for joint ventures,
because of the difficulty of determining the true level of l'ocal par-
ticipation. LCB procedures for building works are generally satisfactory,
but all contracts would receive prior review.
Project Execution and Supervision
3.25      Overall responsibility for project implementation would be
vested in the MOC through NWB. During negotiations GOP agreed to establish
a Project Management Cell (P1C) by September 30, 1987. It would be estab-
lished at NHB's headquarters, and would be assisted by specialist advisers
in modern project management techniques. Terms of Reference for these
advisers call for the introduction of a rigorous approach to critical path
analysis, and cash flow forecasting by the contractors, the supervision
organisations, and the PMC. This would provite early warning of delays
and cost over-runs, and would greatly assist GOP in the forecasting of its
cash flow needs to finance the project. PMC would be responsible for all
project accounts including operation of a Special Account in US Dollars,
which would be operated as a revolving fund, and from which monthly pay-
ments to contractors would be made. Computerised accounting on a stand-
ardized format would also be introduced throughout all disbursing
activities. To guard against the risk of the project being over-extended
in a period of possible funding shortfalls by GOP, loan funds for civil
works contracts signed after June 1988 are subject to a disbursement
condition (para 3.27).
3.26      Supervision of civil works would be divided between two sets of
consultants, one each for the Northern and the Southern groups of con-
tracts. Following experience during THP, it was considered essential to
introduce an element of expat:iate supervision while maintaining links
with the six Pakistani firms responsible for design. To this end, inter-
national firms from a shortlist agreed with the Bank have been invited to
submit proposals in association with the six Pakistani firms. The road
safety component would be managed by the Road Safety Wing of MOC.



-27-
Disbursements, Accounts and Audits
3.27      The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed on the following
basis:
Percentage of
Category           Item               Allocation           expenditures to
(USs loOO)          be financed
1         Civil works               120,500             511
2         Equipment, ambulances,
recovery vehicles
and motor cycles          2,000           1001 of foreign
1001 of local
ex-factory
501 of other local
procurement
3         Consultants' services,
technical assistance
and training              22,000           100%
4         Unallocated                 7,500
Total:              152,000
A schedule of disbursements has been established, based on the South Asia
7-1/2 year profile (Table 3.2). Because of the risk that GOP may not be
able at all times to provide its share of the required funds, a condition
of disbursement for civil works contracts awarded in FY88/89 and there-
after would be that funds required for the project have been provided by
GOP in a satisfactory manner. The project is expected to be substantially
complete by June 1994 and the loan account is expected to be closed in
December 1994. Retroactive financing (from Jan 1, 1987) of up to US$12
million equivalent is proposed, to allow for payment of mobilization
advances for the first batch of civil works contracts and to secure tech-
nical assistance for project start-up.
3.28      All procurement, purchase orders and disbursements except for
GOP payments to its civil servants and the police, would be passed through
PMC which would also operate the Special Account. The Special Account,
denominated in US Dollars, would be established (initial deposit
approximately US$7 million) in the National Bank of Pakistan. NHB gained



-28-
experience in the operation of a revolving fund in the THP. During  nego-
tiation, GOP agreed to maintain separate accounts for the project and to
have all the accounts of the project including the Special Account,
audited at the close of each financial year by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank, and to furnish audited financial statements to
the Bank within six months of the end of the financial year. Where state-
ments of expenditure (SOE's) are use for payments under small civil works
contracts or for payments of GOP's establishment costs, GOP agreed to
retain all documentation for review by the Bank, to maintain separate
records and to have them audited. SOE's would not be used for payments
"der contracts for civil works costing more than $200,000, nor for goods
more than $100,000.
Environmental Impact
3.29      The whole of the works lie within a road reserve which has
served the same purpose for centuries and the northern contracts between
Lahore and Kharian are part of the famous Grand Trunk Road from Calcutta
to the Khyber Pass, first constructed by King Sher Shah in 1540-1545 AD.
In no sense is the road an intrusion on the environment. The road works
proposed under the project may adversely affect the environment during the
construction phase-interruptions to traffic, congestion, noise, and dust
would undoubtedly result. However, the completed works would have a
positive impact in that smooth road surfaces, and improved capacity would
result in shorter journey times, less congestion and noise, and a general
enhancement of the environment. Drainage outlets which on the old road
have become blocked would be re-cut resulting in a healthier and cleaner
environment. A total of five bypasses would be built around existing
towns, relieving them of the burden of heavy through traffic. The project
is not expected significantly to alter air pollution levels of existing
vehicular traffic.
Project Reporting
3.30      PMC would be responsible for preparing quarterly progress
reports on the proposed project and on the operation and management of its
facilities, and for the production of annual financial statements for
audit. The reports would draw upon and consolidate reports received from
managers of individual project components and shall indicate progress made
and problems encountered during the quarter under review and proposed
future programs of activities. About six months after physical completion
of the project, NHB would present to the Bank, a Project Completion Report
including project cost, general characteristics of project execution, and
the degree to which objectives were achieved.



-29-
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.01      Road transport plays an impottant role in the economy of Pakis-
tan. The proposed project is designed to rehabilitate sections of the
National Highway network, improve maintenance, and introduce higher traf-
fic safety standards. The deteriorating condition of much of the network
is raising transport costs and is becoming an increasingly serious con-
straint to meeting efficiently the transport needs of the country.
4.02      Most of the quantifiable benefits of the proposed project would
accrue in terms of reduction in vehicle operating costs (VOC's). When the
rehabilitation is completed there would be significant savings in fuel
consumption, tire wear, vehicle maintenance and depreciation amounting in
aggregate to about 20% of present operating costs. In addition, the
proposed project would yield benefits in terms of improved road safety,
highway management, and development of the domestic construction industry.
4.03      The project would provide direct benefits to all road users in
terms of reduced transport costs. In the case of transportation of goods,
more than 95% of trucks are privately owned by individuals and small
transport companies, and there is an adequate number of trucks to satisfy
the demand. The market is competitive, and the benefits of reduced VOC's
could be expected to be passed on to shippers and the economy in general.
In the passenger transport industry, VOC's savings would accrue at first
to the bus owners, encouraging additional investment, but benefits would
be passed in the long run, to passengers. Passenger-time savings would
obviously accrue immediately to users.
4.04      Benefits have been quantified for the road rehabilitation com-
ponent, which accounts for 93% of total project base cost. The benefits
of improved maintenance have been quantified by the PMS; overlaying with
50 mm asphalt concrete typically shows benefit/cost ratios between 4 and 6
times on national highways. Experience with such interventions indicates
that maintenance programs have very high rates of return. The benefits of
the road safety programs have not been quantified.
B. Economic Evaluation
4.05      All the road sections to be upgraded lie along the N-5 Highway,
the main national highway which runs from Karachi to Peshawar (about
1,760 km) and connects the major cities of Hyderabad, Multan, Lahore,
Rawalpindi/Islamabad. The road traverses the major agricultural produc-
tion areas of the country, and provides important access for the marketing
of agricultural products. Traffic surveys undertaken during the prepara-
tion of the project indicate that about 25% of the traffic involves long



-30-
distance inter-provincial trips while the remaining 752 of the trips are
intra-provincial.
4.06      Traffic counts were carried out as part of project preparation
and were supplemented by data from routine annual counts made by the
C&W's, and other recent studies. Present traffic volumes on the project
sections vary from about 3,000 ADT to 8,0oo ADT.
4.07      Traffic growth rates were adopted from the 1983 JICA national
transportation study, which proj^ted slightly higher growth for freight
traffic over passenger traffic. The consultants also considered histori-
cal data for a variety of fsctors that reflect vehicle use, such as fuel
consumption, motor vehicle registration, car production, and provincial
traffic counts. The growth rates adopted were consistent with the his-
torical traffic growth and projected increases in population and CDP.
Traffic projections are based on normal growth and do not include gener-
ated traffic, the estimation of which is unreliable. Rates of return are
therefore conservative estimates. The projected annual traffic growth
rates by highway section vary from 62 to 81 up to 1990, and are projected
to taper slightly from 1990 to 2000. Table 4.1 presents the 1985 traffic
volumes and the projected traffic growth rates through 2000.
4.08      The N-5 corridor is served by both road and rail.  In determin-
ing the economic viability of the proposed works, the distribution of
future traffic between road and rail facilities has been analyzed allowing
for their present and future service characteristics, capacity and total
distribution costs. Even though the Sixth Five-Year Plan
(1983/84-1988/89) had intended that the railways should handle an
increased share of long distance bulk traffic, a large diversion of
freight from the roads to the railways is unlikely to occur. In the event
that PR achieves greater operating efficiency, the railways might capture
some freight presently moving by road, but on the other hand, an upgraded
N-5 highway might induce some rail passenger traffic to move to road
vehicles. In either case, the effect of traffic diversion on estimated
project benefits is unlikely to be greater than 20X. Sensitivity tests
were therefore used to show how benefits might be affected if a 20% shift
in traffic took place.
4.09      The project's major category consists of highway improvements
under ten contracts, grouped into five sections for the economic evalua-
tion, and further sub-divided into links homogeneous with respect to
traffic volume, terrain and geometry. Selection was made on grounds of
pavement condition, traffic and congestion. The economic capital and
maintenance costs of each section have been obtained by deducting from the
financial costs all relevant taxes, licenses, duties and fees. Inputs for
vehicle operating costs are exclusive of taxes and duties, and shadow
prices have been used for labor and foreign exchange. Unskilled and
skilled labor costs have been factored by 0.75 and 1.25, respectively



-31-
based on GOP's Planning Commission estimates. A foreign exchange shadow
conversion rate of 1.19 was used from a report to Bankers Equity of March
1985. These are consistent with factors used in previous Bank projects.
4.10      For each section, the following alternatives were examined:
(i) construction of a new parallel carriageway, (ii) rehabilitating and
upgrading of the existing road, (iii) constructing a new urban bypass, or
(iv) construction of a dual carriageway by upgrading the existing road and
e.onstructing a new parallel carriageway. For each section, the most
economical alternative in terms of total transportation cost (capital,
maintenance, and vehicle operating costs) was selected.
4.11      In summaryt based on assumptions and estimates described above
and on the results indicated in Table 4.2, the following table shows the
economic cost and rate of return for each section:
Economic
Contract section                                         Cost          ERR
Number                                          (Re million)   (percent)
1 & 2              Karachi-Hyderabad                   601            30
3a, 3b, 4          Hyderabad-Naushero Perose            812           18
5'                 Multan-Nianchannu                   405            41
6                  Mianchannu-Sahiwal                   537           24
7a, 7b, 8          Gujranwala-Rharian                  906            26
TOTAL                                          3,261            27
Source: Table 4.2.
All project components show high EMRs and the proposed project is well
justified on economic grounds. The project's overall ERR is 27X, well
above the opportunity cost of capital. Details of the economic analysis
can be found in Tables 4.1 to 4.3 and in the Project File.
4.12      The results of a sensitivity analysis are presented in Table
4.3, For instance, if 201 of the vehicle operating cost savings were lost
due to freight traffic re-captured by the railway, then the overall HRR
would be 21%, with ERRs for individual sections ranging from 13-34X. If
project costs were to be 201 higher, the overall return would be 22M, with
return for individual sections ranging from 14-35Z. If project costs were
to increase by 20 percent and benefits reduced by 20X, the overall ERR for
the project would be 171, with returns for individual sections ranging



-32-
from 9-28X. The results of the sensitivity analysis indicate that even
under unfavorable assumptions, there is little risk that the economic
return for any of the project components would fall to unacceptable
levels.
C. Risk Analy3is
4.13      The rehabilitation component involves proven technology,
institutions and contractors, therefore risks are minimal. The major risk
is whether, despite a government commitment, adequate funding will be
provided for the expanded maintenance program and the construction con-
tracts. The Bank and GOP have had extensive discussions on the benefits
of regular and sufficient road maintenance and the need for such a program
is well appreciated. These discussions have also focused on sources of
road user revenue which could be mobilised to meet these expenses (see
paras 2.16 and 2.17). In the final analysis, howevert budgetary alloca-
tions will be influenced by many factors including macro-economic condi-
tions. To protect against an inability to meet payments to contractor,
NHB will employ project manegement specialists among whose duties will be
the accurate forecasting of cash flow needs. The Loan Agreement contains
provision for the Bank to time the release of loan funds to match the
release of funds by GOP and to be conditional upon satisfactory perfor-
mance to date. There is also the risk that NHB may not be fully competent
to manage a much larger project, but specialist assistance is included to
obsiate this risk.
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with GOP on various
issues referred to in this report, including the following of particular
significance. GOP agreed:
(a)  to make available sufficient funds for routine and periodic
maintenance of national highways over the period FY 87/88 to FY
91/92, and not later than December 31, 1987 inform the Bank of
the indicative planning figures adopted per annum (para 2.15);
(b)  to review and modify as appropriate, its system of collecting
road user charges in accordance with a timetable mutually
acceptable to GOP and the Bank (para 2.18);
(c)  to give the Bank timely opportunities to consult on its invest-
ment plan for the National Highway System when available; and to
give due consideration to any comments and suggestions made by
the Bank in the course of such consultations (para 2.19);



-33-
(d) to carry out the Road Maintenance Action Plan, including the
establishment by December 31, 1987, within NHB, of a maintenance
directorate, a pavement monitoring unit, a traffic engineering
unit, and expertise in equipment management (para 3.06 and
Annex A);
(e) to carry out the Provincial Maintenance Study with terms of
reference and according to a schedule to be mutually agreed upon
between-the Borrower and the Bank (para 3.09);
(f)  to form an an inter-agency committee by October 31, 1987 to
review procedures for spare parts for construction machinery and
the levels of duty charged thereon and to inform the Bank of its
findings by July 1, 1988 (para 3.11);
(g) that land acquisition, relocation of utilities and removal of
roadside encroachments would be completed in such a way that
project progress was not impeded. Furthermore, contracts for
sections of road where land acquisition was required for more
than 101 of the contract length would not be signed unless
Government had taken possession of at least 50% of the land
required (para 3.22);
(h) to take all necessary measures within its powers to prevent
encroachment of the right of way and the construction of
unauthorized accesses on lengths of the N-5 Highway recon-
structed under the THP and the proposed project (para 3.22);
(i) to establish a Project Management Cell by September 30, 1987
(para 3.25); and
(j) to maintain separate accounts for the project and to have all
the accounts of the project including the Special Account and
Statements of Expenditure audited at the close of each financial
year by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, and to
furnish audited financial statements to the Bank within six
months of the end of the financial year (para 3.28).
5.02      During negotiations it was further agreeds  (i) that funds would
not be disbursed from the loan far surface dressing equipment,-technical
assistance to Baluchistan or the road safety program, until detailed
implementation plane and/or schedules for each component had been agreed
with the Bank (paras 3.07, 3.12, and 3.14); and (ii) that funds would not
be disbursed for civil works contracts signed in PY 88/89 and thereafter,
unless the Bank had determined that sufficient funds had been provided
(para 3.25).
5.03      As conditions of effectiveness, GOP shall show that:



..34q-
(a) funds sufficient to carry out the project in FY87/88 have been
*lUocated (para 3.21); and
(b) the PC-1 for the project has received approval of ECIEC
(para 3.21).
5.04      With the above assurances and covenants, the project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Dank loan of US$152 million equivalent to the
Government of Pakistan with repayment over 20 years, including five years
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.



-35-
Annex A
Page 1 of 2
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
NATIONAL HIGHWAY BOARD
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Action Plan
Purpose
1.        This Action Plan is designed to contribute to the Borrower's
policy to improve the maintenance of the National Highway System by
replacing the present system of maintenance based on a standard sum per km
of road ("yardstick") with a two-tier system of maintenance based on the
demonstrated actual maintenance needs of each highway section, to be
executed to the extent possible through contracts in a phased program for
agreed and measured quantities of work.
Definitions
2.        Road maintenance activities are classified as follows:
(a) routine maintenance comprises those activities which are
required one or more times each year to preserve pavements,
shoulders, structures, drains and verges against the combined
effects of traffic, climate and topography; and
(b) periodic maintenance comprises those activities which are
required once every second or more years only to re-instate the
pavements, shoulders, structures, drains and verges' to the
conditions they were in at the time of construction, or as
subsequently improved.
Maintenance Funds Required
3.        The Borrower shall make available the necessary funds fo: the
periodic and routine maintenance of the National Highway System over the
five-year period FY 87/88 through FY 91/92. To this end, the Bo.-rower
shall, not later than December 31, 1987, furnish to the Bank the indica-
tive planning figures per annum for such period.



-36-
Annex A
Page 2 of 2
Implementation Program
4.        The Borrower shall, through the Directorate General, NHB:
(a)  establish, by December 31, 1987, within NHB, a Maintenance
Directorate headed by a Director and with functions satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Bank. The Directorate shall include a
Pavement Monitoring Unit, a Traffic Engineering Unit, and an
element of expertise in equipment management; and
(b) cause the Directorate, with suitable technical assistance:
(i) to evaluate the routine and periodic maintenance needs
for the National Highway System in terms of measured
quantities of work items and prepare an annual estimate
based on these quantities;
(ii)  for those sections of the National Highway System for
which maintenance is to be carried out by contractors, to
incorporate the quantities contained in (i) within
separate contracts for routine and periodic maintenance
and invite tenders from prequalified local contractors.
Contractors shall be separately prequalified for routine
and for periodic maintenance; and
(iii) to administer the maintenance contracts/works following a
uniform procedure to include a system of regular highway
inspections, work scheduling and quality control.



-37-
Annex B
Page 1 of 5
PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Safety Component
1.        Road safety in Pakistan is an increasingly serious problem.  In
1984, 11,923 accidents were reported involving 4,721 deaths and 12,307
personal injuries, but there is believed to be substantial
under-reporting. Outdated vehicles and narrow congested highways
presently restrict vehicle speeds but as both are modernized, there is
scope for many more accidents and early action to improve road safety is
required. Few drivers in Pakistan have received any formal training and
much of the current poor driving is therefore due to ignorance. Reflect-
ing the government's growing concern is the new Road Safety Ordinance,
currently before the National Assembly. Government plans to implement
improved road safety measures covering driver education and the patrolling
of highways which the project will assist. The execution of this com-
ponent will be the responsibility of the Highway Safety Wing of the Minis-
try of Communications which will monitor and oversee the conduct and
effectiveness of the highway patrol and the driver instructor training
school (DITS).
Establishment of a Pilot-scale Highway Patrol
2.        GOP intends to establish a pilot-scale highway patrol and the
ensuing paragraphs describe a possible scenario for siting it on a 200 km
stretch of the N-5 in Punjab. However, this scenario was developed for
planning and estimating purposes only and GOP is not committed to siting
the trial in Punjab.
3.        The proposed highway patrol would extend from Attock Bridge on
the NWFP/Punjab border to Jhelum Bridge, a total length of 198 km, all
within Punjab Province. Headquarters would be located at Islamabad. A
Superintendent of Police (SP) would be the officer-in-charge of the patrol
with sufficient staff and equipment for round-the-clock operation. The
police input will be the responsibility of the Deputy Inspector
General (DIG) Traffic, Punjab. If successful, it would be extended to the
entire N-5 Highway and eventually to other major highways. The organiza-
tional structure is given in Figure B-2.
4.        The patrol would be divided into four sectors with a base sta-
tion in each as follows:



Annex B
Page 2 of 5
(a) Sector 1 - Attock Bridge to Hasan Abdal
46 km; base station at Lawrencepur;
(b) Sector 2 - Hasan Abdal to Sawan Bridge
47 km; base station at Sangjani;
(c)  Sector 3 - Sawan Bridge to Missa Kasawal
58 km8; base station at Mandra; and
(d) Sector 4 - Missa Kasswal to Jhelum Bridge
47 km9; base station at Sohawa.
5.        The duties of the proposed highway patrol would be:
(a) enforcement of traffic laws;
(b) traffic control;
(c)  security on the road;
(d) assistance to stranded road users;
(e) assistance to other police forces; and
(f) accident investigation.
6.        Each base station will be staffed by a DSP and seven Assistant
Sub-Inspectors (ASI). Each patrol party will consist of two ASI's on
motor cycles, on shifts of eight hours. Motor cycles patrol will have
mobile wireless sets for communication with their base station. Each base
station will be linked by wireless to headquarters.
Training
7.        Patrol and headquarters staff will be givea training in the
following areas:
(a) traffic laws;
(b)  advanced driver training;
(c) traffic enforcement;
(d) auto mechanics;
(e) first aid; and



-39-w
Annkex 8
Page 3 of 5
(f) accident investigation and reporting.
This training will be given at the Pakistan Police Academy and the Driver
Instructor Training School. Visits abroad will also be arranged to Asian
and European highway patrols and the Police Driving School in UK. Techni-
cal assistance will be provided for the first year.
Capital Cost
8.        Building.  The project envisages establishmeat of base stations
at Lawrencepur, Sangjani, Mandra and Sohawa, and headquarters at
Islamabad. Initially, base stations would be located within the premises
of the respective existing police stations.  Meanwhile, buildings of an
area of 2,000 sq. ft. for each base station and 5,000 sq. ft. for the
headquarters would be constructed. The total cost, at the rate of te 300
per sq. ft. is estimated at Re 3.90 million.
9.        Equipment.  The following equipment items will be require4:
Unit Cost (Rs.)   Number       Cost. (Rs.)
Transport:
Car                           250,000          1           250,000
-3eeps                        200,000          4           800,000
Motor Cycles                   50,000         24         1,200,000
Wreckers                      750,000          3         2,250,000
Ambulance                     350,000          4         1,400,000
Wireless Sets:
Static                         30,000         12           360,000
Mobile                         25,000         48         1,200.000
Total                                                7,460,000
10.       The total cost including operating costs for three years is
Rs 23 million. Details are given in Table Bl.



-40-
Annex B
Page 4 of 5
Driving Instructor Training School
11.       Road safety is a growing problem in Pakistan and an obvious
measure to combat it, is to raise the standard of driving generally, and
hence the need to train driving instructors to staff driving schools both
private and public around the country.
12       A small driver instructor training school already exists in
Islamabad under the RoUd Safety Wing of MOC, which will be relocated and
expanded under the proposed project. The school will be set up by upgrad-
ing the existing Driver Training School to cater for the requirements of
both private and public sector driver training schools. A suitable amend-
ment in the relevant rules would make it mandatory, after some months of
operation of the school, for driver training schools to employ quality
instructors who have attended the prescribed course at the school and
obtained a proper certificate of successful completion. The modified rule
would be applied in a phased manner on district basis.
13.       The school would be headed by a principal and would have
instructional, administrative and monitoring wings. The instructional
wing shall consist of one Programme Officer, six Instructors and one
Documentation Officer in charge of Audio-Visual Aids and the Library. The
Administrative Wing will have supporting staff for administration,
accounts, transport, store and security. The organizational set-up of the
school is presented in Figure B-1. The duration of the course would be
two months. Broad outline of the syllabus is as follows:
(a) traffic law;
(b) basic driving techniques;
(c) advance driving;
(d) auto mechanics;
(e) instructional techniques; and
(f) examining.
14.       The average intake per course would be ten persons and two
courses would run concurrently. The total output of the school would be
120 per annum. The course would be open to all individuals possessing the
following minimum qualification and experience:
Academic                    -     High School Graduate
Age Limit                   -     21-35 years
Experience as a driver      -     3 years



-41-
Annex B
Page 5 of 5
Technical Assistance
15.       The services of a specialist in driver education will be
retained for the initial year of the expanded schools' operation.  He will
be selected from.a shortlist drawn up after international advertising.
His duties will be to advise MOC on the implementation of the component,
to train all instructional staff, and to co-ordinate the overseas training
equipment of key staff.
Equipment and Construction
16.       A site has been allocated between Islamabad and Rawalpindi.  A
2000 m2 building would be constructed, having four classrooms and
instructor offices. A driving range, having approximately one mile of
road simulating a variety of junctions and other layouts, would occupy the
remainder of the site. The project will also finance four instruction
vehicles, a driving simulator, classroom, offices, laboratory, furniture,
equipment and visual aids.
Cost                          Rs  millions
Buildings                            20.0
Equipment & Vehicles                  2.6
Local Staff                            5.8
Technical Assistance                   3.6
Total            32.0



-42-
Annex 8
Table B-1
PAKISTAN
FOURTh HIGHWAY PROJUCT
Bstablisbment of a Highway Patrol
Capital Costs                         Rs OOO's
Buildings                              3,900
Bquiplent                              7,460
Furniture                                500
Office equipmnt                          S00
Total:                            12,360
Operating Costs                  Rs 000's per annum
Building Rent                          1,300
Manpower                               1,S00
Overheads                                745
Total:                             3,545
Total for 3 years:         Rs     10,640
Grand Totals                   Rs     23,000



-43-
ANNEX B
Figure B-1
HIGHWASAFETY  WING
DRIVING INSTRUCtOR TRANG S
PRINCIPAL
AO!IMSTRATION WING                    INSTRUCTIONAL WEIG                     MONITORItJO  CE LL
~IfI
AOXl  INl.1.l 
| O"I".   ZCOWtS  t"t   5ToRe  5stY  | 



PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Pilot-Scale Hilghway Patrol
Pu__ab Scenario
-        ATTOCK- JHELUt (198 KM)                           SECTOR
E~                                                         1
ATTOC
URIGE
,,             EIU5^N  ~~~~AElAL
ISLAMABAD
7                    p   ~~~~~~~H- HADQUARTERS
SECTOR             __npGE
2                                                                                     SECTOR
3
LI~~~~~~~~~~~                                  GWARN
DUAL CARRIe                                =                                          JHELUM
5n£ CAGE | ~~~~~~~~~~~,   13'                                           RIDGE
SINGLE CARRUAGE
SECTO      1 



-45-
Annex C
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Rehabilitation
Terrain
1-.       The 550 km of road to be rehabilitated south of Lahore, lie
along the left bank of the Indus River in an alluvial area where the
ground is mostly flat, composed of sands and clays but predominantly silts
of the A3-A6 classification. Cross drainage is flat and slow; in inten-
sively irrigated areas waterlogging, high-water tables and the associated
salinity are a problem. North of Lahore, the route crosses the valleys of
the rivers Chenab and Jhelum, which are also intensively irrigated, and
are composed of similar soils and subject to flooding and poor drainage
during the monsoon.
Pormation and Materials
2.        In order to assure good drainage, relative freedom from flooding
and a good blaitket over very variable surface soils of low CBR and high
organic content, an embankment of 1.0 m has been decided upon. By
mechanical stabilization of adjacent deposits of A3 and A4 soil, a CBR of
5-1OX can be achieved. Although good crushed aggregate has to come up to
200 km on some sections, granular sub-base materials and sand are
everywhere available at modest hauls.
Pavement Design
3.        The thickness design is based on the number of equivalent
8,200 kg standard axles (ESA) expected to traverse the section during its
design life. ESA's have been computed from classified traffic counts, the
NTRC Axle Load Survey, and traffic growth predictions. Thickness design
is based on the ASHTO Interim Guides.



-46-
Annex C
Page 2 of 2
A typical pavement cross section is therefore as follows:
A.C; Wearing Course 10 cm
(60-70 Pen bitumen)
Asphaltic Base Course 17 cm
Granular Sub-base 40 cm
Geometric Design
4.        Due to  the flat terrain,  there are  almost no  restrictions on
achieving a high geometric standard. On contracts 1, 2, 7a and 7b, the
existing carriageway geometrics are entirely satisfactory and the new
carriageway will parallel the old completely.
Design Standards
Right of way                41.6 m          Design speed                  90 kpm
New carriageway width        7.3 m          Minimum horizontal radius  330 m
Shoulder (designed for
22 of BSA's of
carriageway)               2.0 m paved    Stopping sight distance    130 m
1.0 m unpaved
Formation generally          1.0 m          Maximum grade                  3%
Sideslope                    3.1



PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAYV PROJECT
Civil Works Contracts
Contract                                     Length         Cost *       Estimated
kumber               Section                 (km)       Rs million      Award Date                  Re_arks
1         Karachi-Kotri Phase I              68           369            5/87        Additional Carriageuay (7m)
Completing dual carriatgwOy
2         Karachi-Kotri Phase 11             67           337            7/88        Additional Carriageway (7.)
Completing dual Carri0geway
3a    _  Hyderabad-Hala                      45           242            5S/87        Additional carriageWay (70)
and construction of bypasses
3b        Hat&-Sakrand                       44           237            7/88         at Saeedabad and Sakrand
4         Sakrand-Moro                       66           372            7/88         Additional Cerriag --y (70)
and constructiOn of bypass
at Naushero Foro.
5         Qadripur-Iliarchannu               73           331            7/86                                                            1.
6         Vienchannu-Sahiwal                 81           473            5/87         Additional carriageway (7m)                        l
7s        Gujrsnwala-Chenab Bridge           49           286            5/87         Additional carriageway (7.) and
dul 1ing of Wai rabad bypass
lb        Ch-nab  ridSgO-Khar1an (3)         45           262            5/87         Additional carriagway and
dualling of Gujaret bYpass
8         Gujranwala-Khlar1-n                                                         Overlay of existing carriagOWay
8ridges and Ovrlay                 55          320            7/86         and bridges over new carriageway
9         Karachi-Kharian OvOelays           57           174            N/S          Overlay of l-ngths of existing
-                                        carriageway
TOTALs                                       3,403                                                                        
538 km of additional carriageway
112 km of overlay of axisting carriageway
650 km
* Preliminary estimate- base costs Juno 1986
excluding supervision and contingoncies.



-48-
Annex D
PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Engineering
To balance road safety efforts aimed at the driver, it is essen-
tial that the standard of traffic engineering practised by NHB be
improved. there is at present very limited traffic engineering expertise
in NHB, and no established post for a traffic engineer, though a man is
under training in the USA. NHB now wishes to establish such a post, with
a small staff and works facilities and appropriate technical assistance
for an initial period. A budget for the purchase of equipment for traffic
counting, white lining and sign making is also included. The duties of
NHB's traffic engineering section will include:
(a) establishment of a chain of kilometer marker posts throughout
the national highway system;
(b) establishment of a national policy on road signing and marking
and production of a signs and markings manual;
(c) development of a program progressively to introduce standard
signs and markings over the national highway system;
(d) establishment of a chain of permanent traffic counting stations
and the organization of a national annual N-point traffic cen-
sus s
(e)  preparation of an inventory of intersections and of a plan for
the progressive improvement of dangerous intersections; and
(f)  advice to road design staff and consultants of traffic engineer-
ing aspects of current design work.
These tasks would be carried in cooperation with the Pakistan Police,
NTRC, provincial C&W departments and would draw upon the existing practice
in Lahore and Karachi.



-49-
Annex S
PAKI$TAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
Al - Transport Sector Study, J. Tillman, September 1983.
A2 - A Strategy for Rehabilitation and Strengthening of National
Highways, M. Pulgar-Vidal, October 1983.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Bi - Third Highway Project Appraisal Report, NHB, January 1984.
82 - Feasibility studies of several volumes, various Pakistani
consultants, 1985-86.
B3 - Axle Load Study, MTRC.
B4 - Appraisal of Highway Maintenance by Contract in Pakistan,
I C. Sinkinson, Consultant, IDBP.
B5 - Fourth Highway Project, Preliminary Report, NHB, May 1984.
B6 - Fourth Highway Project, Highway Safety Component, NTRC, March
1986.
B7 - Road User Charge Study NTRC, September 1986.
88 - National Highway Maintenance Study, Kampsax, July 1986.
B9 - Final Report of Equipment Management and Materials Testing in
Baluchistan C&W. Lyon Associate, December 1984.



-SO-
Annex F
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
POURT', HIGHWAY PROJSCT
Provincial Road Maintenance Study - Phase I
Draft Outline Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.        Although modern  methods for maintenance  and reconstruction are
being introduced on Pakistan's National Highways, the 40,000 km of
provincial roads continue to be subject to traditional methods and (lack
of) standards, and very inefficient use of meagre financial resources.
Many of these roads arei rapidly deteriorating under the substantial
traffic now being carried. Major reform  in the provincial Conmications
and Works Departments which are responsible for provincial roads, will be
needed if the planning, maintenance and reconstruction are to be improved
to meet the needs of modern traffic.   A first step towards achieving this
is to undertake a detailed highway improvement and maintenance study for
provincial roads including the institutional and technical reforms needed.
Objectives
2.        The objectives of the study will be as followst
(a)   to  determine   the  desirable  highway   maintenance  standard
necessary to sustain and improve highway transportation on
provincial roads;
(b)  recommend organisational improvemts or changes to effect these
standards;
(c) give the costs necessary to achieve these standards over a
five-year period; and
(d)  define what  technical assistance is  needed for  the provincial
CWs to achieve the above.
Scope of the Study
3.        The study will undertake the following:
(a) examine a cross section of roads in each province to determine
present condition, pavement strength and riding quality;
(b)  ascertain  present levels  and characteristics  of  traffic  and
review Provincial projections on traffic growth;



Page 2of 2
(c) review present maintenance operations and methods assessing the
effectiveness of:
(i) procedures for supervision and control.
(ii) basic methods of providing highway maintenance (i.e.,
contractor, force account, own organisation, etc.); and
(iii) cost yardsticks for different road types at various
traffic volumes.
(d) assess the adequacy of the maintenance effort and the adequacy
of the maintenance budget.
4.        Based on the foregoing, the study would recomend:
(a) the optimum methods of execution of periodic and routine
maintenance for the various provinces;
(b)  the required organisational improvement  and
(c)  the technical assistance needed for implementing (a).
5.        The  final report will present  data  on  the  road  condition,
traffic and maintenance rehabilitation costs in such a way as to
facilitate Phase II of the study which would be a maintenance planning
exercise. This would aim tot
(a) recommend a five-year rolling program for period and
maintenance; and
(b) identify the costs of. the program.
t



-52-
Table 1.1
PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Domestic Inter-District Freight and Passenger Traffic 1971/72-1984/85 a/
Average Annual
-------1971/72--- --- -         ------1984/85…-------    --Growth Rate-
billion       billion        billion        billion       1971/72-1984/85
ton-kmn       pass-kms       ton-kms        pass-kmh      ton-kms pass-kmas
Rail          7.8   (491)   9.5   (211)   8.8  (251)   18.2   (171)    0.9              5.1
Road          8.0   (511)  36.5   (791)  24.1  (70Z)   89.5   (821)    8.9              7.1
Air            -             0.3   (01)    -               1.6   (1Z)        -         13.7
Pipeline                      -       -     1.6  ( 51)      -                -           -
15.8  (100%)  46.3  (100%)  34.5 (1001)  109.3  (1002)    6.2             6.9
a/ Figures in brackets indicate percentage of total freight or passenger traffic.
Source: GOP, Planning and Development Division.



-53-
Table 2.1
PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Network 1947 - 1983
(kms)
Unpaved          Paved      Total
I. National and Provincial Highways
1947-1983:
1947                                 14,056          8,080      22,136
1970                                 12,047          17,231     29,278
1980                                 14,688         24,142      38,830
1983                                 15,682         29,491      45,173
By Province (1983):
Punjab                                  407          14,833     15,240
Sind                                  1,311           7,427      8,738
NWFP                                  3,744           3,981      7,725
Baluchistan                          10,220           3,250     13,470
II. Total Network (1983):
National                               -              4,893      4,893 a/
Provincial                           15,682          24,598     40,280 b/
Districts                            42,848           5,678     48,526
Municipalities                        1,417           9,135     10,552
Others                                9,142           9,427     18,569
TOTAL                                  69,089          53,731    122,820
zt__ .nu
a/  As of 1985.
b/ The Indus Highway (1,397 km) is to be reclassified from a provincial
highway to a national highway in 1987.
Source: 1947-1970 Transport Bulletin, NTRC, 1980
1980       Pakistan Rural Roads Project, L. Berger International, 1985
1983       Data supplied by NHB.



-54-
Table 2.2
PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
National Highway Annual Development Program
and Maintenance Expenditures
1978/79 - 1989/90
(Rs Million)
Annual Development Program
Maintenance               N-5       Other
Highway   Highways   Total
Actuals
1978/79                         38                      64        40        114
1979/80                         48                     101        25        126
1980/81                         62                     197        92       289
1981/82                         66                    217        108       325
1982/83                         73                    295         52       347
1983/84                         72                    345         65       410
1984/85                         99                    402        171       573
1985/86                        120                    379        314       693
Budget
1986/87                        150                    753        315     1,068
Proposed
1987/88                        200 (Budget request) 1,000        900     1,900
1988/89                        398                  1,200      1,000     2,200
1989/90                        398                  1,200      1,000     2,200
Sources2 Historical data and proposed ADP from National Highways Board,
October 1986, proposed maintenance from Kampax Road Maintenance
Study, 1986.



Table 2.3
PAKISTA
FOURTH HgrwHAY PROJECT
Allocation of Maintenance Expenditures on National Highways
1978/79   1986187
(Millions of Rupees)
Other
Period                      N-5         Karakoram   National
Highway       Highway    Highways       Total
1978-79                     12             20            6         38
1979-80                     19             19           10         48
1980-81                     26             24           12         62
1981-82                     27             25           14         66
1982-83                     31             25           17         73
1983-84                     30             24           18          72
1984-85                     41             26           32         99
1985-86                     48             36           36        120
1986-87                     65             38           47        150
(Budget)
Sonrces Data supplied by National Highway Board.



-56-                       Table 2.4
PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Perspective Development Plan for National Highways, 1986-2000 a/
National             Length                                            Estimated Cost
Highway               kms                Planned Development             (Rs Million)
1. N-5               1762
(Karachi-                  (a) Additional Carriageway   1542 Km         11,600
Lahore-Peshawar                (New Construction)
-Torkham                   (b) Additional Carriageway   1000 Km           5,000
(Rehabilitation)
16,600
2. N-25               814      Rehabilitation, widening
(Karachi-                   to 20 ft and strengthening                    1,200
Quetta-Choman)
3. N-35               803      Minor improvements                              500
(KK Highway)
4. N-40               607      Rehabilitation, widening                      1,000
(Quetta-Taftan)             to 20 ft and strengthening
5. N-50               526      Rehabilitation, widening                        400
(Dikhan-                    to 20 ft and strengthening
Quetta)
6. N-55              1397      Rehabilitation, widening                      3,500
(Indus Highway)             to 20 ft and strengthening
7. N-65               384      Rehabilitation                                  300
(Sukkur-Quetta)
8. Bridges                     New construction                                500
9. Kohat and Lowari            New construction                              1,300
Tunnels
TOTAL                                                                    25,300
Annual Average Expenditure
Roads only                                                                1,678
Bridges
Tunnels                                                                      36
93
TOTAL
1,807
a/ Subject to revision in course of Seventh Plan preparatious.
Source: National Highway Board, October 1986.



PNtISTAII
FU0tT3 nMV P""OECT
Table I. N"loY  I BRID6E CONSTIUCTION
etaled Cost Table                               r.on
3.. costs                                      Totals focludint Costinuries               -----
(Local Currow Million)                                  (Local Currunev Killion)                 ".
- -  - - -------------  --------- -  --- - ----  - -------------  ------------   Cont   Fate.    Iross   tax
Ibit S?M      / 9/90 11 M   91      2/3 93/94 94/  Total    07/18 68/9 8Off "09/1 91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 Total   Rate (x.  Rte 
33=1      S        == = -- -=33  2=25 5 = :=S  ==   = ===- tS=                  == t S===2  = :_=_ _ 2=SS == 55_= ==  . __22
1. IllJStEIIT COSTS
A. CIVIL IlOiXS
1. NIH Y  CCISTFETISI            343.2 514.? 514.? 514.9 514.? 514.9 343.2 171.6 3i432.4  390.6 611.1 634.4 657.0 680.8 707.? 490.6 255.1 *427.6   0.1   0.5      0.12
2. SWIWVISIM                      15.2 22.8  22.8  22.6 22.8  22.6  15.2  7.6  151.7   17*3 2V.  293  29.4  30.5 31.3  22.0  11.5  197.9   0.1   0.5                 0
3. MECT WAGEMT                     2*5   3.6         3.6   3.8  3.B  2.5  1.3   25.1    2*9  4.4- 4.5  4.5  4.6  4.6  3.3  1.7   30.7   0.1   0.9                    0
4. WOEATIlS COSTS                 4*4  6.5  6.5  6.5  6.5  6.5  4.4  2.2   43.5    5.0  8.0  8.6  9.1  9.6  10.0  7.0  3.6   60.8   0.1  0.05                        0
Total                              365.3 547.9  47.t9 547.9 547.9 547.9 365.3 182*6 3WU2,   415.7 65l 6 675.7 7?0. t0.       754.4 523.0 271.9 4716.91
PAMISTW
Table 2. rIRTEEE 11   GVE1CMT PRUIM
Detealed Cst Table
Paramters
"W Costs                                     Totals Including Continecies                   --------------------
(Local Currewv Nilliow)                                (Local Currewt Mitlion)                p1w.
-------------------------------------------------   -------------------------         --------------------- Cant. For. Gross Tar
tbit 87/98 66/89 I/90 90/91 91192 92m  9394 94m  Total   97/U 93/9 99/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 @3J94 94/5 Total Rate Exch.  Rate
-=CT =2=22 rzzvz mzv11221182 2211=22
1. 11 SllET COSTS TS
A. I EAIM TERS                            0.7  3.9  3.9  3.9  0.7        -    -    -  13.1       0.7  4.8  5.1  5.4  0.9        -    -    -  t?.O    0.1  0.1        0.12
3. TEaIIIII ASSISTANIE                    2.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  2.0     -    -    - 39.9        2.3  13.9  14.?  14.4  2.5     -    -    -  47.3   0.1   0.I           0    ^
C. tMW0 T  i" WKnIewS                     0.6  3.4  3.4  3.4  0.6    -                _ - 11.4   0.6  4.0  4.0  4.1  0.7    -         -    -  13.5   0.1  0.8        ^.1 lI
Ih  S_T116 SIP                            2.2  13.1  13.1  13.1  2.2     -    -    - 435         2.5  16.0  17.1  18.2  3.3     -    -      - 57.0   0.1  O.05          0
.       v"t INIS                          2.*8  17.1  17.  17.1  2.8    -    -    - 56.9         3.2 20.3 21.2 22.0  3.8        -    -    -  70.6   0.1  0.5            0 ~
F.     1K1tI LIAtEIMEE ST                 0.5  3.   3.1   3.1  0.5    -    -    -  10.3    *.6  3.6  3.6  3.?  0.6              -    -    -  12.1   0.1  0.99        0,12
Total                                        6.8 52.5 52.5 52.5  6.8        -    -    - 175.2   10.0 62.6 65.3 67.9  117-          -    -    - 217.5



MISTM
FAul 183  FElET
Table 3. A1SISTlUCE TO WIMmIStiU
,tiled Cost Table
PsM costs                                    Totas uwludin CotUait_aes
(Local Curwv Killion)                                  (Local Cwimcr Klillion               Mm.
.......... - - -                                  r Cut. FM.  on   Tax
Ihst mm WAR  8NM    909   11 /m   nm        9 4m  Totl      873 SW9   PM       / 91/ 921/ 39394 t4M  Total itt   W.  tdo,
., =gig gigig        sws :23:: wiui 22222 32222 22222       22222 22222 :swsw g.g.g 22222 2222a     iii ing. s ,,#        22222Buz
1.  a   CUT
A. IEL  mISkIIE                 0.9  4.6  4.6  4.6  3.7    -    -    - 13.3            1.0   5.1   5 S.^  4.,           -      -20.6  0.0  0.83        0.12
t3  mm                          0.6  2.?  2.9  2.9  2.3    -    -    - 11.5            0.6  3.2  3.2  3.2  2.6    -    -    - I.?  0.0  0.38            0.12 OX
TOW                                1.S  7.5  7.5  7.5   6.0    -    -    - 29.8          t.6  8.2  6.3  0.4  6.9    -    -    - 13.5
mm wool
Table 4. amS SfET?1 FM"
Mailed Cost Table
o b   Cots                                  totas tInclWio  CAnti_ ses                        a
(wCal UUrrP Killion)                                 (loa] Curruav Nullim'        
_ _ _ _    _____  _ _----------               -                                                         Cont. For.  6rm Tax
thit  /M  NM  9/"0 91 919 W2/   3   9415 Totatl  7J/  MW O90 9                    m  r2993 3/4 945   tot Itte Exch.   atde
r    1 rsrtV swr  Tewr sr r sr  rz=z CT&.  C'.M...............   -r   rar:1rrr-   AM rssr r    wrr  =rs   r    sr rr   rsun s=r
U.  _11   cTS1                                                                                                                                                      g.
a.      c. USIStAEE              0.4  2.5  2.5  2.5  0.4    -    -    -  3.2          0.5  2.B  2.8  2.?  O.5    -    -    -  ?.3  0.0S  0.?               °
3. minI                          0.6  3.9  3.8  3.1  0.6    -    -    - 12.6           .7  4.2    2  4.3-4                                     0.3      0.12
t.     IiE mIS                   0.7  4.1  4.1  4.1  0.7    -             - 13.7      0.t  4.3  S.1  5.5  1.0    -    -            7.1  0.05 0.05          0
9.  _31933                       1.3 .24.9    -    -    -    -            - 26.2       1.4 29.1    -    -    -    -    -    - 30.5  0.05 0.01           0.12
Idd 3.0 33.2  10.4 10.4  1.7    -                                             -    -     30.    S.3 40.9  12.? 12.6  2.2    -    -    - n1.



-39-
Table 3.1(c)
PAKISTAI
FOURTH HIGWAY PROJCT
ProJect Coumts hv Ysar
(Local Currmew Nillion)
total
kws Costs                   ----------.   .-..
Local    (09
87/SB 8B/9/ 89/90 0/91 91/92 92/93 994 94/95 Curren   Nillion)
aaua aa agos ss.aa  same gaus axs=     gauui aasasUi
A. HIGhAY I BRIDG CONSTRETION      365.3 547,9 547,9 547*9 547.9 547.9 365*3 182.4  3652.7   29.9
B. MINTE1WICE IWROHEENT" PROBRAM     18 525 52.5  52.5  8.8    -    -    -    175.2    10.1
C. ASSISTANCE TO SALUCNISTAN         1.5  7.5  7.5  7.5  6.0    -    -    -         29.8     1.7
e ROkW  SAFETY PROSRA                3.0 35.2 10.4 10.4  1*7    -    -    -         60.8     3.5
Tota 1bELINE COSTS                   378.4 643.2 618.3 618.3 564.4 547.9 365.3 182.6  39918,5   225.2
Phical Contingmncies               37*6 62.2 60.9 60,9 56.1 54.8 36.5 18,3    387.3    22.3
Price Cntindmncies                 14.4 57.0, 82.3 10.7 126.0 151.7 121.2 n.0    733.2    37.2
Total PROJECt COSTS                  430,6 762.3 761.5 788.t 746.4 754.4 523.0 271.9  5.039.0   284,7
Sao      amus# =M        -  aemm     X        =
Txes                               47.*6 79.8 79.2 81.9 82*9 84.9 58.9 30.6    545.8    30.8
Foreign Exchan9                   218.7 367.4 370.8 374.5 349*5 348.8 240.7 124.*6  2.394,9   135.3
April 15, 1907 12:27
PISTAII
FOURTH BIlwI   PRORJECT
Smra  Accoant by Project Coamot
(Local Currencv Nillion)
Phcsicl
HIGAY I    AINTENANCE                  ROWD           Continimnci
BRIGE    IMPM         ASSISTANCE TO SAFETY
CNTRUION   PROGRAM        ALUCI4ISTAN  PRMOA   Total     2   Amont
-asusinina               a_assawas  magm   amas   3333   -
Is INUESTME  COSTS
A. CIVIL VOW                  3.432,4           -             -       - 3,432.4  10.0  343.2
St TECHNICAL SERVICES           176.0       107.1          18.3     8.3   310.6  9.*6   29.7
C. ECUIPIMT PIOW#                   -        11.4          11.5    12.6    35.5   6.6    2.3
8. ORTIN COSTS                   43.5        43*5             -    13.7   100.8   9.3    9.4
Es DIUINIiS                        -        13.1             -    26.2    39.3   6*7    2.6
Total INVESTE  COSTS             3652.7        175.2          29.8    60.8 3,918.5   99  387.3
Total BAIN  COSTS                 3,652.7       175.2          29.8    60.8 3,918.5   9.9  387.3
Physical Contingcies             365.3        17.5          15      3.0   387.3   0.0    0.0
Price Continuies                 698.9        24.8           2.2     7.3   733.2   9*0   66.2
otoal PROJECT  COS                4716.9        217.5          33.5    71.1 59039*0   9*0  453.6
Tam                              531.3         5.1           4.0     5.4   545.8   9.0    9.2
Foreign xchn                   2,241.5       102.1'         29.4    21.9 2394.9   9.0  2155
____f f llf         m l  fl ff                               *_.     -   .......................... __ ......................



-60-                              Table 3.2
PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1/
IBRD Fiscal Year & Calendar Year            Cumulative Disbursements at
Quarter Ending                       End of Quarter
US$ Millions             X
FY88    September 1987                            0.0                0.0
December 1987                             3.0                2.0
March 1988                                6.8               4.5
June 1988                                10.6                7.0
FY89    September 1988                           16.0               10.5
December 1988                            21.3               14.0
March 1989                               27.4               18.0
June 1989                                33.4               22.0
FY90    September 1989                           41.0               27.0
December 1989                            48.6              32.0
March 1990                               56.2               37.0
June 1990                                63.8               42.0
FY91    September 1990                           71.4               47.0
December 1990                            79.0               52.0
March 1991                               86.6               57.0
June 1991                                94.2               62.0
FY92    September 1991                          101.1               66.5
December 1991                           107.9               71.0
March 1992                              114.0               75.0
June 1992                               120.1               79.0
FY93    September 1992                          124.6               82.0
December 1992                           129.2               85.0
March 1993                              133.8               88.0
June 1993                               138.3               91.0
FY94    September 1993                          141.4               93.0
December 1993                           144.4               95.0
March 1994                              146.7               96.5
June 1994                               149.0               98.0
FY95    September 1994                          150.5               99.0
December 1994                           152.0              100.0
The project is expected to be completed by June 1994 and the loan to be
closed in December 1994.
1/ Based on the South Asia Transportation Disbursement Profile.
Source: Mission Estimates.



-61-
Table 4.1
PAKISTAN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Average Annual Daily Traffic and Growth Rates by Highway Segment
and Type of Traffic, 1985, 1985-90 and 1990-2000
Average Annual Traffic Growth Rate
1985          1985-90           1990-2000
Section      Highway           1985      Percent
Segment          AADT       Truck    Car   Bus  Truck   Car   Bus  Total
1,2          Km13-Km48         8122        69      7.5   6.5   8.0    6.5   5.5   7.0
1,2          Km48-Kml48        6700        66      7.5   6.5   8.0    6.5   5.5   7.0
3a, 3bt 4    Kml7O-Km354       5760        65      7.1   5.8   6.1    7.1   5.8   6.1
3            Km935-Km967       3854        29      6.5   6.5   7.7    5.1   5.0   6.8
5            Km967-Km983       1741        30      6.5   6.5   7.7    5.0   5.0   6.8
5            Km983-Km1032      3754        43      6.5   6.5   7.7    5.0   5.0   6.8
6            Rm1327-K1063    3101          54      6.5   6.5   7.7    5.0   5.0   6.8
6            Km1065-Kml367    3028         55      6.5   6.5   7.7    5.0   5.0   6.8
7a, 7b, 8    Kml327-Kml342    5584         39      6.2   6.2   7.4    5.0   5.0   6.8
7a, 7b, 8    Xm1342-Kml397    8853         35      6.2   6.2   7.4    5.0   5.0   6.8
7a, 7b, 8    Km1397-Km1421    4528         50      6.2   6.2   7.4    5.0   5.0   6.8
Source: Consultants' technical and economic feasibility studies.



-62-                                                Table 4.2
PAKISTAN
*FOUTrH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Highway Section 5
Ecososc Cuts by H1isy Contract sctlon                        Ecanosltc #"its by Uf   Contract   tim
Year                       .._....  .........n_                                              .
112  ,j4,4         S        &  7a,7,68   total               312  a,1,4          5       4  74,7b,6   totWl
..... ...........                                     .......... .._.
M9               54.9     t.0    84.0   112.4   275.4   526.9                           9.9                       44.1 4U.)
19               45.1    52.5    64.9   232.1   355.9   78862                           0.0    22.4    36.9   119.9   179.4
1M              175.4   227.9    64.9   175.6   179.7   642.0                 21.2      L.      52.4    69.2   152.*   394.4
1e              la.1     6".3    84.9      9.2      3.4   44.0               45.4    9.        ".2    67.2   162.3   565.
991              61.2   189.6       1.3     0.2      3.4   274.9              199.3  1 1.1       153.9   9.2   171.4   415.1
£M               14.3    62.6      1.3      0.2      3.4   191.8             143.7   194.2   14.3    111.2   161.4   46.3
1993              1.4      2.1      1.3     9.2      3.4      6.4             34.9   112.0   176.1   123.2   191.7  m7.
199               1.4      2.1     1.3      0.2      3.4      6.4             194.2   130.5  1£.9   1332    291.4   649.2
39"9              1.4    20.9       :.3     9.2      3.4    24.3             224.3   125.8   2W7.    147.2   25.S   921.6
19%              4.1    17.2    57.4    14.3         3.4   132.4             258.4   134.8   219.6   145.9   227.9        9.9
1991              1.4    17.2       1.3     0.2      3.4    23.5             292.7   £4.    235.2   162.9   24.9  £191.3
996               1.4      8.6      1.3     0.2      3.4    34.9             328.4   164.0   24.4   20.6   253.9  315.9
199               1.4      2.1      1.3     6.2      3.4      6.4             34.6    19.5   256.8   216.4   26 I. 12.
2999              1.4      2.1     1.3      *.2    61.4    t5.9               49.1    396.9   255.7   23.5   246.3  W334.5
halvae  alu                                                                   338.9   79.2   139.9   347.9   043.3  2162.3
otal uWniKOuatof  493.5   811.5    45.31   537.2   99.4  3241.2                 2923.1  2192.4  2379.9  2172.0  3343.1  132.1
Total disonted      397.5   495.3   277.9   413.2   483.8  2279.4                99.    4.1    83W.6   73.3  1223.5  4359.4
at 12 Wecat
Eceawc Net Wa4sts by Niga  Cotract Section
312  la,3b,4       5        4  7a,7b,8   total
.__ ........ . . .. .. ........ ....................... . ....._ .  _.o ....... _.._
£967            -54.9      0.9    -n4.9  -112.4  -231.3  -484.0
1988            -.3.7   -52.5   -61.4  -195.2  -234.0   -.98.6
1989           -154.2    ''.q    -31.J4    '95.6   -2 .1       .2
1m0             .47    -91.5    30.2    87.9   35.9    49.9
l19              29.1   -97.7   332.4    99.9   348.2   349.1
1M              121.4    23.4   145.5   111.9   179.0   563.4
1993            14.      109.9   174.8   123.9   168.3   744.5
14              194.8   136.4   187.4   135.9   396.    931.7
199             224.9   395.8   295.7   347.9   212.1   69s,5
£"4             218.3   119.4   142.4   15.7    224.5   67.5
1997            291.3   £32.4   233.9   162.7   237.5  1977.6
1t9             321.2   ;55.4   247.3   29.4   259.5   1901.#
1m              A4.4    176.4   257.5   218.4   244.9  1264.5
29              407.7   194.8   254.4   234.3   294.7  1392.4
Silva"  valw    336.0   702.2   130.9   347.9   443.3  2142.3
Total   daiKsmtd  222.2  1589.9  1£94.6  1645.8  2436.5  9749.2
Total isowted    531.5   340.8   555.9   321.9   539.7  219.9
at 12 pecrtct
Interna  rate of     29.4   13.0    41.1    23.4    26.4    27.1
r teCt
Swgce  Cenulltants sconen  s  tecbnlta1 fsilNltlitv stuie



-63-
Table 4.3
PAKISTA
FOURTH HICGHAY PROJECT
Econmoic Rates of Return
Under Alternative SensitivitZ Analyses
(percent)
Benefits
Reduced by
Contract                                      Benefits  Costs       202 and Costs
Section                                 Base  Reduced   Increased  Increased
Number     Highway Segment             Case  201        202        by 202
1 & 2      Karachi-Hyderabad             30     24          25          20
3a,3b 4/a  Byderabad-laushero Ferose    18      13          14           9
5        Multan-Nianchannu             41     34          35          28
6        Mianchannu-sahival            24     19          20          1S
7a,7b 8    Gujranwala-Kharian            26     20          21          16
Mean           27     21          22           17
/a  Waiting for revised economic analysis for these sections to be forwarded
by Engineering Consultants.
Source: World Bank analysis of Consultants' Technical and Economic
Feasibility Study and Revisions.



MAP SECTION



68                                                   7?J     
/             -I,F^
PAKISTAN                                                                                 uit
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Roads to be Rehbilitated under:
Fourth Highway Project
Thir4d Hghw,y Project
Extent of Pilot-Scle Highway Patrol
o Balucistotn C & W Heodquotrten              A,. *
) f   Chenob BHdge                                                      d                 Muzorabd
N    No1iol Highways                                  TorkI tO       Nowshero    / )
- Provnck  Roods                                                                  .\ .....        AND
Roilways                                                      SA LA                             KASHMR
&SAfBAD
-~Airport
Rivens
69   Ntonodl Copital
s    Province Capitols
Province Boundatries
Internotional Boundories
d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3=C                  1e Bndg 0SIotsot
32~~~~~~~~C
e~~dhar4e ~ ~ Sart,
=S  J        tt                            t g Ipu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pr 
2ff
$.   /,   t                   (                             I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N    D    I   A
z   <;a   < wt                    l                                        o    50    IrJo   asc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D    5
Nab                                                                            J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
Se                               (9-   X   _PAKISTAN
2'~~~~~~r 24~_-,-~,, A)|5,,9   C
r~~~~9  N...Y                                       &SIU~~~~~~~~~~MLCHJSAN
.,.,. tn.   wna dv.,.,a 5. eute. aV/                             I 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a   ,h, ce   ,  M.                      X   _ . .... a w l a   m  coin_..........  



