Report No. PIC3633
Project Name                    Kyrgyz Republic-Financial Sector...
Adjustment Credit
Region                          Europe and Central Asia
Sector                          Finance
Project ID                      KGPA34095
Principal Responsible Entity   National Bank of Kyrgyz Republic
Date This PID Prepared         April 24, 1996
Appraisal Date                  March 26, 1996
Projected Board Date            June , 1996
Country and Sector Background
I.   Before 1991, the Kyrgyz financial system was a regional component
of the Soviet financial system which mobilized and allocated resources
according to the decisions of the Union government in Moscow. In June
1991, the first set of financial sector reforms was introduced with the
establishment of a two-tier banking system, with the National Bank of
Kyrgyzstan (NBK), the central bank, created under the supervision of
Parliament. In December 1992, a comprehensive Central Bank Law and a
Commercial Banking Law were enacted, giving independence to NBK. In
1993, the NBK assumed an even more important role for the conduct of
monetary policy with the introduction of the national currency. At the
same time, a fully liberal currency law was enacted, and a full range of
indirect monetary policy instruments was introduced. In addition,
weekly foreign exchange sales by the NBK to the interbank market,
regular treasury bill auctions, and credit auctions were launched.
Reserve requirements were unified in July 1993, and a Lombard facility
was introduced in August 1993.
II. At present, the Kyrgyz financial system consists of NBK, 17
commercial banks, and a savings bank. The "Big Four" specialized banks
(Agroprombank, AKB Kyrgyzstan, Promstroi, and Elbank) dominate the
financial system, accounting for over 80% of the banking system's
assets. Though money and capital markets are underdeveloped, there are
also a number of non-bank financial institutions. These include 17
investment funds, 30 insurance companies, a stock exchange (KSE), a
Coupon (privatization) Trading Center (CTC), and two significant pension
funds. In 1993, as a part of its liberalization program, the NBK began
to license foreign exchange bureaus to buy and sell foreign currencies
for a range of current account transactions. There are currently 14
licensed bureaus operating in the Kyrygz Republic.
III. After the breakup of the Soviet Union, inflation in the Kyrgyz
Republic accelerated rapidly and, over a relatively short period, the
real value of bank deposits was massively eroded by negative real
interest rates. Following the introduction of the Som in May 1993,
considerable success has been achieved in macro-financial stability,
with inflation falling to an annual rate of 30% by 1995.     Interest rates
have turned substantially positive since end-1993. Deposit growth,



however, has lagged behind the growth of money supply. There has been
practically no injection of new funds into the banking system. The
failure of deposits to grow in the face of high positive real interest
rates reflects a widespread lack of confidence in the banking system.
The failure of Kyrgyz banks to mobilize deposits is clearly linked to
the sector's insolvency problems.
IV. Because of the systemic deficiencies in the financial system, the
formal financial sector in the Kyrgyz Republic has not been an effective
vehicle for mobilizing financial resources and allocating these to their
most efficient uses.   The M2/GDP ratio is, at 12%, among the lowest in
the world, and indicates the low level of savings and financial
intermediation.
The Country's Financial Sector Adjustment Program
V.   An efficient financial sector, with an effective banking system at
its core, is essential to support and foster the Kyrgyz Republic's
stabilization and structural adjustment efforts. The Government's
objective is to develop and deepen the financial system, restore public
confidence, and to establish, over the medium term, an efficient system
of resource mobilization and allocation which would become increasingly
liberal and market-oriented and offer a greater variety of instruments
to both borrowers and savers.
VI. The proposed strategy for financial sector reform in the Kyrgyz
Republic contains the following key elements: (i) creation of a policy
and regulatory environment conducive to the sound growth of a
competitive and efficient private banking system; (ii) liquidation of
the two insolvent state-owned banks; (iii) downsizing and financial
restructuring through private recapitalization of two other former state
banks, survival of which has been possible only through preferential
treatment and support of the Central Bank; (iv) creation of a temporary
Debt Resolution Agency (DEBRA) to help collect or write off the old non-
performing loans, and thus accelerate enterprise restructuring or
liquidation in the process; and (v) creation of a regulatory and
supervisory framework, and supporting policies and infrastructure, for
the development and growth of emerging non-bank financial institutions
(NBFIs).
VII. The successful implementation of the reform program to be supported
by FINSAC will require substantial technical assistance to help
implement bank restructuring and liquidation, resolve problem loans,
strengthen bank supervision, establish a national program of skills
development in commercial banks, train bankers in international
accounting standards and auditing, develop prudential regulations and
supervision for non-bank financial institutions, and refine legal and
regulatory requirements. The Government has agreed that a comprehensive
and fully-funded TA program will accompany the proposed FINSAC
operation. At a recent special donors' conference on FINSAC TA, chaired
by NBK, funding arrangements for the technical assistance were largely
firmed up. An IDA Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project for the
overall Program is being submitted to the Board for consideration
simultaneously with the proposed FINSAC.
- 2-



Features of the Proposed Credit
VIII.         The proposed Credit (FINSAC) would support the Government's
Financial Sector Development Program, maintaining the momentum of
stabilization and adjustment programs and, along with other donor
assistance, helping to close the financing gaps of the balance of
payments and the budget.
IX. The Credit would be disbursed in two equal tranches. The first
tranche would become available on Credit effectiveness, and the second
tranche twelve months later. The Credit will finance all eligible
imports into the country, except items on a small agreed negative list.
The Credit would be on standard IDA terms, with a 35-year maturity,
including 10 years of grace.
X.   The project is in Environment Category C.     It does not envision the
resettlement of any indigenous peoples. Poverty Category is not
applicable.
XI. The National Bank of Kyrgyzstan will have responsibility for the
overall management of the program. A FINSAC Monitoring Unit (FMU) will
be established in the NBK to facilitate and coordinate implementation of
the reform program. The FMU will submit reports to IDA one month after
the end of each quarter, reporting progress in implementation and
identifying bottlenecks. The FMU will maintain records of all
transactions under the Credit in accordance with sound accounting
practices.
Contact Point:        The World Bank
F. Aynur Sumer, EC3AI, Sr. Financial Economist
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)473-4208
Fax No.: (202)477-3291
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



