-7
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6891-KG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 31.2 MILLION
TO
THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
MAY 31, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 31, 1996)
Currency Unit = Somn
I Som    =  US$ .093
US$1    =  10.8 Somn
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Somn per US$1
1993       1994       1995   March 1996
Period Average       6.0        11.0       10.8        10.8
End of Period        8.3        10.6       11.2        10.8
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Systemn
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB  - Asian Development Bank
APEAC  - Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit
BRU  - Bank Restructuring Unit
BSD  - Bank Supervision Department
CAS  - Country Assistance Strategy
CTC  - Coupon Trading Center
DEBRA  - Debt Resolution Agency
DRU  - Debt Recovery Unit
ERRA  - Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency
ESAF  - Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FINSAC  - Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FSU  - Former Soviet Union
GDP  - Gross Domestic Product
GNP  - Gross National Product
IAS  - International Accounting Standards
ICB  - International Competitive Bidding
IDA  - International Development Association
IFC  - International Finance Corporation
IMF  - International Monetary Fund
JSC  - Joint Stock Company
KSC  - Kyrgyz Stock Exchange
MIGA  - Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOF  - Ministry of Finance
MOJ - Ministry of Justice
NBFI - Non-Bank Financial Institution
NBK  - National Bank of Kyrgyzstan
PESAC  - Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
PMU  - Project Management Unit
PPF  - Project Preparation Facility
SDR  - Special Drawing Rights
SAS  - State Agency for Securities
SPF  - State Property Fund
TA  - Technical Assistance
USAID  - United States Agency for International Development
VAT  - Value Added Tax
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| officialduties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (FINSAC)
PRESIDENT'S REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT SUMMARY  ..............................................  i
PART I.   MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND
FINANCING REQUIREMENTS  .............              ..1................... 
A.    Macroeconomic Stabilization and Performance ...................... 1
B.    Structural Reforms ....................................... 3
C.    External Financing Requirements .............................. 4
PART II.      THE FINANCIAL SECTOR: KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE  ..... 5
A.    Sector Structure ......................................... 5
B.    Financial Market Developments and Key Issues ..................... 6
C. Sector Performance.                                                            8
PART III.  PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM.                                 9
A. Objectives and Strategy.                                                       9
B.  The Enabling Policy Environment .10
C.  Legal and Regulatory Environment .12
D.    Restructuring Old Insolvent Specialized Banks .16
E.  Resolving The Bad Debt Problem .24
F.  Encouraging The Development of NBFIs .27
PART IV.  FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT .30
A.  Borrower and Credit Amount .30
B.  Technical Assistance Requirements .30
C.     Disbursement  .........................................    31
D.  Management, Reporting and Auditing .31
E.    Monitorable Actions and Tranche Release Conditions .31
PART V. BENEFITS AND RISKS .34
This report is based on the findings of Preappraisal and Appraisal Missions which visited Bishkek in
December 1995 and April 1996, respectively. The missions were comprised of Ms. F. Aynur Sumer,
Mission Leader and Task Manager (EC3AI), Ms. Ulgenerk (EMTPS), Mr. du Marais (LEGPS) and
Messrs. Polizatto, Wills, Brown and Satterfield (Consultants). The Peer Reviewers were Mr. Gelb
(WDR), Mr. Pohl (EMTPS), and Mr. Murgatroyd (FSD). Mr. Michael A. Gould and Mr. Yukon Huang
are the managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively.



PART VI.         RECOMMENDATION    ..................................  35
FINSAC POLICY  MATRIX   ...............................  36
ANNEXES
A.   Key Economic Indicators  ...................................  42
B.   Financial Sector Indicators  ..................................  49
C.   Estimated First Year Costs of Bank Liquidation and Restructuring   ....              .....  55
D.   DEBRA Key Operating Principles ..............................  59
E.   Recent Developments in Big Four Banks ..........................  68
F.    Letter of Financial Sector Development Policy  ......................  74
G.   Timetable of Key Project Processing Events  .......................  87
H.   Status of Bank Group and IFC Operations in the Kyrgyz Republic ....                 ...... 88
1.  Supervision Plan . ......................................... 90
MAP            IBRD 26822



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (FINSAC)
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 The Kyrgyz Republic
Executing Agency:         The National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic
Amount:                   SDR 31.2 million (US$45 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms with a 35 years maturity
Credit Objectives:        The principal objectives of the Reform Program to be supported by the
proposed Credit are: (i) the creation of a policy and regulatory
environment conducive to the sound growth of a competitive and efficient
banking system; (ii) the liquidation of the two dominant and insolvent
state-owned banks, which through their practices stifle the growth of
their young private competitors; (iii) the downsizing and financial
restructuring through private re-capitalization of two others, survival of
which has been possible only through preferential treatment and support
of the Central Bank; (iv) the establishment of a temporary Debt
Resolution Agency (DEBRA) to help collect or write off the old non-
performing loans, and thus accelerate enterprise restructuring or
liquidation in the process; and (v) the creation of a regulatory and
supervisory framework for the development and growth of emerging
non-bank financial institutions.
Credit Description:       The credit will be quick-disbursing and will provide balance of
payments and budget support, linked to the conditionality specified for
first and second tranche releases. The first tranche will become available
upon credit effectiveness, expected in July/August 1996, and the second
tranche upon a review, satisfactory to IDA, of successful implementation
of the Reform Program as a whole and fulfillment of the specific tranche
release conditions. The proceeds of the credit will be used for financing
the foreign exchange costs of general imports, except for a small
negative list of ineligible goods.
Benefits:                 The proposed Credit would allow increased production and capacity
utilization through the provision of foreign exchange resources to finance
imports of inputs, raw materials, spare parts and services. The Reform
Program to be supported by the proposed Credit would help create a



- ii -
competitive, sound and efficient banking system. This, together with a
sound policy and regulatory framework and appropriate prudential norns
and regulations, would help to improve public confidence in financial
institutions. Enforcement of financial discipline resulting from the
reforms in the banking system would encourage a similar discipline
within the enterprise sector, fostering a healthy adjustment and renewed
growth in this sector, which in turn would contribute to the stabilization
objective. In addition, the development and enforcement of a regulatory
and supervisory framework along with a supporting policy environment
would encourage the development of sound contractual savings
organizations which would be instrumental in mobilizing additional
savings. Technical assistance to be provided in parallel to the Credit
would contribute to the development of technical capacity in banking and
financial management and would reinforce the implementation of the
Reform Program as a whole.
Risks:                     The  Credit faces  four major risks.   (i) The  Government
may not be able to achieve one of its critical macroeconomic objectives,
namely to sustain macroeconomic stability. High and sustained budget
deficits may continue to threaten macro/financial stability and drive up
interest rates further. (ii) The second risk relates to the complexity of
undertaking a massive restructuring of the banking system which requires
not only the strong commitment of the Government but also the full
cooperation of the banks' managements.  (iii) The liquidation and
downsizing of banks may proceed more slowly than anticipated, if the
bank restructuring component encounters political resistance. (iv) A
slowdown or reversal in enterprise reform would have adverse effects on
the loan quality of the banking system, and so would delays in the
establishment of a framework for secured lending.
The first, third and fourth risks would be mitigated largely by the
Government's strong commitment to the IMF/IDA supported stabilization
and structural adjustment programs. Technical assistance to be provided
along with the Credit would help to reduce the second risk, although it
would not fully mitigate it. Finally, proposed improvement of the
regulatory framework and strengthening of supervisory functions for
banks and non-bank financial institutions are expected to ensure the
competitiveness, efficiency, and soundness of the financial system in the
future.
Disbursement:              The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed in two equal tranches:
SDR 15.6 million (US$22.5 million) equivalent soon after credit
effectiveness and SDR 15.6 million (US$22.5 million) equivalent after
a performance review expected to be carried out by IDA about seven
months after Credit effectiveness.
Poverty Category:          Not applicable
Rate of Return:            Not applicable
Credit ID:                 KG-PA-34095



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
1.           I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC) to the Kyrgyz Republic for the equivalent of SDR 31.2
million (US$45 million) to provide financial support for the Government's Financial Sector Adjustment
Program (FSAP) during 1996-97.
2.           The Kyrgyz Republic has been one of the most rapidly reforming countries in the former
Soviet Union (FSU).  Since 1992, the Government has made significant progress in achieving
macroeconomic stability and eliminating market imperfections inherited from the previous command
economy. These reforms have been supported by a Rehabilitation Credit (FY93) and two adjustment
operations, the Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (PESAC), and Agricultural
Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit (APEAC) from IDA, and successive IMF arrangements
in the upper credit tranches. The proposed FINSAC is consistent with the high-case scenario of the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) as discussed by the Board of Directors on June 28, 1995.
3.            The proposed FINSAC follows the successful privatization of most Kyrgyz productive
assets, and key reforms in leading real sectors. At this stage of the transformation process, a more stable
and efficient financial sector, with an effective banking system at its core, will be essential to help sustain
macroeconomic stability, stimulate savings mobilization, support enterprise recovery and expansion, and
enhance the development of the private sector. The principal objectives of the Reform Program to be
supported by the proposed FINSAC are: (i) to improve the enabling policy and regulatory environment
for the development of a sound, competitive and market-oriented banking system, by eliminating policy-
induced barriers to competition, efficiency and profitability and by strengthening prudential laws and
regulations, accounting and auditing, and payments and settlements systems; (ii) to liquidate or restructure
the four dominant insolvent specialized banks, and assist with the establishment of a competitive and
efficient private banking system which is sound and capable of providing a broader range of financial
services to both borrowers and savers; (iii) to help collect part of the non-performing loans extended by
these banks, and thus accelerate enterprise restructuring or liquidation in the process; and (iv) to promote
the development and growth of emerging non-bank financial institutions. The proposed Credit will be
quick-disbursing and will provide balance of payments and budget support, linked to the conditionality
specified for first and second tranche releases.
PART I. MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
A. Macroeconomic Stabilization and Performance
4.           Introduction. The Kyrgyz Republic continues to cope with severe economic dislocations
caused by the breakdown in FSU trade and budget support arrangements. Trade and production are about
one-half their previous levels, while the price of imported energy has increased substantially since 1991.



- 2 -
Budget support from the former Soviet Union, previously equal to about 10% of GDP, has been only
partially replaced by external borrowing and grants. Yet the Government has made significant progress
in stabilizing the economy and has remained essentially in compliance with the IMF programs approved
to date - an initial Stand-by arrangement in 1993 and a three-year ESAF program in 1994, of which the
second year program was approved in December 1995. The Government is also engaged in a far-
reaching program of structural reforms aimed at creating a market economy and transferring almost all
productive assets into private hands.
5.           Political. President Akaev has been a strong proponent of economic reforms in the past
and is committed to continuing the process of transforming the economy.  His political position was
recently strengthened when he won re-election to a second five-year term, with a 75% majority, in
December 1995. He is likely to become even more central to policy direction in the future, in view of
overwhelming support in the February 1996 referendum for changes to the constitution. As a result of
the referendum, the President now enjoys broadened powers to issue decrees and increased authority over
the Prime Minister, who must now report directly to the President. These enhanced powers are expected
to speed up the adoption of economic reforms. They may, however, also diminish the checks and
balances within the Government, as well as between the Government and the Parliament.
6.           Production and Employment. Production is currently 45% below its level in 1991.
GNP per capita has fallen commensurately and was estimated at US$610 in 1994. Output began to
recover in 1995, however, led by modest growth in crop production and by the establishment of a
growing private service sector. Also, the decline in industrial production is believed to have bottomed
out, as companies that survived the effects of lost markets and tight credit during the previous year began
to stabilize production. Preliminary data suggest that overall GDP grew by 1.2% in 1995, and indications
are good for growth of 2-3% in 1996. Employment data are highly uncertain, due to the growth of
unrecorded activity and net emigration. Officially, only about 75,000 people are registered to receive
unemployment benefits, representing about 3% of the work force. However, four to five times this
number are believed to have been laid off as a result of industrial restructuring during the past two years.
The average real wage has remained stagnant during the past two years at about 50% below its 1992
level.
7.           Money, Credit and Prices.  The Kyrgyz authorities assumed full control over
macroeconomic policies with the introduction of the national currency, the Som, in May 1993. During
1994, deposit and credit interest rates were liberalized, directed credits were discontinued, refinance
credit auctions were temporarily suspended, and domestic bank financing of the budget deficit was sharply
curtailed. All prices, including bread, have been liberalized, except utility tariffs which remain highly
subsidized. The tight monetary stance in 1994 succeeded in bringing inflation down to around 3% per
month in the second half of 1994, and to about 87% annually by year-end. Inflation remained in the 1-
2% per month range during 1995, with the annual rate of inflation down to 30% by year-end. Interest
rates have followed a similar path, with real interest rates declining from over 200% in August 1994 to
around 30% in December 1995. The monetary stance eased somewhat during 1995, permitting a modest
increase in the amount of money in circulation and providing some relief to a cash-strapped economy.
8.           Public Finances. Government expenditure has undergone severe compression during the
past three years, with total expenditure declining from 37% of GDP in 1993 to 27% in 1995. This was
accomplished through the elimination of consumer subsidies, a reduction in transfers and the phase-out
of direct lending to state enterprises. At the same time, however, the receipt of budgetary support grants
- previously provided from the Soviet Union - fell by 8 % of GDP. As a result, the budget deficit has



- 3 -
remained high throughout the period, declining only from 13% of GDP in 1993 to 11% in 1995. The
bulk of the deficit continues to be financed through foreign borrowings and the balance through central
bank credit, which remains a source of concern both for sustaining the stabilization program and for
improving conditions in the financial markets.
9.            External Transactions. As part of its stabilization program, the Government established
a foreign exchange auction market, a floating exchange rate, and a fully liberalized exchange regime with
no restrictions on current or capital account transactions. A major liberalization of the trade regime also
occurred. Non-tariff barriers were removed, and export taxes have been eliminated on all goods. A
uniform 10% duty on non-FSU imports replaced the former Soviet tariff, and free trade agreements exist
with the Kyrgyz Republic's main FSU trading partners. Both imports and exports began to recover in
1995, while the current account deficit, including official transfers, declined from 11% of GDP to 7%
last year. Gross reserves currently stand at about 2 months of imports.
B. Structural Reforms
10.          Since 1992, the Government has been implementing a comprehensive reform program
aimed at creating a market economy. In addition to the above-mentioned reforns in the areas of price
liberalization, trade and exchange regimes, the Government has focused on implementing a
comprehensive privatization and enterprise restructuring adjustment program, including land and state
farms.
11.          Privatization. The privatization program began with the transfer of the housing stock
to the occupants in 1991-93 and the cash sale of small businesses. In December 1993, a Privatization
Law was adopted that aims at divesting all productive and social assets. Initially, the majority of shares
in some enterprises were transferred free of charge to the workers' collectives. Since May 1994,
however, the Government has implemented a new "mass privatization" scheme which aims to ensure a
wider distribution of ownership in medium and large scale enterprises, those with over 100 employees,
through the use of coupon and cash auctions. The new procedures have significantly improved the
transparency and equity of the privatization process. As of March 1996, the mass privatization program
had put over 900 medium and large scale enterprises through the coupon stage of the program. Of these
900 enterprises, state shares in about 450 enterprises have been completely sold. With the aim of
speeding up full divestiture in the other 450 enterprises, the Government recently reaffirmed its policy
of selling shares in the second round of cash auctions without reference to a minimum floor price. It has
also approved the 1996-97 privatization program which will cover the remaining medium and large scale
enterprises in the conmmercial and productive sectors (about 320). As part of the program, it will also
offer up to 10 percent of shares in the major utilities through coupon auctions.
12.          The issue of private ownership of land is still under debate in the Kyrgyz Republic.
There is consensus, however, that the right to use land should be legally safeguarded and transformed
into a property right that can be freely transferred, inherited and used as collateral. The right to use land
for 99 years has been established by Presidential decree, and a new Land Code is under preparation that
will confirm these rights. Land use shares in agricultural land are being issued throughout the Republic
and have led to the breakup of most state farms and collectives. A new land registration law that covers
the registration of all land, rural and urban, will soon be submitted to Parliament. Once approved, the
legal conditions will exist for the emergence of a market in land use rights.



-4 -
13.          Enterprise Restructuring. The Govermnent has also created a special program to isolate
29 of the most seriously indebted enterprises. These enterprises were cut off from access to bank credit
and put under the control of an Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency (ERRA). Following diagnostic
assessment of their economic prospects, five of the enterprises without current or potential economic
viability are being fully liquidated, while others have undergone massive downsizing and financial
restructuring. The restructured enterprises have been given working capital and a period of six-to-nine
months to demonstrate their financial viability, after which they are to be privatized, with the proceeds
used for paying off the creditors of the former enterprises. The success of this program has been widely
recognized in the Kyrgyz Republic as a demonstration of how the bankruptcy and liquidation process is
supposed to work in a market economy.
14.          Social Protection.  Regarding the system of social protection, in January 1995 the
Government introduced a common monthly subsidy scheme to replace the previous social assistance
benefits of various kinds. It is based on the principles of income testing and self-selection and is aimed
to raise the per capita income of the non-working poor to the minimum wage level. The Government
also rationalized and simplified unemployment benefits and allocated adequate budget funds to provide
social protection for the unemployed.
C. External Financing Requirements
15.          Over the medium term, the Republic's primary objective is to reverse the sharp decline
in output, improve the country's export capacity and reduce its dependence on imported energy, so as
to move toward a sustainable balance of payments position. The aim for 1996-98 is to achieve real GDP
growth of at least 4% per year, and to reduce annual inflation to single digit levels.
16.          Fiscal Outlook. The Government's medium-term program is underpinned by a rapid
fiscal adjustment in 1996 with the aim of reducing the fiscal deficit to 6% of GDP, mainly through
reductions in expenditures. A major tax reform is being developed, with the assistance of the IMF, that
aims at the development of a simple and transparent tax system consisting of a relatively small number
of important taxes with a relatively broad base, including a uniform 20% VAT. The medium-term
revenue outlook is clouded, however, by the announcement that the Kyrgyz Republic intends to join the
Russia-Belarus-Kazakstan customs union, which would result in the adoption of a common external tariff
based on the Russian tariff. Care will be needed to ensure that revenue is not lost in the transition from
the old to the new tax structure and that participation in the customs union is not detrimental to Kyrgyz
production and growth. Expenditure rationalization will also begin, but while there is scope for
significant savings over the medium term, savings in the short term will be difficult to achieve, as
expenditures have already been severely compressed in real terms. The total amount of extemal financing
available for the budget has been falling rapidly due to the scaling back of the initial burst of support
received at the outset of the transition period. It has declined from 14% of GDP in 1993 to 7% in 1994
and 1995. For 1996, gross external financing (including grants) is estimated at only 4.7% of GDP. Net
of amortization, external financing is estimated at only 2.5% of GDP in 1996. The above fiscal program
excludes the cost of the bank restructuring program that would be supported under FINSAC. The
proposed FINSAC would cover these costs, and provide (at least) an additional US$13 million of budget
support during its implementation, to help meet the financing gap (Chapter IV).
17.          Balance of Payments Outlook. The Kyrgyz economy will continue to face structural
balance of payments deficits for many years to come. The balance of payments projections for 1996-98
assume export growth of around 7-8% per year in real terms, following 15% growth in 1995.



- 5 -
Considerable export growth can be expected following the liberalization of agricultural prices, the
removal of export taxes and the stabilization of demand in regional markets. In addition, the investment
projects with a high import content at present would enter into production stage leading to significantly
higher exports (in particular, gold) in the following years. The volume of imports is projected to grow
by 16% in 1996, reflecting a recovery from the substantial decline in 1994 and the import content of
large investment projects. More moderate import growth of 3-4% per annum is expected thereafter,
reflecting the rationalization of domestic energy use and increased domestic production of wheat. Under
the above scenario, the current account deficit, excluding official transfers, is expected to decline from
14% of GDP in 1996 to 10% in 1998. Including official transfers, the current account deficit would fall
from 9% of GDP to 7% over the same period. External debt service is expected to average 18% of
exports during the next three years, but would decline to under 15 % by the end of the century as the debt
to FSU countries is paid off and the remaining debt stock becomes increasingly concessional.
18.          Under the above scenario, the current account deficit, excluding official transfers, is
expected to average US$260 million per year during 1996-98. Taking into account amortization payments
of about US$50 million per annum, and increased international reserves, rising to three months of
imports, gross financing requirements would average US$360 million per year during this period. Of
this amount, foreign direct investment is expected to cover about US$40 million a year. Given the
absence of non-concessional borrowing to date, the balance of the Kyrgyz Republic's external capital
requirements would need to be met from official sources. Existing commitments are estimated to provide
about US$210 million per year in disbursements. Three-quarters of this amount would come from
multilateral creditors, including about US$50 million per year from IDA. New commitments would need
to provide the remaining US$110 million per year, on average, to close the financing gap. Future IDA
commitments, including the proposed FINSAC, could provide about one-third of this amount. The
remaining gap would have to be closed primarily by bilateral donors. This appears feasible in view of
recent levels of bilateral grant assistance, which is typically committed on an annual basis.
PART II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR: KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE
A. Sector Structure
19.          Before 1991, the Kyrgyz financial system was a regional component of the Soviet
financial system which mobilized and allocated resources according to the decisions of the Union
government in Moscow. In June 1991, the first set of financial sector reforms were introduced with the
establishment of a two-tier banking system, with the National Bank of Kyrgyzstan (NBK), the central
bank, created under the supervision of Parliament. In December 1992, a comprehensive Central Bank
Law and a Commercial Banking Law were enacted giving independence to NBK. In 1993, the NBK
assumed an even more important role for the conduct of monetary policy with the introduction of the
national currency. At the same time, a fully liberal currency law was enacted, and a full range of indirect
monetary policy instruments was introduced. In addition, weekly foreign exchange sales by the NBK to
the interbank market, regular treasury bill auctions, and credit auctions were launched. Reserve
requirements were unified in July 1993, and a Lombard facility was introduced in August 1993.
20.          At present, the Kyrgyz financial system consists of NBK, 17 commercial banks and a
savings bank. The "Big Four" specialized banks (Agroprombank, AKB Kyrgyzstan, Promstroi and
Elbank) dominate the financial system, accounting for over 80% of the banking system's assets. With
the closure of five small banks during 1994-95 (Urmat, Djyrgal, Saturn, Adil, and Dyikan), the number



-6 -
of operating banks was reduced to 18, including the savings bank. In 1995, the 18 banks combined
operated 170 branches and had assets totalling 2,650 million Soms, equivalent to about 16.5% of GDP.
Though money and capital markets are underdeveloped, there are also a number of non-bank financial
institutions. These include 17 investment funds, 30 insurance companies, a stock exchange (KSE), a
Coupon (privatization) Trading Center (CTC), and one significant state-owned and two smaller private
pension funds. In 1993, as a part of its liberalization program, the NBK began to license foreign
exchange bureaus to buy and sell foreign currencies for a range of current account transactions. There
are currently about 600 licensed exchange counters operating in the Kyrgyz Republic.
B. Financial Market Developments And Key Issues
21.          After the breakup of the Soviet Union, inflation in the Kyrgyz Republic accelerated
rapidly and, over a relatively short period, the real value of bank deposits was massively eroded by
negative real interest rates. Following the introduction of the Som in May 1993, considerable success
has been achieved in macro-financial stability, with inflation falling to an annual rate of 30% by 1995.
The introduction of credit auctions as the main determinant of interest rates, and subsequent adherence
to a tight credit policy, has resulted in interest rates turning substantially positive since end-1993.
22.          Deposit growth, however, has lagged behind the growth of money supply. Deposits fell
from 43 % of broad money at the end of 1993 to an estimated 33 % at the end of 1994. NBK's attempts
to increase liquidity in the economy and injection of cash into the system in the second half of 1994 were
hampered as most of this remained outside the banking system. The most buoyant subsector has been
the household deposits, which have grown from 42 million Soms in mid-1993 to 202 million Soms in
1995. Much of the nominal growth in deposits has been due to crediting of accrued interest. There has
been practically no injection of new funds to the banking system.
23.          Lack of Confidence in the Financial System. The failure of deposits to grow in the face
of high positive real interest rates reflects a widespread lack of confidence in the banking system. Past
experience has been dominated by the massive loss in the real value of deposits discussed above, and by
periodic instances of difficulties in withdrawing deposits. This lack of confidence is also reflected in the
very high level of interest rates being offered on foreign currency deposits. Rates of interest above 20%
on foreign currency deposits reflect a high perceived risk of default. The failure of Kyrgyz banks to
mobilize deposits is clearly linked to the sector's insolvency problems. A further factor inhibiting deposit
mobilization is the practice of seizing the deposits of those believed to be in arrears on tax payments.
The unusually strong powers granted to the Tax Inspectorate in February 1994 in respect of deposit
seizures are a strong deterrent to depositors. Very high bank commissions and charges are also a reason
for enterprises avoiding the local banks.
24.          The most important macroeconomic consequence of the low domestic savings and low
monetary assets ratio is that it severely complicates the task of financing Government deficits. In the
absence of bill, bond and other securities markets, the Kyrgyz Government has financed almost all of its
budget deficits in recent years through borrowing from the domestic banking system, primarily NBK, and
from external sources. Deficit financing through central bank credit proved to be highly inflationary, as
witnessed in 1993, which in turn has eroded the deposit base of the banlding system, reducing the basis
for extending credit to viable, creditworthy private customers. Rebuilding confidence in the financial
system will require a major restructuring of the banking system and the continued strengthening of the
regulation and supervision capabilities of NBK.



-7 -
25.          Money and Interest Rate Policies. In contrast to the developed financial markets, the
financial markets in the Kyrgyz Republic are extremely imperfect. There is considerable uncertainty
about the future path of inflation, and due to the technical insolvency of a major proportion of the
banking system, there is only a weak linkage between loan and deposit developments and the demand for
bank reserves. Market imperfections have produced a situation where the demand for NBK credit may
not reflect system-wide demand for bank reserves. The absence of an effective interbank market results
in the failure to pool liquidity among banks. The dominance of non-performing loans results in many
banks bidding for NBK credits to support distressed borrowings. It is common in financial markets for
distressed borrowers to bid for funds in a manner that exceeds the likely return on capital. The absence
of a consistent system-wide demand for liquidity and the importance of distressed borrowings is reflected
in the size of spread evident in the credit auctions. Over 1995, the average spread in the annual interest
rates between the lowest and highest bids in the credit auctions was 47 %. A further consequence of these
market imperfections is the exceptionally large variation in interest rates offered by different commercial
banks. In early 1995, commercial banks were offering annual interest rates of between 35% and 100%
for 3 to 6 month deposits. Annual interest rates on three month loans varied from 60% to 125%. As
the banks do not quote effective rates of interest, the scope for variation was even greater, depending on
the compounding practices of individual banks.
26.           The dominance of distressed borrowers and the segmentation of the financial market
undermine the role of interest rates as means of pricing deposits, and pricing and allocating credit.
Where the financial markets are highly imperfect, with widespread insolvency among financial
institutions, the insolvent institutions can produce unsustainably high real interest rates, jeopardizing
effective financial intermediation by sound financial institutions. The adverse effects of distressed
borrowers on interest rates will need to be dealt with through a carefully designed bank restructuring
program.
27.           Oligopolistic Nature and Insolvency of Commercial Banks. The commercial banking
system is dominated by the Big Four commercial banks which are insolvent. Other weaknesses in the
banking system include a low level of capitalization, an inadequate accounting system, deficient
communication and payment systems, a lack of adequate banking skills at all operational levels, and the
ill effects of the directed credit policy followed in the past as reflected by the poor quality of the banks'
loan portfolios. The adverse economic conditions of the past few years have led to further deterioration
in banks' portfolios and accentuated the problems faced by the banks.
28.           At least nine of the eighteen banks making up the banking system, including the Big
Four, are currently insolvent. The combined non-performing loans of the Big Four were estimated at
1,386 million Soms in March 1995. This represents 92% of their gross loans and 10% of GDP. Their
negative net worth was estimated as 1,215 million Soms, or about 9% of GDP. The ratio of non-
performing to gross loans was 98 % both at Agroprombank and at Elbank; 85 % at AKB Kyrgyzstan Bank;
and 60% at Promstroi Bank. Agroprombank's negative capital was as much as 953 million Soms, or 7%
of GDP. The survival of the Big Four banks has been possible only because of specially negotiated terms
for the NBK debt and because of exemption from prudential regulations. Five of the 14 private banks,
which are currently being administered by the NBK, also have little prospect of survival.
29.            Several of the remaining banks are profitable, however, and new capital has been
invested recently in Maksat, Kurulush, Akniyet and Kyrgyz-Jer, while the capital of Orient and Kramnd
Banks has grown from profitable operations. Since 1995, three new banks have been licensed and have
commenced operations. Several of the banks are using their powers as universal banks to enter non-



-8 -
banking fields. Orient, in particular, owns an insurance company, has interest in an investment fund and
is a founding member of the stock exchange.
30.          The Bad Debt Problem. The poor quality of the banks' loan portfolios is largely a
legacy of the past, directed lending as well as poor lending policies and practices of the newly established
banks. Directed credits to enterprises and agriculture continued until early 1994. Most of this lending
covered losses or was to maintain employment, and was not undertaken on the basis of objective criteria.
The decisive tightening of monetary policy by NBK in 1994 not only cut the commercial banks' access
to NBK resources but also uncovered the extent of bad loans in the sector. By the end of 1994, as a
consequence, large banks had a very large portion of their loans in the non-performing category. It was
estimated that in early 1995, only 8% of the system's gross loan portfolio was performing, with about
13% considered as substandard, a further 15% is classified as doubtful, and the remaining 64%
considered as irrecoverable or total loss. In the case of the Big Four banks, the ratios-as of April 1996--
were even more alarming: only 5 % of their combined portfolios was classified as performing, with 8 %
considered as substandard, 7% as doubtful, and 80% as total loss. This is, to a large extent, explained
by the fact that a sizeable proportion of the combined outstanding loan portfolios of the Big Four were
extended to the state sector, as compared to 9% for the remaining newly established banks.
31.          Of Agroprombank's total loan portfolio, almost one-half is to the agro-processing
enterprises and distribution complexes, of which Dan-Azyk alone accounts for 25 % of the portfolio. A
further 30% is to the former collective and state-owned farms. Similarly, over 40% of Promstroi's loans
are to Kyrgyz Gas, and a further 25% to five other large state-owned enterprises. With low public
confidence in the system, and NBK providing fewer funds as part of its monetary policy, the new lending
by the banking system is increasingly dependent upon the recovery of their non-performing loans. By
linking the banks' future lending to past lending, the bad debt stock problem has become a serious
constraining factor for the entire banking system.
C. Sector Performance
32.          Because of the systemic deficiencies in the financial system, discussed above, the formal
financial sector in the Kyrgyz Republic has not been an effective vehicle for mobilizing financial
resources and allocating these to their most efficient uses. The M2/GDP ratio at 12% is among the
lowest in the world, and indicates the low level of savings and financial intermediation. Incentives for
financial savings by the private sector have been undermined by lack of confidence in the financial system
and, until recently, by substantially negative real interest rates. Despite these disincentives however, the
private sector has been generating (small) positive savings while the Government at large, including state-
owned enterprises, has been the biggest dissaver (i.e., overall net borrower).
33.          For the majority of the banking system, NBK credit has formed the dominant source of
new resources, although the amount of credit auctioned declined sharply over the second half of 1994.
With an extremely low deposit and resource base, the level of credit relative to output has been low or
nonexistent in all sectors with the exception of trade and commerce. It is estimated that total incremental
lending by the banking system amounted only to 350 million Soms (3% of GDP) during 1994. This
largely reflects the curtailment of the refinancing by NBK over this period, a freeze on new lending to
enterprises in arrears, the lack of new deposit mobilization and the extent of non-performing loan
portfolios of the commercial banks. The banks that have access to Government securities have also
stopped voluntary new lending to enterprises. The purchase of NBK credit and the purchase of Treasury
Bills have formed a significant proportion of commercial bank business during most of 1994. The



9-
conmmercial banks took advantage of the segmentation in the market and secured NBK credit at lower
interest rates than that paid by the NBK on Treasury Bills. This substantially reduced the NBK's profits
and improved the position of some commercial banks. At present, the majority of banks in the
commercial banking system remain technically insolvent, and the existing financial system is incapable
of performing the fundamental role of mobilizing deposits and transforming these into loans.
PART III. PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Objectives And Strategy
34.          An efficient financial sector, with an effective banking system at its core, is essential to
support and foster the Kyrgyz Republic's stabilization and structural adjustment efforts.  The
Government's objective is to develop and deepen the financial system, restore public confidence, and to
establish, over the medium term, an efficient system of resource mobilization and allocation which would
become increasingly liberal and market-oriented and offer a greater variety of instruments to both
borrowers and savers. "Efficiency" requires sound financial institutions operating in a competitive market
structure and in a policy environment that enables proper assessment of risks against returns. An
"effective" financial system fosters longer-term growth and development and requires that savers and
borrowers are adequately served throughout the country. The reforms required to achieve these longer-
term goals will need to be phased over a number of years, given the emerging nature of key financial
institutions in the Kyrgyz Republic and the limited implementation capacity of the country. Furthermore,
some of these reforms are prerequisites for the others: Financial sector deepening and diversification can
take place cohesively and with success only if an enabling policy and regulatory environment is in place
and key financial institutions are sound and functioning. The growth and viability of the financial system
also depends heavily on the growth and viability of the real sectors. The types of financial services and
products needed by the real sectors, and the availability of bankable opportunities in the economy as a
whole, will largely determine the growth of financial services in the future.
35.          The proposed strategy for financial sector reform in the Kyrgyz Republic contains the
following key elements: (i) creation of a policy and regulatory environment conducive to the sound
growth of a competitive and efficient private banking system; (ii) liquidation of the two dominant and
insolvent state-owned banks: Agroprombank and Elbank (the Savings Bank), which, through their
practices, stifle the growth of their young private competitors; (iii) downsizing and financial restructuring
through private re-capitalization of two large and insolvent former state banks: Promstroi and AKB
Kyrgyzstan Banks, survival of which has been possible only through preferential treatment and support
of the Central Bank; (iv) creation of a temporary Debt Resolution Agency (DEBRA) to help collect,
restructure, sell or write off the old non-performing loans, and thus accelerate enterprise restructuring
or liquidation in the process; and (v) creation of a regulatory and supervisory framework, and supporting
policies and infrastructure, for the development and growth of emerging non-bank financial institutions
(NBFIs).
36.          The successful implementation of the Reform Program to be supported by the proposed
FINSAC would lead to the creation of an initially smaller but more solvent and efficient banking system,
owned and managed by the private sector. In rural areas, Agroprombank and the existing system of
poorly directed Government-financed credit programs would initially be superseded by a better managed
interim rural credit system, and over the longer term by a self-sustaining, commercially viable system
of rural banking and cooperatives. In the enterprise sector, private enterprises would be served by



- 10-
smaller, private sector banks better regulated by sound prudential measures and equipped with sound
credit policies and trained staff. The temporary Debt Resolution Agency (DEBRA) would help collect
some part of the debts carved out of banks, with the main objective of encouraging discipline in the
enterprise sector and forcing the least viable firms out of the market. This agency would be closed down
within three years. The establishment of equity markets is already underway, and would over time lead
to more active trading of the shares of private enterprises, thus also contributing to better governance.
The creation of a more sound legal and regulatory framework would also enhance the efficiency and
security of financial institutions; help restore public confidence in the financial system; and encourage
the emergence and expansion of NBFIs, including sound contractual savers such as insurance companies
and pension funds.
B. The Enabling Policy Environment
Sustaining Macroeconomic Stability
37.          Sound macroeconomic policies are essential if financial sector policies are to be effective.
The ability of financial markets and institutions to mobilize and allocate resources efficiently will depend
heavily on the existence of a stable macroeconomic environment. Despite considerable success achieved
in reducing inflation, there remains uncertainty over future inflation expectations and movements. The
maintenance of price stability, which is an essential prerequisite for savings mobilization as well as for
the development of the financial system, will remain a key priority. Fiscal policy has been the source
of much instability in the Kyrgyz economy over the past few years. Restructuring/liquidation of insolvent
banks will temporarily increase the need for public funding, thus adding to the already severe fiscal
problem. The success of the reforms in the financial sector will continue to be dependent on a
responsible fiscal policy, one that minimizes the need to monetize the Government deficit and that
prevents the build-up of domestic arrears.
38.          The Government has re-affirmed its intention to continue to reduce both the size of the
fiscal deficit as well as its financing through the domestic banking system. Because of the importance
of macroeconomic stability to the success offinancial sector reforms, the proposed FINSAC explicitly links
the first and second tranche release to satisfactory macroeconomic and fiscal performance, in FY96 and
FY97.
Removing Policy-Induced Barriers to Bank Profitability and Security
39.          At present, the banks are adversely affected by the fiscal policy. Current tax legislation
recognizes only loan-loss provisions against net income after tax. Thus, pre-tax profit is artificially
inflated and taxed away. This unduly drains the capital base of the banks and discourages bank
management from fully accounting for likely loan losses and thus fairly presenting the banks' condition.
In addition, there is a heavy tax burden on the banking system. Levies currently include a 45 % corporate
tax (as compared to 30% for non-financial enterprises), and a transaction tax on gross income.
40.          There is also a lack of clarity about the application of VAT, and about the tax regime in
general. At present, banking services are mostly exempt from VAT. This is true in the current system
and in that proposed for introduction in 1996. However, many banks are applying VAT to certain money
transactions because they believe these services to be subject to VAT. Similarly, the application of the
corporation tax exemption for the first years of joint venture companies needs to be applied uniformly



- 11 -
and without vexatious disputes. Given the potential size of transactions in banking, such a lack of clarity
is a major obstacle.
41.           Under the Reform Program, the Government has submitted to Parliament a Tax Reform
Bill. Before the release of Second Tranche, the Borrower will enact this Reform Bill through which: (i)
the banks will be allowed to take loan-loss provisions against gross income, before tax; (ii) the profit tax
rate on financial institutions (45 %) will be harmonized with the productive sectors (30%) in order to
allow the banks to build up their capital, and to lower substantially the costs offinancial intermediation;
and (iii) the existing tax regime will be clarified to avoid confusion about tax exemptions, and whether
and which financial transactions are subject to VAT.
42.           To build depositor confidence in the financial system, all state organs will need to desist
from practices that are not appropriate in an economy striving towards secure private contracts and those
which discourage the public from using banks for deposits and transactions. This applies in particular
to tax collection throughout the year at the source, and seizure of bank deposits of those believed to be
in arrears on tax or loan payments, by the Tax Inspectorate. Current legislation does not provide
adequate safeguards against potential abuse of access to restricted financial information. A sharper legal
definition of the scope, reasons for, and nature of information disclosure on clients' accounts and
transactions to various investigative organs will help in bringing savings and transfers into the formal
banking sector.
43.            Under the Reform Program, the Government has submitted to Parliament a Tax Reform
Bill which: (i) cancels the extraordinary powers given to the Tax Inspectorate in February 1994, including
in particular the seizure of deposits; (ii) cancels such powers given to other State organs; and (iii) limits
the Tax Inspectorate's and other State organs' rights (except those of NBK) to obtain information from
banks to instances in which due cause justifies an investigation, thereby barring the current practice of
obtaining information from banks on a mass scale without specific justification.
Building a Competitive Market Structure
44.           At present, there is a high degree of market concentration in the banking system. The
"Big Four" dominate the financial sector. These banks are able to outbid, at a loss, their more efficient
young competitors in the competition for resources and business, and to continue operating, also at a loss,
their large branch networks that dominate almost every area outside Bishkek. Several factors account for
that behavior. First, Agroprombank and Elbank are under pressure by authorities to keep providing
certain services. Second, the Big Four still enjoy some implicit subsidies, including the free lease of
many local premises and the rescheduling of some NBK refinancing on soft terms. Third, and most
importantly, their shareholders and managers show little concern about further losses, since these banks
are already insolvent and are waiting for some form of a bail-out from the Government. The behavior
of the Big Four banks affects the much sounder, profit-oriented newcomers in the banking sector in
several ways: It hinders the small competitors' growth; absorbs the scarce resources and attention of the
Government and NBK; and undermines public confidence in the banking sector.
45.           To raise efficiency among banks, as reflected in performance indicators such as improved
productivity, reduced intermediation costs and increased profitability, the Government will take actions
to encourage competition among banks and to reduce its own participation in the financial system. The
liquidation/restructuring and privatization of state-owned banks will receive top priority in the proposed
financial sector Reform Program. The Government will also simplify licensing procedures and promote



- 12 -
the entry of foreign banks. To avoid an excessive proliferation of small banks, the Government will
increase the minimum and ongoing capital adequacy requirements for new and existing banks.
C. Legal And Regulatory Enviromnent
46.           A sound legal and regulatory framework is essential to improve financial sector efficiency
and prudence. Considerable progress has been achieved in this area. However, significant work remains.
In August 1995, the President issued two decrees which set forth the agenda to amend existing or adopt
new financial legislation. This agenda properly prioritizes the promulgation of necessary laws and
regulations for the further development of the financial sector. If progress on legal reforms proceeds as
detailed in the Presidential Agenda, with the addition of legal reforms proposed under FINSAC, the
Kyrgyz Republic will continue to be one of the most progressive FSU countries in the area of legal
reformn.
Ensuring Prudent Bankdng
47.          Since 1992, significant progress has been achieved in stipulating prudential norms and
phasing in their implementation, giving NBK enforcement powers, and developing NBK's supervision
capabilities. Nonetheless, further progress is warranted and requires appropriate disposition, especially
in the upcoming new Banking Law and further NBK prudential regulations.
48.          The New Banking Law: The first Banking Law was adopted in 1991 and amended in
1994. The new Banking Law, prepared as part of the FINSAC reform agenda, will contribute
significantly to ensuring bank prudence. The new Banking Law will be further strengthen NBK's powers
to set up limitations on banks' single currency holdings, real estate holdings, dealings in precious metals
or jewelry other than bullion or coins of a minimum purity, and transactions with affiliates and other
connected parties. To prevent the sudden withdrawal of capital by bank owners, the new Law will
require banks to be exclusively joint stock companies.
49.          The new Banking Law will also authorize a broad range of enforcement powers and
sufficiently high ceilings for sanctions; both are inadequate at present. In revising these provisions, care
will be taken not to grant excessive powers, and to be broadly in line with international standards. Under
the new Law's provisions, NBK will be able to exact penalties from banks that report inaccurate
information. Careful consideration will also be given to granting bank supervisors the power to mandate
provisions and to include the affiliates of banks in their examination. To further enhance the effectiveness
of bank supervision, NBK will no longer be required to share its annual examination plans with the banks
(which currently provides them with advance warning). Before the release of Second Tranche, the
Borrower will enact the new Banking Law, satisfactory to IDA.
50.          Prudential Regulations: A number of new prudential regulations for banks have recently
been adopted by NBK. These include minimum and ongoing capital adequacy requirements; liquidity
ratios and reserve requirements; loan classification and provisioning guidelines; foreign exchange
exposure limits; and lending limits including lending to shareholders and to a single borrower. Guidelines
for "problem bank intervention" have also been issued. On the whole, the new prudential guidelines are
adequate, except for those relating to capital adequacy requirements which are still low by international
standards. At present, minimum capital requirements are set at 5 million Soms for local banks and
US$1 million for foreign banks, while banks are expected to maintain a minimum ratio of capital to assets
of 7%.



- 13 -
51.           Under the Reform Program, NBK has: (i) reduced the single borrower lending limit from
30% to (25 %) of capital for new banks; (ii) put a (15 %) limit on aggregate lending to shareholders and
other insiders (special donor credit lines will be exempt from this principle); (iii) raised the minimum
capital requirements, from 5 million to 10 million Soms for local banks, andfrom 10 million to 20 million
Soms for foreign banks; and (iv) commenced the implementation of the Basle guidelines for capital
adequacy (i.e., 8% of risk-weighted assets).
52.           Before the release of Second Tranche, NBK will enforce 25% maximum single borrower
limit on all commercial banks.
53.           Bank Supervision: While the insolvency of most commercial banks and the bad debt
problem have obscured the performance of the financial system since 1992, the NBK has successfully
managed to stabilize the overall situation and put in place an improved framework for banking. Its
policies have been on the right track in preventing further misallocation of new resource flows. In order
to minimize distressed borrowing, the NBK has been quite selective in allowing banks to participate in
its refinance auctions, and loaned funds with collateral often in the form of treasury bonds and foreign
exchange. The NBK has also considerably improved its supervision capabilities and established new
procedures for dealing with problem banks. The Bank Supervision Department (BSD) has closed three
problem banks and put six others under a special supervision program, thus excluding those from its
various windows and asserting its determination to rein in poorly performing banks. Although the quality
of bank supervision has improved significantly during the past year, and compares favorably with that
of the neighboring countries, BSD is still understaffed and lacks certain skills. The two areas that most
require strengthening are on-site inspection and problem bank monitoring and management. Urgent work
is also needed to strengthen licensing procedures in order to introduce a qualitative assessment of
applications and to improve the quality of prudential reporting from banks.
Enhancing Security in Lending
54.           Loan collection is a key problem of banks in the Kyrgyz Republic. This is due not only
to unexpected distress of borrowers, but also to willful default. Fundamental to the health of the financial
sector will be the restoration, over time, of the social, cultural and business habits of respecting property
rights and honoring contracts.  These were eroded during the Soviet era when property was collective
and contracts were replaced by orders. In practical terms, specific actions will start enhancing security
in lending, by facilitating the enforcement of collateral and other contractual rights and by making
information about borrowers easily accessible to lenders. The Government will need to strengthen the
legal, judicial, and registry framework for the use of pledges, the handling of insolvent borrowers, and
the reporting of credit. These specific measures will need to be supplemented by improvements in the
broader framework of property, company, and transaction legislation. The Civil Code, after some final
harmonization with other laws, will soon be entering into force. A new Company Law, including the
Law on Business Partnerships, whose drafting is well advanced, will be adopted, and supplemented by
a revised Law on Lease. Security in lending would also be vastly enhanced by private ownership of land
and property. However, this issue is still being debated in the Kyrgyz Republic, as noted above.
55.           The New Law on Pledge. To curtail lending risk, and to do so at low transaction costs,
the banking sector needs an effective and efficient framework for enforcing collateral and mortgage
rights. In the Kyrgyz Republic, this requires the proper finalization of new legislation, and the
establishment of a registry of pledges. Under the Reform Program, a new Law on Pledge has been
prepared. The new Law on Pledge introduces an efficient out-of-court process yet gives to the debtor



- 14 -
the right of court appeal prior to execution. The new Law on Pledge creates a central registry in which
all pledges shall be registered. One key issue is that the new Civil Code clearly requires the notarization
of all mortgage and pledge agreements to be valid. However, the current notary system is costly and not
satisfactory. The new Civil Code and the Law on Notaries impose a 5 percent fee on all pledge
agreements, based on the value of transaction. The new Law on Pledge suppresses the involvement of
notaries in the creation and enforcement of security rights by: (i) stating that the notarization will occur
under special conditions derogatory to the Law on Notaries; (ii) reducing notary fees to a special fixed
rate; and (iii) specifying a strict regime of personal liability for the notary officers, which could then be
enforced in court.
56.           The greatest impediment to the efficient implementation of the new Law on Pledge is the
technical aspects of creating the central registry of pledges. Given its urgency, the registry could piggy-
back on another registry network, such as the existing or emerging registries of enterprises, share, or
land-use. Nevertheless, this use of existing registries will be a temporary solution. The Government will
then provide a precise time schedule for the creation of the new registry. On the ability to pledge "land"
as collateral, it is satisfactory for the banking system to rely on the existing "right to use land" up to 99
years. These land-use rights, which are freely transferable, can also be used as collateral. Under the
Reform Program, the Government has submitted to Parliament the new Law on Pledge, satisfactory to
IDA. Before the release of Second Tranche: (i) the Borrower will enact the new Law on Pledge,
satisfactory to IDA; and (ii) the Government will create a central registry system for pledges to enforce
security rights.
57.           Resolving the Insolvency of Borrowers. The current Insolvency Law (1994), together
with the Implementation Regulations for Enterprises and Banks, provides a satisfactory basis for the
conduct of insolvencies in the Kyrgyz Republic. However, there are two key issues at present. First is
the ability of the judiciary to apply the insolvency legislation.  This calls for streamlined court
procedures, training of judges and other legal experts, and the dedication of adequate budget resources
to bankruptcy cases. Second is the inability of the "liquidator" to start the liquidation process without
court involvement. This issue is of paramount importance for timely and effective liquidation of insolvent
enterprises and banks. At present, it takes months to receive formal court approval. To a maximum
extent, procedures should take place between the involved parties out of court.  Under the Reform
Program, the Government has submitted to Parliament a Revised Insolvency Law that limits the time
period given to courts to "one month" (30 days) to approve NBK's request to start the bank liquidation
process. Before the release of Second Tranche, the Borrower will enact the Revised Insolvency
Legislation, satisfactory to IDA.
58.           Strengthening the Judiciary.  Legislation alone will not ensure secure lending if it
cannot be effectively and efficiently enforced. Under the Reform Program the Government will take steps
to ensure that the judiciary is capable of understanding and complying with the legislation. These steps
will include training of the judiciary. The accompanying Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project
(FINSAC TA) should be regarded as the preliminary step towards a comprehensive judicial reform
program. This future program will include at least an extensive retraining of all judges. In the short
term, FINSAC implementation requires at least an intensive retraining of all the 40 Commercial Courts
Judges. The trainers responsible for that training program would master all aspects of business law in a
civil law country, and should be business oriented. They should also be able to teach the future lawyers
at the universities. A modem judiciary relies on a comprehensive, widely open, legal information
system. Based on the experience of the database managed by the National Library, the Government will
also initiate the creation of a computerized database. This database will make available all legal official



- 15 -
texts and major case-laws in all Rayons and Oblast Courts and all Arbitration Courts, as well as in the
two Supreme Courts, the Constitutional Court, and in major Ministries. A Law on Arbitration will be
developed as a matter of urgency so as to allow commercial counterparties a means of enforcing their
legal rights without recourse to the courts. The system of charging for actions in the courts or for
notarial verification of documents is arbitrary and irrational at present, and acts as a tax on these
transactions. These will be revised, and the charges be linked to the amount of court time involved or
to a notary's actual costs.
59.          Making Continued Progress in Privatization and Enterprise Restructuring. Besides
legal reform, continued progress in privatization and enterprise reform is key for higher security in
lending, and virtually a precondition for the success of financial sector reform in general. The key
objectives of the PESAC and APEAC reform programs - creating a private sector client base that
operates under market incentives and seeks profitability, hardening the budget constraints of firms,
improving their governance through privatization, taking nonviable enterprises out of business and
liquidating their assets, and restructuring those with good prospects to become competitive and profitable
- will need to be pursued with vigor and perseverance. Before the release of Second Tranche of FINSAC,
(i) the Government will complete coupon auctions for all enterprises, and reduce state ownership to a
minority share in a minimum of (320) enterprises included in the 1996-97 Privatization Program, except
in the major utilities that have individual privatization plans aimed at attracting strategic investors; (ii)
the Borrower will (a) offer all potentially viable ERRA enterprises for sale, and (b) initiate liquidation
procedures for all "old enterprises" and all others slated for liquidation. No funds will be allocated to
ERRA enterprises from the 1997 Budget, except for completion of the liquidation process; and, finally,
(iii) the Borrower will fulfill all of the Second Tranche conditions ofAPEAC, thus enabling IDA to release
the Second Tranche of the APEAC operation.
Strengthening Banks Institutionally
60.           Poor technical capabilities and poor management are other major constraints to the further
development of sound banking. These deficiencies can be traced to: lack of accounting and auditing
systems for modern banking; slow development of skills and lack of collaboration with foreign banks;
and slow emergence of key sectoral infrastructure, such as appropriate clearing and settlement systems.
61.           Introducing Adequate Bank Accounting and Auditing Modern accounting and auditing
standards that are necessary for the expansion of financial intermediation are being introduced at the
NBK and the commercial banks, with technical assistance from various donors. However, the financial
statements of some Kyrgyz banks are still being prepared along Russian accounting principles. It is
essential that internationally accepted accounting standards (IAS) be adopted as soon as possible. A new
chart of accounts was recently finalized with assistance from USAID, but remains to be made operational.
Most Kyrgyz banks are still using essentially the old chart of accounts that traces back to the Soviet era.
Only some partial and interim improvements have been achieved in this area. NBK has been producing
some form of broadly adjusted financial statements about commercial banks; a few banks have adapted,
in an ad hoc manner, foreign accounting computer software that they use in parallel to the official system;
and some banks have sent staff to accounting courses in neighboring countries. The introduction of a new
accounting system appropriate for a market economy is needed urgently. Before the release of Second
Tranche, NBK will introduce the new Chart of Accounts based on International Accounting Standards
(14) for all commercial banks, and enforce the implementation of these accounts in at least five
commercial banks. This will greatly enhance bank management decisions, bank governance, prudential
supervision, and the attraction of potential investors.



- 16 -
62.          Improving Clearing and Settlement, and Liquidity Management.  An effective
payments system plays a crucial role in market economies, by expediting the settlement of financial
obligations among economic agents and regulating the financial conduct of participants. The deficiencies
in the country's payments system are putting considerable strain on commercial transactions. Despite
progress under the Bank of Japan-sponsored reform program to redesign the payments system, payments
delays still amount to about two days within a region and up to 14 days at the inter-regional level. The
requirement that settlement accounts be maintained between the bigger banks has resulted in each bank's
funds being temporarily blocked in many accounts. Weak in-house facilities for data processing and
communication force banks to hold high levels of reserves at each settlement branch separately. The
updating and netting of balances at the clearing house in Bishkek are subject to frequent breakdowns of
archaic computer equipment. NBK foresees a range of short-term improvements that would include, inter
alia, the establishment of regional clearing houses which would transmit netted end-of-day positions to
NBK where the final settlement would take place. This strategy appears to be in line with a general
banking sector reform that rapidly diminishes the importance of the largest banks and invites the newer
banks to play a more active role. A longer-term reform strategy for payment and settlement systems is
currently being developed with technical assistance from Japan.
63.          Transferring Modern Banking Skills. The Kyrgyz banking system has major technical
training needs. At present, the requisite knowledge and skills in most areas of modern banking are thinly
distributed throughout the banking sector. These include, inter alia: strategic planning, credit analysis
and risk management, international trade finance, and asset and liability management. Currently, training
is carried out on an ad hoc basis by the banks themselves, as a component of certain aid programs. Under
the reform program, a comprehensive, coordinated bankers' training program will be initiated with
technical assistance to fulfill both the immediate, short-term needs, and to provide for ongoing training
and formal education within the banking profession.
D. Restructuring Old Insolvent Specialized Banks
64.          The Big Four specialized banks -  Agroprombank, Elbank, Promstroi and AKB
Kyrgyzstan - are insolvent. In part, this sad financial state is the legacy of the earlier transition years
when these banks were still state-owned and treated like extended arms of the Government; NBK credit
was handed out liberally; and the enterprise sector had not even started to adjust. A second part of the
loans dates to more recent times. By then, the ownership of the Big Four, except of Agroprombank and
Elbank, had shifted largely into private hands; directed credit had given way to auctioned credit; and
interest rates were becoming positive. Nonetheless, the Big Four kept accumulating bad loans, albeit at
a slower rate. Bad governance and management, political pressures on lending and collection, and the
weak condition and unfavorable environment of the enterprise sector all contributed to their worsening
loan portfolios.
65.          Removal of the overwhelming dominance of these banks is central to creating a more
competitive, solvent financial system. Under the Reform Program the Government will: (i) liquidate
Agroprombank and replace it in the short term by an emergency farm support program for the provision
of farm inputs and working capital, and in the medium term by a commercially viable and sustainable
rural banking and cooperative system; (ii) dissolve Elbank (the former Sberbank), with its viable assets
sold to the viable commercial banks; and (iii) substantially downsize and restructure, through private
recapitalization, the Promstroi and AKB Kyrgyzstan Banks. Bank liquidation and restructuring will be
executed in a way that seeks to preserve the provision of basic banking services during the transition.
The agreed strategy also addresses the need to avoid moral hazard and the loss of financial discipline that



- 17 -
would result from wholesale, unconditional forgiveness of non-performing loans to the enterprise sector,
by suggesting a temporary system for collecting, selling or resolving bad loans. Finally, the proposed
reform strategy aims to ensure that bank liquidation and restructuring is financially feasible; the largest
part of which would be cost-neutral for the state.
Liquidating Agroprombank
66.           Agroprombank is the largest bank in the Kyrgyz Republic and the predominant lender to
the agricultural sector. It has 52 branches throughout the country, 1,300 employees, and loans at June
30, 1995 of about 1 billion Soms. The bank has not been effective in collecting its loans, which have
been rescheduled on a regular basis pursuant to Government decrees. The loan portfolio has been funded
almost exclusively by an overdraft at NBK since the bank has virtually no deposits. If the required loan-
loss reserves of approximately 1 billion Soms were to be booked, shareholders' equity would be a
negative 1 billion Soms. Agroprombank is technically bankrupt and its role as a distributor of directed
credits has largely replaced its role as a bank. Its profitable clients are increasingly turning to the smaller,
private banks. The reform strategy for Agroprombank is therefore to liquidate the bank.
67.           As is the case in any bank liquidation, there are a number of issues which need to be
addressed, of which the most important are: (i) the need to develop an alternative rural finance system
which replaces the role of Agroprombank as the primary agricultural credit institution; (ii) the desire to
effect an equitable repayment of deposit liabilities; and (iii) the impact on the Government payment
system if the nationwide branch network of Agroprombank is closed.
68.           Rural Finance Strategy. It is clear that neither Agroprombank nor any alternative rural
finance institution can be viable and sustainable until the agricultural sector returns to profitability.
Farmers need to be profitable to be eligible for seasonal credits and they will require access to longer-
term financing for equipment and other purposes if they are to be viable. Farm profitability continues to
be low, due primarily to farm gate prices which are below border price equivalents, as well as to low
farm efficiency. In these circumstances, it is necessary to make a distinction between "short-term
emergency assistance," which is needed to keep a broad spectrum of the agricultural population
productive pending further adjustments in the economy, and an efficient "commercial" rural finance
scheme, which will be profitable and sustainable in the longer term.
69.           Over the past three years, the Kyrgyz Republic has achieved some progress towards
reforming the agricultural sector along market economy lines. About 40% of the total land area subject
to privatization has actually been distributed to individuals in the form of land-use rights. The right to
use land for 99 years has been established, and a new Land Code is under preparation that will transform
the right to use land into a property right that can be freely transferred, inherited and used as collateral.
Successful and lasting supply response in agriculture, both in the short and medium term, will come
primarily from "private" commercial farms. Further reforms are required to accelerate the privatization
of state farms and state-owned land, and to encourage "private" farmers to increase production and
generate marketable surplus through incentives created by a more active land market, accurate price
information, improved efficiency in marketing and processing, and better advice and support to farmers
in the form of inputs and credit.
70.           The short and medium-term elements of a feasible Rural Finance Strategy are being
developed and managed under a separate Rural Finance Credit from IDA. Development of a sustainable
rural finance strategy and provision of credit to farmers and other viable off-farm activities are key



- 18 -
priorities for the Government. It plans to rely as much as possible on market-based credit allocation for
agriculture. However, it will do so gradually as competitive markets evolve, farmers adjust to the new
market environment, and support services improve.
71.           During the transition period, the provision of emergency credit to farmers can best be
achieved through managed funds, such as a revolving fund for rural finance. There is a Working Group
on Rural Finance, established under the Ministry of Agriculture, which is in the process of developing
proposals for a more efficient distribution of (i) farm inputs and (ii) working capital, funded from the
central Government budget. These budgetary transfers, which are likely to be highly subsidized, will be
funded through properly approved budgetary allocations.
72.           The modalities of a longer-term commercially viable and sustainable rural finance strategy
are yet to be designed and agreed upon, however. Commercial banks typically have difficulty in
profitably serving the credit needs of the agricultural sector. The risks are difficult to manage, the size
of loans is generally small and transaction costs are high. While commercial banks may be able to
mobilize deposits from the rural population, these deposits are frequently used to finance loans in urban
markets, where loans are larger and risks more easily manageable. Given the cooperative nature of
farming systems in the Kyrgyz Republic, and the need to keep transaction costs down and to establish
repayment discipline, consideration is being given to establishing a rural finance system based on rural
credit cooperatives or mutual savings societies. The development of a new rural credit system will
undergo many variations and changes as new institutions are created to replace the former
Agroprombank. It is possible that, over time, a number of key former branches of Agroprombank will
re-emerge either as new independent banks, or as rural credit unions, branches of existing banks, or local
offices for credit cooperatives.
73.           Deposit Payout Scheme. In most bank liquidations, depositors are paid out at the
inception through available cash, a deposit transfer, or from a deposit insurance scheme. In all cases
depositors must be treated as creditors of the bankrupt estate and usually enjoy some privilege in ranking.
According to Agroprombank management, there are very few individual depositors, and most accounts
are either in the names of agricultural enterprises or are Government ministry accounts. In the case of
Government deposits, the deposit balances could be transferred to another financial institution with either
a back-up liquidity commitment from the NBK or a Government directive that official deposits would not
be precipitously withdrawn. The Government could also support a non-cash depositor payout through the
conversion of certain deposit balances into long-term savings instruments.  As part of FINSAC
preparation, the NBK conservator will form an internal working group, with assistance from the NBK
Bank Supervision Department, to initiate a special internal study of the composition of the deposit base
and to develop a comprehensive deposit distribution plan. In designing such a distribution plan,
distinctions will be made in both the method and the timing of deposit payouts among different classes
of depositors.
74.           Branch Network Rationalization. The Agroprombank branch network has been used by
the Kyrgyz Treasury, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, and the Social Fund to distribute various
pension, Government salary, disability, and social services payments to the population. Certain branches
have also been used by the Treasury to make remittances of collected taxes back to Bishkek. Similar
payments are also being made throughout the country, utilizing Promstroi and AKB Kyrgyzstan banks
and, more importantly, the postal system with its network of nationwide offices. One alternative long-
term solution to this issue could be to transfer this operational function immediately to another bank and
to utilize the postal system for further distribution to the more rural areas. Although officially closed as



- 19 -
a banking institution, selected branches of Agroprombank could continue to act as "Agents of the
Treasury" on an interim basis for the purpose of continuing these payment distributions until a new
comprehensive system was implemented. Because the Agroprombank branch network is so extensive, and
certain branches have a strong potential for sale or conversion into a new financial institution in some
manner, a separate analysis is currently being conducted by an international firm to determine which
branches of the Agroprombank network will survive, and in what capacity, in the future.
75.           Under the Reform Program, NBK has placed the Agroprombank under the receivership
of DEBRA, and started the liquidation process. Before the release of Second Tranche, DEBRA will (i)
assess the value of Agroprom's assets; (ii) transfer all recoverable loan assets of Agroprombank into the
Debt Recovery Unit (DRU); (iii) reduce staff levels and close or sell bank branches; and (iv) submit a
timetable to FINSA C Review Committee' and IDA for completion of liquidation of Agropromnbank. NBK
is due 965 million Soms from Agroprombank. This amount represents a bad debt on the books of NBK.
To make the balance sheet of NBK whole again, before the release of Second Tranche, the Government
will (y) replace this amount by a long-term bond of 965 million Soms at 5% interest rate, as described
in the Letter of Financial Sector Development Policy.
Liquidating Elbank
76.           Elbank, the former Sberbank, is financially insolvent and highly unprofitable. Several
factors have contributed to this. First, the bank has never been properly compensated by MOF either
for the loss of assets "frozen" in Moscow upon dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991 or for the
revaluation of deposits upon the Ruble/Som conversion in 1993; the bank's claims on MOF have not been
formalized and their amount is in dispute. Second, the bank has, in the last two years, engaged in
careless lending, based on deposits that it attracted with above-market interest rates. The bank's average
funding costs are around 100%. At the same time, NBK examiners classified about 80% of Elbank's loan
portfolio as "loss" and the bank has been receiving virtually no interest income. Third, under past
disaster relief and housing programs, the bank has long-term, low-interest loans of about 85 million Soms
outstanding. Whether it acted in this matter merely as an agent for the Government, or actually took a
credit risk, has never been clarified. Fourth, the bank bears high non-interest costs due to its small
average deposit size of less than 50 Soms and its large branch network, although under NBK management
the bank has now cut the number of its outlets by one sixth. The minute deposit base in the rural areas,
and the small volume and value of payment transactions, do not support the largest part of its network.
The image of the bank is thoroughly discredited. Most new deposits of the last few years have come
from businesses in the Bishkek area which, in a speculative manner, sought to benefit from its high
interest rates despite the associated risk. The reform strategy, therefore, is to close the Elbank. The
customer loans of Elbank, most of which are non-performing, would be transferred to the central Debt
Resolution Agency (DEBRA). This would include, a priori, the long-term emergency and housing credits.
77.           Deposit Distribution Plan. These actions would be accompanied by a deposit distribution
plan. This plan will require considerable financial support from the Government. From a legal point
of view, the Government has reportedly given an explicit guarantee only for the old, "frozen" deposits
of about 16.9 million Soms. However, the bank has over 2 million individual depositors. Under the
Reforn Program, the Government will offer immediate compensation for only small depositors. The
The FINSAC Review Committee, chaired by the Prime Minister, will have the responsibility of overseeing the
implementation of key Government decisions under the FINSAC Reform Program.



- 20 -
highest priority would again be given to the 16.9 million Som deposits that the Government had explicitly
guaranteed. One might also consider accrued interest receivable as a lesser priority. The low-priority
claims would then be put on a deferred pay-out plan by converting them into time-deposits. Those
deposits could be transferred to other banks, together with Government securities of appropriate maturity.
78.          Under the Reform Program, Elbank was declared insolvent and its license withdrawn on
February 14, 1996 by NBK resolution No.6/1. NBK's resolution 6/1 also approved a household deposit
payoff plan to be implemented starting February 15, 1996. Total household deposit obligations to be
covered under this plan are 105.7 million Soms for principal of deposits as of December 31, 1995 and
16.7 million Soms interest accrual for 1995 totalling 122 million Soms. The interest accrual calculation
was based on the decision to pay 10% for the average balances on the demand deposits and 30% for the
average balance on the time deposits for 1995 only, regardless of the final maturity of these time deposits.
This way, the unrealistically high-interest-paying long-term time deposits - some up to five years and
over - totalling 35 % of the deposit base will be compensated only by the current market interest rates.
The speculative depositors will thus be asked to face risks, and share part of the financial burden.
79.           The average account balance on demand deposits is 78 Soms. The deposit payoff plan
gives priority to small depositors, by compensating first the small savers (about 78% of the deposit base)
with account balances below 3000 Soms starting February 15, 1996. The large deposit holders (those over
10,000 Soms) will be paid over time, under a definite plan yet to be determined. The public
announcement of the orderly payout scheme has assured the public, and no major deposit runs or panic
withdrawals have been experienced. The payments since February 1996 have so far been financed under
a 50 million Soms from the NBK reserve fund and the bank's liquid assets.
80.          The deposit mobilization capability of the banks and the return of public confidence in
the newly emerging private banking sector in the Kyrgyz Republic are evolving. The new Kyrgyz and
foreign joint-venture banks are entering the market. The banking supervision capability of the NBK is
going to be strengthened considerably under the proposed FINSAC, where all banks will be under the
supervision of NBK. The insolvency and losses of the banks will become much more transparent after
the adoption of internationally acceptable accounting standards. The Law on Banks and Banking will be
improved to lay the proper regulatory and legal basis for the safety and soundness of banks. Stronger
regulatory framework and supervision, increasing competitiveness and transparency are expected to
improve the depositors' confidence in the banking system.
81.           Under the Reform Program, major steps toward the liquidation of Elbank have already
been taken. Before the release of Second Tranche, DEBRA will (i) assess the value of Elbank's assets;
(ii) transfer all recoverable loan assets into the Debt Recovery Unit (DRU); (iii) reduce staff levels and
close or sell bank branches; and (iv) submit a timetable to FINSAC Review Committee and IDA for
completion of liquidation of Elbank.
Restructuring Promstroi and AKB Kyrgyzstan Banks
82.          Promstroi Bank. Promstroi is the local successor of the Soviet Bank for Industry and
Construction. It became a privatized joint stock company in December 1991 and has about 400
shareholders who are some of the largest industrial and construction enterprises in the country. Founded
in 1922, the bank has traditionally served as the Govermnent's vehicle for directed credits to support
state-owned enterprises in these sectors. Since independence, many of the bank's primary borrowers have
become shareholders in the bank. It is of the same size as AKB Kyrgyzstan in terms of branches and



- 21 -
staff, but has only half AKB Kyrgyzstan's volume of gross loans. It seems to have been less aggressive
and innovative than AKB Kyrgyzstan, and more reluctant to do new lending.
83.           The reform strategy for Promstroi Bank recognizes that the institution, while financially
weak, is fundamentally sound on an operational basis. The bank has been operating with a positive net
interest margin, and a sizeable proportion of its loan portfolio (40%) is performing. It is believed,
primarily because of the relatively small amount of new capital funds required, that the bank can be
effectively restructured with private capital with no impact on the central Government's budget.
84.           AKB Kyrgyzstan Bank AKB originated from the Soviet Housing and Social Commodity
Bank, and was re-established as the first joint stock financial institution in 1990. It has 600 staff and 26
branches. It is majority privately owned, although its Supervisory Council remains dominated by state
enterprise managers. It has built a leading position in currency and international transactions, and plays
an important role in domestic payments. The quality of the bank's portfolio is poor. As of October
1995, NBK classified roughly 84% of AKB's portfolio as non-performing. Of the total loans of 216
million Soms, 143 million Soms is ranked as doubtful and loss, twice the current total equity of the bank.
AKB management regards a large part of these loans as "directed." Some portion dates back to before
April 1994, when directed credits were officially discontinued. AKB has so far avoided building the 120
million Som loan-loss reserve that is required by NBK's prudential guidelines. Such provisioning would
show the bank as insolvent with 95 million Som negative net worth. A recent call for capital increase has
been unsuccessful.
85.           Since July 1995, AKB has reported some improvement in its balance sheet through the
mobilization of new enterprise deposits and the repayment of over 37 million Soms in debt to NBK.
Although the overall weaknesses in the bank's loan portfolio remain unchanged, monthly cash flows have
shown a slight improvement as well. Based on its recent financial performance, AKB management
believes that the bank can restructure itself over time, mainly because of the high level of collateral
security on its loan portfolio.
86.           Restructuring Strategy. The reform strategy for each of these two banks is essentially
an internally managed program which will require each bank to finally recognize its loss positions with
certain loan assets and the credit risks associated with its remaining portfolio. The program calls for each
bank, acting under a "management letter agreement with the NBK," to: (i) write off all loans classified
as loss; and (ii) properly fund the NBK required loan-loss reserves on its remaining portfolio. This will
result in the banks' reporting negative capital positions. Promstroi and AKB will then have a two-phase,
timebound requirement to bring their capital accounts back to "zero," and further to raise additional
capital to meet NBK capital adequacy requirements. The reform program requires minimum intervention
by the Government in these privately owned banks, at least up until the point that bank managements are
unable to raise capital. NBK will formally intervene in the institutions only if they fail to recapitalize
themselves up to a "zero" capital level. The banks themselves will absorb the costs of the resolution of
their own poor credits as well as the funding and investment costs to bring the institutions into compliance
with international banking practices. The restructured banks, with their current nationwide branch
networks, while significantly downsized, will remain intact.
87.           Should this approach prove unsuccessful, the Government will be faced with two choices:
(i) to restructure the banks by issuing bonds to remove bad assets, thus making the banks more attractive
for new private investors to acquire the bank and provide new capital; or (ii) to liquidate the banks.
Under both choices, in order to impose discipline, the banks would be placed under DEBRA's



- 22 -
receivership, management removed, and losses imposed on existing shareholders to the extent of their
investment.
88.           Under the Reform Program, NBK has instructed the managements of Promstroi and AKB
Kyrgyzstan Banks to present capital increase plans, satisfactory to NBK and IDA, to bring the capital
from negative to "positive, " or at least to "zero" level by October 31, 1996, and to reach 8% ongoing
capital adequacy requirement by March 31, 1997.
89.          If the bank(s) has (ve) been successful in raising capital to "positive" or "zero" level by
March 31, 1997, NBK will instruct the bank(s) to present another capital increase plan to reach 8%
ongoing capital adequacy requirement by September 30, 1997. If the bank(s) has(ve) not been successful
in raising capital to "positive" or "zero" level by March 31, 1997, NBK will place the bank(s) under
formal receivership, to start the liquidation process - before the release of Second Tranche.
Financial Costs of Bank Liquidation and Restructuring
90.          In order to resolve the insolvency of Big Four banks, their past losses must be formally
recognized and financed by the budget, after first imposing losses on the banks' shareholders. The costs
to be incurred include payments to depositors, the removal of bad assets from bank balance sheets, an
asset swap with the NBK to replace its claim on the insolvent Agroprombank, severance payments, and
other costs associated with liquidation and restructuring. To the extent possible, shareholders will be
asked to provide new capital to make up losses before Government resources are used. All recapitalization
of the surviving banks, to the minimum capital requirements prescribed by the NBK, will come from new
capital raised from private sources and retained earnings. Annex C, Tables 1 and 2 provide a summary
of the financial costs which could be expected in resolving the failure of these four banks. It is assumed
that collection and liquidation costs will be covered by the collections made against bad assets and the
sale of assets under liquidation.
91.          Bank Liquidation. The Government's potential obligation for the protection of
Agroprombank depositors is estimated at 60 million Soms, as of March 1, 1996. This amount assumes
that current liquid assets of 30 million Soms will first be used to pay off an equivalent amount of
liabilities and that depositors will be protected for the full amount of their deposits. Severance payments
to staff will add an additional 2 million Soms, such that the total cost of resolving this failure will
approximate 62 million Soms. In addition, NBK is due 965 million Soms from Agroprombank. This
amount represents a bad debt on the books of the NBK. To make the balance sheet of the NBK whole
again, this amount would be replaced by a long-term Government bond of 965 million Soms at a nominal
interest rate to be determined. A 5% interest rate would result in an annual cost to the budget of 48
million Soms. However, since the NBK is required to remit 70% of its profits back to the budget, the
net cost to the budget will be on the order of about 15 million Soms annually. As collections are made
from liquidated assets received from Agroprombank, the monies will go to the budget to retire these
bonds and reduce the Government's interest payments to NBK.
92.          The Government's obligation, as owner of the Elbank, is the payout of principal and
interest to depositors. In this regard, a deposit payoff plan has been formulated, and implemented
beginning in February 1996. Under this deposit payoff plan, principal obligations are 105.1 million Soms
and interest obligations 16.9 million Soms totalling 122 million Soms. NBK has provided 50 million
Soms from own reserves to bridge this deposit payoff scheme until the counterparts from FINSAC will
be available to the budget. If necessary, this support will continue until the first tranche of FINSAC is



- 23 -
disbursed and NBK is reimbursed. There could also be recoveries from the assets of the Elbank that
would be used to meet this deposit payoff plan and pay other obligations of Elbank to commercial and
Governnment social institutions and staff layoff costs. These recoveries are estimated to cover all the other
liabilities and expenses of the liquidation of the bank. Thus, the final cost to resolve Elbank's insolvency
is estimnated at 122 million Soms comprising the household deposit payoff plan.
93.           Bank Restructuring. The Promstroi Bank will be recapitalized by its own shareholders
and the retention of earnings. If successful, there will be no cost to the Government. This alternative
appears attainable and is the preferred option. At present, the Promstroi Bank requires 15 million Soms
to bring its capital to a positive level, and 24 million Soms to reach 8% capital adequacy requirements.
Provided that the problems with its directed credits to Naryn Hydro and Kyrgyz Gas are resolved, the
bank will be able to recapitalize itself by its shareholders. However, should this approach prove
unsuccessful, the Government is faced with two choices: (i) to restructure the bank by issuing bonds to
remove bad assets, thus making the bank more attractive for new investors to acquire the bank and
provide new capital; or (ii) to liquidate the bank. Of the latter two alternatives, the first choice, i.e.,
restructuring the bank by issuing bonds to remove bad assets, is the least costly alternative. The potential
obligation of the Government to restructure the bank and protect depositors would be the interest burden
on Government bonds and the cost of retiring the bonds issued. If the Government decides to eliminate
the negative capital of 15 million Soms by issuing bonds, then the cost to the Government would be the
cost of retiring the bonds plus the interest costs. If a 5-year bond is issued, bearing interest rate at 25%,
the cost of the interest and of retiring the bonds for the first year of the program would be 7 million
Soms, with a total cost over 5 years of 26 million Soms.
94.           If AKB Kyrgyzstan Bank is successful in seizing and selling collateral and raising new
capital from shareholders and retained earnings, there will be no cost to the Government. If the Bank
is unsuccessful in raising capital, the Government will again have two choices: (i) to restructure the bank
through a bond issue used to remove bad assets and to recapitalize the bank by new private investors; or
(ii) to liquidate the bank. Under the first approach, the cost to the government would be the principal
of the bonds of 160 million Soms (the negative capital as at June 30, 1995 reported by the diagnostic
audit) plus interest. Assuming that these bonds carry 25% per year interest and are retired in equal
installments over the five years, their cost in the first year would be 72 million Soms with a total cost
to the Government of 272 million Soms over five years. Instead of the bond issue, if the bank is
liquidated, the Government will have to decide whether or not the depositors and the NBK will be
protected in full principal amounts payable by the bank instead of waiting for the liquidation proceeds
from the bank to be used to pay off these liabilities. The cost to pay off the depositors and NBK
immediately and in full principal is estimated to be 138 million Soms (160 million Soms of deposits plus
23 million Soms due to NBK minus 45 million Soms of cash and liquid assets of the bank as of March
1, 1996). The rest of the recoveries from the liquidation of AKB Kyrgyzstan Bank would be used to pay
the rest of the liabilities of the bank.
The Fiscal Impact
95.           The total budgetary resources needed during the first twelve months of the program are
in the range of 300-350 million Soms (a maximum of US$32 million) or about 1.5% of GDP, as initial
upfront costs during the first year (July 1996 - June 1997). Thereafter, the program would cost between
15-59 million Soms per annum, mainly as interest on bonds to be issued as part of the bank restructuring
program (Annex C, Table 1). The proposed FINSAC would provide total financing of US$45 million,
and thus cover the first year's costs, and provide (at least) an additional US$13 million of budget support



- 24 -
during the life of the Credit. The counterpart funds generated under the FINSAC will be made available
to the central Government budget. During the annual budget preparation process, funds will be allocated
and transferred from the budget to NBK/DEBRA, to finance the bank liquidation and restructuring
program. Before finalizing the decision on the amount of counterpart funds to be transferred to
NBK/DEBRA, the Minister of Finance and NBK will have consultations with the IMF and IDA, to
ensure consistency with the macroeconomic program.
E. Resolving The Bad Debt Problem
96.          The non-performing loans that are currently in the portfolios of the Big Four formerly
state-owned banks stand around 1.5 billion Soms (or about 10.3% of GDP). The recommended
liquidation/restructuring strategy for these big banks will address the largest part of the bad asset problem
in the banking sector. Wholesale forgiveness of these debts is not a feasible option, for it would create
moral hazard and would be a severe setback for enterprise reform. Enterprises would be encouraged to
avoid credit repayment and to waste credit resources. Moreover, the relief might leave most non-viable
enterprises in business, without any condition that would force restructuring. Furthermore, the lucky
defaulters would perversely gain an advantage over their healthier or less frivolous competitors who keep
bearing interest and amortization payments. Therefore, serious loan collection efforts would need to be
made, despite the costs and complexities involved.
97.           Under the Reform Program the Government has established a temporary Debt Resolution
Agency (DEBRA), to act in the capacity as receiver on behalf of the National Bank of Kyrgyzstan (NBK),
to take control over and dispose of the assets and liabilities of intervened commercial banks.
98.           DEBRA's operations will comprise two areas:  (i) the receivership function where
DEBRA, through its Bank Restructuring Unit (BRU), will act as agent for the NBK in assisting its
intervention, receivership, conservatorship, deposit payout, and liquidation activities; and (ii) the debt
recovery function where DEBRA, through its Debt Recovery Unit (DRU), will manage, collect,
restructure, liquidate, and resolve the non-performing loan portfolios and other assets of the intervened
banks. It is envisioned that the scope of DEBRA's activities initially will encompass the ultimate
intervention and rationalization by the NBK of at least two of the four banks: Agroprombank and
Elbank. The list may be expanded to include AKB Kyrgyzstan and Promstroi banks as discussed above,
and any other Kyrgyz banks so identified by NBK during the limited time span of DEBRA.
99.          Organization. DEBRA's mandate is to be for a period of three years. Operationally,
DEBRA will be headed by a Director who will report to the Chairman of NBK and to the FINSAC
Review Committee. The Director will manage the day-to-day activities through two deputy directors. The
FINSAC Review Committee, established on May 3, 1996 by a Presidential Decree, will have the
responsibility of overseeing the implementation of key Government decisions under the FINSAC Reform
Program. It will be chaired by the Prime Minister or his designee. The membership of the Committee
will be comprised of the Chairman of NBK, Minister of Finance, Minister of Economy, Minister of
Agriculture, Minister of Justice, Chairnan of State Property Fund, and Director of DEBRA.
100.         The Debt Recovery Unit will act as the vehicle through which all recoveries are made
by the Government and various other classes of creditors, by collection, loan restructuring, and the
innovative use of debt resolution procedures on the outstanding non-performing loan portfolios of the
intervened banks. DRU will organize loan work-out teams which will classify loans into pre-established
categories and apply a series of "automatic criteria" for debt resolution wherever practicable. DRU will



- 25 -
apply standard debt recovery methodologies including an analysis and review of the borrower's financial
condition and debt service capacity as well as an appraisal of the value of collateral, as applicable. In
all cases, the concept of cost-effectiveness in debt recovery efforts will be applied, and protracted and
time-consuming operations where full recovery is not assured will be avoided.
101.          Debt Recovery Principles. Certain categories of loans can be treated in various ways to
effect debt recovery or resolution. Due to likely personnel and time constraints, debt recovery programs
involving standardization and "automatic criteria" which streamline debt recovery actions will be used
to the extent possible. It is recognized by NBK management that dealing with hundreds of loans and
borrowers on a case-by-case basis may well prove to be a monumental and counterproductive effort, with
positive results unattainable within the expected life span of the proposed DEBRA.
102.          While full recovery of a loan is the desired result, it is recognized that, for a variety of
reasons, this will not be a practical or realistic goal in most cases. Therefore other debt recovery
alternatives, such as those described below, will need to be considered:
(a)    Debt Forgiveness. The Government may decide to forgive some or all of certain portions
of debt. Such debt as excessive accumulated interest may be forgiven to give incentive
for payment of principal. There may also be certain types of loans, such as peasant farm
and small agricultural business loans, and those that are directly attributable to previous
Government policies of price intervention for social protection, such as bread subsidy,
that may be forgiven totally in the best interest of the economy.
(b)    Discounts. In order to give borrowers the incentive to pay their debt, discounts should
be considered. These could be in the form of "one time" discounts (such as a 25-50%
discount for full payment within a certain stated time period, or time sensitive discounts,
where a certain percent (such as 10-20%) discount will be accepted for each timely
payment made in an agreed series of payments. Profitable privatized enterprises should
be likely candidates for this alternative to prevent foreclosure of collateral or possible
bankruptcy action.
(c)    Debt Collateral Swap. There will be instances where a borrower will be willing to swap
collateral for all or a portion of debt to prevent bankruptcy. Often this collateral is not
marketable in the area of the country where the debtor is located. DEBRA, through its
nationwide operations,  could transport the collateral to marketable areas.  Also,
individual collateral may be of such small quantity as to not be very marketable.
However, DEBRA would be able to consolidate similar types of collateral from numerous
debtors into acceptable marketable sizes.
(d)    Debt/Equity Swap. There will be opportunities to exchange all or part of outstanding
debt for an equity interest in a debtor enterprise. This swap can be negotiated as to
price and type of equity instrument. The easiest swap could be for common stock.
However, to alleviate concerns over the dilution of ownership wherein the Government
could own a substantial or majority part of the enterprise, alternate equity instruments
could be exchanged.  This could take the form  of preferred non-voting stock,
subordinated debt, or some type of instrument (such as a warrant or stock coupon) that
is convertible into common stock as long as the converter is not a Government entity.
Using this approach, DEBRA could take an instrument convertible to common stock and



- 26 -
sell it, possibly on the stock exchange, to private individuals, thus overcoming the fear
of Government ownership of an otherwise privatized enterprise.
(e)    Restructuring of Debt. To allow non-performing borrowers to get to performing status,
it is often necessary to negotiate a debt restructure. This can take various forms with the
most prevalent being restructure of the terms (maturity date(s), interest rate, payment
amounts, timing of payments, etc.) and setting up some type of enterprise "cash flow"
payment requirements (where the payments are based on the cash flow of the business
such as receipt of accounts receivable). In all restructure agreements, it is prudent to
attempt to obtain additional collateral, guarantees, etc.
(f)    Auction/Sale of Debt. Selling loans individually or in packages of several homogeneous
loans may be a viable disposition alternative. This can be through either public or sealed
bid auctions. Large loans to specialized companies or with distinctive collateral lend
themselves to sealed bid auctions involving known potential buyers that are both
interested in the particular kind of debt and have the ability to purchase. This will likely
be competitor firms looking for a way to expand and feel that the debt can be negotiated
for equity. Smaller loans, packaged using similar attributes, (such as type of enterprise,
type of collateral, geographic location of borrower/collateral or loan size) are good
products for sale through either public or sealed bid auction. Loan collateral, especially
movable type, such as cars, equipment, furniture, fixtures, etc., is very conducive to
public auction on a cash and carry basis.
(g)    Bankruptcy. DEBRA management will also recognize the use of bankruptcy proceedings
as a tool or threat for collection; particularly in those cases where the borrower has the
capacity to repay but refuses to work with DEBRA. Also, the borrower may have other
assets that can be obtained through court to use in extinguishing the debt. There will also
be instances where analysis shows the borrower is not viable under any scenario and
bankruptcy may be the only viable option. However, bankruptcy and the confiscation
of collateral is an option that should be carefully considered, as certain types of
collateral may not be easily marketed and could be costly to maintain. Costs to maintain
and store collateral should  also be taken into account. These may indicate that
bankruptcy may not be a cost-effective business alternative.
103.          Farm vs. Non-Farm Debt. Certain types of debt lend themselves to some debt resolution
alternatives better than others. In the Kyrgyz case, the most significant division of debt appears to be farm
versus non-farm debt. In dealing with farm debt, the most relevant debt resolution alternatives involve
any one or a combination of: debt forgiveness, collateral exchange, and/or restructuring of debt. In
dealing with the non-farm debt, although debt forgiveness and collateral exchange may be applicable in
certain cases, the most practical alternatives are discounts, debt/equity swaps, and restructuring of debt.
These methods are also the best methods to be used by Promstroi and AKB Kyrgyzstan Banks, vis-a-vis
the debtor enterprises. (Annex D: Key Operating Principles of DEBRA).
104.          At an early stage after its establishment, but before the release of Second Tranche of
FINSAC, DEBRA will prepare a report, satisfactory to IDA, classifying the non-performing loans under
its control into two categories that will be treated differently: (i) those where the work plan for collection
will be based on automatic criteria appropriate to the loan category; and (ii) others where a more



- 27 -
systenatic case-by-case approach is practicable. This report, satisfactory to IDA, will be integrated into
the Key Operating Principles of DEBRA.
F. Encouraging the Development of NBFIs
105.         The capital markets can play an important role in the reform of transition economies, both
as a facilitator of the privatization process and in providing alternative investments for enterprises and
households. The securities market in the Kyrgyz Republic is still in an early phase of development. In
the coming years, however, the supply of securities will increase rapidly due to the corporatization and
privatization of state enterprises and due to the advantages of securitizing government borrowing. Thus,
it is important that the Government create a framework for the orderly development of these markets, not
only to raise efficiency, but to avoid the possible collapse or public distrust of markets which might occur
if they are allowed to develop in a haphazard or disorderly way.
106.         The Kyrgyz Republic's structural reform program will soon produce a larger supply of
securities, namely, equities from privatization and state bonds from the possible exchange against bad
loans. There will soon also be secondary trading of T-bills, bonds, and equities. The main problem will
be the short supply of savings to these capital markets. This calls for two sets of measures: first, making
securities more attractive by removing constraints to their profitability and giving investors confidence
in the integrity of the markets; second, laying the basis for efficient and sound contractual savings
institutions that will intermediate between small savers and the capital markets. Further efforts will also
be made to enhance public interest in mass privatization, reduce excessive taxation and deepen the
markets for Government debt instruments.
Making Securities More Attractive
107.         So far, many resources have been concentrated on establishing the infrastructure of a well-
developed stock exchange. While much has been achieved in this respect, there are no indications that
the Kyrgyz Stock Exchange can in the shorter-term be financially self-sustaining, or indeed provide the
functions mentioned above.  For the medium term, a viability assessment of the exchange would be
needed. The volume and fees of listings and of turnover should be estimated, and the resulting income
projections should be compared with the expected operating costs of the exchange. While total savings
in the economy may take a long time to recover, their mobilization into the capital markets can be
stimulated. The attractiveness of capital market investments, especially the use of privatization coupons,
could be enhanced; excessively high taxation could be cut back; and the public confidence in the orderly
functioning of the markets could be ensured.
108.         Enhancing Public Interest in Mass Privatization. By mid 1995, 72% (2.3 billion) of
issued privatization coupons remained uninvested. An additional 1.0 billion coupons have not even been
issued yet, and await sale by the State Property Fund (SPF) when it deems it possible. To stimulate the
use of coupons, a greater number of more attractive enterprises would need to be brought forward for
privatization. Stronger public education should deepen the understanding of how the coupon system can
confer value to coupon-holders, and which rates of return are realistic to expect from investments. Public
confidence in investment funds urgently needs to be bolstered, as discussed below; by mid-1995, the
investment funds had collected only some 9%, or 0.3 billion, of all coupons issued.
109.         Reducing Excessive Taxation. Current tax policy, including high corporate taxes, makes
tax avoidance dominate many business decisions. This undermines efforts to attract more listings to the



- 28 -
exchange, to properly record securities transactions, to obtain reliable disclosure, and to build fair and
transparent markets. The growth of NBFIs remains constrained, and most transactions take place on
informal capital markets. One important measure would be a tax credit or pass-through mechanism to
avoid double or treble taxation; such treble taxation occurs as taxes are levied on the profits of
corporations, then on net income of investment funds earned from post-tax dividends from those firms,
and finally again on the personal income from share-holdings in these funds. Other measures that may
warrant review are a harmonization of the tax rates on financial institutions with other enterprises and
a reduction or waiver of taxes on securities transactions.
110.         Deepening Markets for Debt Instr uent. The rapid widening and deepening of markets
for debt securities would hasten capital market development, generate more information fundamental to
the functioning of the financial markets, and facilitate the cash management of banks, contractual savings
institutions, and corporations. The creation of an organized secondary market in Treasury Bills, to be
operated by the Kyrgyz Stock Exchange, is being discussed between representatives of the NBK and the
stock exchange. Efforts are also underway to issue government bonds directly to the public through the
stock exchange, by introducing longer maturities, smaller denominations etc.
Providing a Framework for Sound Contractual Savings Institutions
111.          In mature market economies, contractual savings institutions like investment funds,
insurance companies, and pension funds mobilize large amounts of medium and long term savings. Thus
they become major sources of financing for the state and enterprises. In the process, they vastly stimulate
the capital market through which they invest. As the Kyrgyz Republic's fledgling capital markets
gradually gain scale and efficiency, such institutions should play a growing role as well. The basic
policy, legal, and taxation framework should be prepared in the meantime. Only investment funds are
already significant today, due to their role in privatization. They require careful attention to avoid
failures or fraud that could discredit contractual savings institutions at this early stage.
112.         Investment Funds. Investment funds will have a key role to play if there is to be
development of capital markets in the Kyrgyz Republic. The coupon privatization was in fact expected
to boost the emergence and growth of such funds. By mid-1995, however, the vast majority of coupons
was not yet invested at all, and of those invested, only some 30% had gone through investment funds.
Moreover, many of these funds are currently in a poor financial state. Further failures of funds and the
attendant loss of public confidence could seriously set back capital market development. The funds'
distress stems in part from the limited scope for attracting cash in exchange for shares, which is due to
the poor quality of the privatized enterprises, the 25 % limit on any fund's stake in an enterprise, and the
shortage of investable savings in the economy. Their distress results also, however, from poor fund
management and lack of effective prudential supervision. Indicative is the imprudent but widespread
practice of paying dividends in excess of earned income. Fund managers need substantial training, and
perhaps assistance, in accounting, asset/liability management, enterprise governance, and related subjects.
The recently issued Investment Fund Accounting Guidelines, which also regulate reporting and disclosure,
need to be implemented. The responsibility for the funds' supervision lies currently with SPF rather than
the State Agency for Securities (SAS), since they are "specialized" funds. However, SPF barely exercises
this function, and SAS lacks the capacity. The responsibility needs to shift to SAS, once the authority
and capabilities of SAS have been boosted under the Reform Program.
113.         Before the release of Second Tranche of FINSAC, the Ministry of Finance to review and
amend the prudential regulations for "Investment Funds," satisfactory to IDA, with a view to



- 29 -
strengthening these regulations; enhance their enforcement; and implement the recently issued Investment
Fund Accounting Guidelines.
114.         Insurance Companies. The insurance industry is currently moving away from credit
insurance, where the industry incurred major losses, and instead towards property, accident, life, and
voluntary medical insurance. Many transition economies are witnessing a rapid growth in insurance
company income and assets, and developed market economies know insurance companies as huge
investors in securities. The Kyrgyz Republic's insurance sector, too, could potentially play a major role
in the financial markets. How large a role it could play already in the near term is hard to determine.
This is because the excess reserves that could be invested in securities escape assessment, due to the
continued use of former Soviet accounting practices, the lack of transparent market values of investments,
and the likely rapid changes in the nature and maturity profile of insurance company liabilities. Measures
to enhance the development of the insurance industry would include, inter alia: the passing of a new Law
on Insurance, as discussed below; the introduction of new accounting practices; the building up of
effective prudential supervision; the transfer of skills through tolerant policies vis-a-vis foreign insurers
and reinsurers; and the easing of regulations that currently require all reserves to be kept in low interest
bank accounts.
115.         Pension Funds. So far, pension fund activity is still marginal, with only two private
funds offering their services. In the long run, however, partially or fully funded pension funds could
become major investors of household savings in the capital markets. This will depend to a considerable
extent on policies, regulations, and tax arrangements. It hinges on the degree to which they will make
membership in funded pension funds mandatory or voluntary; continue to mandate contributions to, and
provide pensions from, a public social security system; favor pension fund investments in the capital
market versus the employer firms; and so forth. At the current stage in the economic transition, it would
be wise to start reviewing some of these fundamental options for the future nature and scope of the
country's pensions system. This could be done through technical assistance to be provided. This would
then be followed by the development of policies, a Law on Pension Funds and specific regulations.
Even in the shorter term, however, the few private funds are competing for scarce savings, and fraud or
default on their part could undermine the confidence of the public in the securities markets and the
credibility of the regulatory system. The supervisory authority for pension funds therefore needs to be
clarified.
116.         Before the release of Second Tranche, a new law on Insurance Companies, and a new
Law on Pension Funds would be prepared, and existing legislation on Leasing would be improved,
satisfactory to IDA. These three new laws will be submitted to Parliament.
Safeguarding Investors' Interests
117.         Currently, there are no prudential regulations applied to the activities of non-bank
financial institutions that deal with general public such as insurance companies and pension funds. These
institutions can lead to systemic financial instability in the event of failures. In the case of the securities
market, the 1991 Law on Securities and Stock Exchanges has been amended to establish a legal
framework which could lead to an open and transparent formal trading market. Although the legal
framework is essential, enforcement of the law is also necessary. The enforcement capability of the State
Agency for Securities (SAS) is not sufficient to implement this Law. The arbitration courts are equally
unsuitable as forums for resolving the types of disputes which would arise under this law.



- 30 -
118.         The State Agency for Securities (SAS) is a small agency with huge responsibilities for
regulating and supervising capital markets and their NBFIs. It is expected to implement the Laws on
Securities and on Joint Stock Companies. Although efforts to upgrade its status and resources have
shown some results, SAS is still short of adequate authority, personnel, training, facilities, equipment and
budget. One option to address this problem would be to transform SAS into the executive arm of a
powerful Securities Commission comprising the heads of MOF, MOJ, NBK, SPF and perhaps the SAS
itself, as well as representatives from the stock exchange. The involvement and standing of these top
officials, and a strong "ownership" by the Government, would help ensure proper resources and authority
for the implementation of securities regulations. After some time, the President could appoint five full
time commissioners. It would also help to consolidate the authority for all securities markets regulations
and their supervision in one institution. With this accomplished, the SAS could be elevated to a
permanent Securities Commission. In parallel, a professional organization of brokers and dealers could
be created to promote and represent the interests of this sector.
119.         Under the Reform Program, the status of the SAS would be transformed from an
administrative agency into the executive arm of a Securities Commission, with proper resources and
authority for the development and implementation of securities regulations.
PART IV. FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Borrower and Credit Amount
120.         The Borrower is the Kyrgyz Republic. The Credit amount is SDR 31.2 million (US$45
million equivalent). This amount, which is equal to about 7% of total imports of goods required in
FY96, is necessary to maintain the momentum of stabilization and adjustment programs and, along with
other donor assistance, to help close the financing gaps of the balance of payments and the budget. The
Credit would be on standard IDA terms, with a 35-year maturity, including 10 years of grace.
Technical Assistance Requirements
121.         The successful implementation of the reform program to be supported by the FINSAC
will require substantial technical assistance to help implement bank restructuring and liquidation, resolve
problem loans, strengthen bank supervision, establish a national program of skills development in
commercial banks, train bankers in international accounting standards and auditing, develop prudential
regulations and supervision for non-bank financial institutions, and refine legal and regulatory
requirements. The total cost of this assistance has been estimated at around US$7.3 million. The
Government has stated its desire to seek grant funding for its technical assistance needs. But, given the
substantial size of this assistance and the particular urgency in several key areas of the reform program,
the Government has requested a PPF from IDA in an amount equal to US$700,000. The PPF will
finance: (i) a senior advisor to the Governor of NBK to help oversee the coordination of the reform
program as a whole; (ii) a branch system advisor to assist the NBK in directing the rationalization,
merger or sale of the selected Agroprombank and Elbank branches; and (iii) two senior foreign advisors
to help establish the Debt Resolution Agency (DEBRA). Other high priority areas which are essential
to the success of the reform program include: the continuation of training in the NBK's Department of
Bank Supervision; training in international accounting and auditing standards, both within the NBK and
in all commercial banks; improvement in payments and clearance systems nationwide; assistance to
enhance the implementation and enforcement capabilities of the State Agency for Securities; review of



- 31 -
Pension Fund schemes; and drafting of legislation for insurance companies, pension funds and leasing.
Other areas needing assistance are the establishment of a National Bankers Institute and managerial and
marketing advice to AKB Kyrgyzstan and Promstroi Bank. USAID, EBRD, ADB, the UK Know-How
Fund, and the Governments of Japan and the Netherlands have all been providing technical assistance in
the financial sector. Finland, TICA and UNDP have commnitted technical assistance funds in support of
the reform program proposed under FINSAC. The Government has agreed that a comprehensive and
fully-funded TA program will accompany the proposed FINSAC operation. At a recent special Donors'
Conference on FINSAC TA, chaired by NBK, funding arrangements for the technical assistance were
largely firmed up. An IDA Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project for the overall Program,
including an IDA credit of US$3.4 million, is being submitted to the Board for consideration,
simultaneously with the proposed FINSAC.
Disbursement
122.         The proposed Credit would be disbursed in two equal tranches. The First Tranche would
become available upon Credit effectiveness, and the Second Tranche twelve months later, based on review
by IDA of the implementation of the adjustment program as a whole and the fulfillment of the specific
Second Tranche conditions. Once the Credit is approved by the Board, the Borrower will be required
to open and maintain a Deposit Account in its central bank (NBK). As each tranche is released, the
Borrower will submit a withdrawal application, against which IDA will disburse the Credit proceeds into
the Deposit Account for the Borrower's use. If any portion of the credit is used for ineligible purposes
as defined in the Credit Agreement, IDA will require the Borrower to either (i) return that amount to the
Deposit Account for use for eligible goods and services, or (ii) refund the amount directly to the
Association, in which case IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the Credit. The
supporting documents, such as invoices and evidence of shipment and payment, will be retained by the
Project Management Unit (PMU), already established in the MOF under the PESAC operation, for
random review by Bank staff and by the auditors. PMU would be responsible for the coordination and
collection of relevant documents from the commercial banks and the foreign exchange bureaus.
Management, Reporting and Auditing
123.         The National Bank of Kyrgyzstan (NBK) will have responsibility for the overall
management of the program. A FINSAC Monitoring Unit (FMU) will be established in the NBK to
facilitate and coordinate implementation of the reform program. The FMU will establish and maintain
a Management Information System covering all aspects of project implementation. It will submit reports
to IDA one month after the end of each quarter, reporting progress in implementation and identifying
bottlenecks. The FMU will maintain records of all transactions under the Credit in accordance with sound
accounting practices. The Bank reserves the right to request an audit of the project accounts by
international auditors acceptable to IDA, in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
Monitorable Actions and Tranche Release Conditions
124.         Conditions of Board Presentation. A number of key actions have been completed prior
to Board presentation. These are listed below:



- 32 -
Improving the Policy Environment
(a)    Government to achieve satisfactory macroeconomic and fiscal performance, including
domestic bank financing of fiscal deficit in FY96.
(b)    Government to submit to Parliament a Tax Reform Bill, satisfactory to IDA, which:
(i) equalizes profit tax of enterprises and banks; (ii) allows banks to take loan-loss
provisions against gross income, before tax; and (iii) clarifies whether and which
financial transactions are subject to VAT.
(c)    Government to submit to Parliament a Tax Reform Bill, satisfactory to IDA, which: (i)
cancels the extraordinary powers given to the Tax Inspectorate in February 1994,
including in particular the seizure of deposits; (ii) cancels such powers given to other
State organs; and (iii) limits the Tax Inspectorate's and other State organs' rights (except
NBK's) to obtain information from banks to instances in which due cause justifies an
investigation.
Improving the Legal and Regulatory Environment
(d)    Borrower to prepare amendments to the Insolvency Legislation to limit the time period
given to courts to "one month" (30 days) to approve NBK's request to start the bank
liquidation process. Government to submit to Parliament the revised Insolvency
Legislation.
(e)    NBK to increase the minimum capital requirements from 5 million soms to (10) million
soms for local banks, and from 10 million to (20) million soms for foreign banks.
(f)    NBK to adopt and implement gradually the Basle guidelines for ongoing capital
adequacy (i.e., 8% of risk weighted assets).
(g)    Government to prepare and submit to Parliament the draft Law on Pledge, satisfactory
to IDA.
(h)    NBK to adopt prudential regulations which reduce the single borrower lending limit from
30% to (25 %) of capital for new banks, and put a (15%) limit on aggregate lending to
shareholders and other insiders. Special donor credit lines would be exempt from this
principle.
Restructuring Old Insolvent Specialized Banks
(i)    Government to issue a decree establishing a temporary Debt Resolution Agency
(DEBRA) to help collect or write- off the non-performing loans of intervened banks.
(j)    NBK to place the Agroprombank under receivership and start the liquidation process.
(k)    NBK to place the Elbank under receivership and start the liquidation process.



- 33 -
(I)    If the management of Promstroi Bank has been unsuccessful in raising capital from
negative to "positive" or "zero" level by mid-May 1996, NBK to instruct the bank to
present a capital increase plan to be implemented, satisfactory to NBK and IDA, to bring
the capital at least to "zero" level by October 31, 1996 and to reach 8% ongoing capital
adequacy requirement by March 31, 1997.
(m)   If the management of AKB Kyrgyzstan Bank has been unsuccessful in raising capital
from negative to "positive" or "zero" level by mid-May 1996, NBK to instruct the bank
to present a capital increase plan to be implemented satisfactory to NBK and IDA, to
bring the capital at least to "zero" level by October 31, 1996 and to reach 8% ongoing
capital adequacy requirement by March 31, 1997.
125.         Conditions for Second Tranche Release.  Disbursement of the Second Tranche,
SDR 15.6 million equivalent (US$22.5 million equivalent), anticipated in twelve months after the
disbursement of the First Tranche, would be contingent on a review, satisfactory to IDA, of (i) the
successful implementation of the reform program as a whole; and (ii) the fulfillment of the specific
Second Tranche conditions listed below:
Improving the Policy Environment
(a)    Government to achieve satisfactory macroeconomic and fiscal performance, including
domestic bank financing of fiscal deficit in FY97.
Improving the Legal and Regulatory Environment
(b)    Government to create a central registry system for pledges, satisfactory to IDA, to
enforce security rights.
(c)    Borrower to enact the Tax Reform Bill, and the new Banking Law, satisfactory to IDA.
(d)    Borrower to enact the Law on Pledge and the Revised Insolvency Legislation,
satisfactory to IDA.
(e)    NBK to introduce the new Chart of Accounts based on International Accounting
Standards (IAS) for all commercial banks, and enforce the implementation of these
accounts in at least 5 commercial banks.
(f)    NBK to enforce 25% maximum single borrower limit to all banks.
(g)    Government to complete coupon auctions for all enterprises included in the 1996-97
Privatization Program; and reduce State ownership to a minority share in a minimum of
(320) enterprises included in the 1996-97 Privatization Program, except in the major
utilities that have individual privatization plans.
(h)    ERRA to (i) offer all potentially viable enterprises for sale; and (ii) initiate liquidation
procedures for all "old enterprises", and all others slated for liquidation. No funds will
be allocated to ERRA enterprises from the 1997 Budget, except for completion of the
liquidation process.



- 34 -
(i)    Government to fulfill all of the Second Tranche conditions of APEAC, thus enabling
IDA to release the Second Tranche of APEAC operation.
Restructuring Insolvent Old Specialized Banks
(j)    DEBRA to (i) assess the value of Elbank and Agroprom's assets; (ii) transfer all
recoverable loan assets of both banks into the Debt Recovery Unit (DRU); (iii) reduce
staff levels and close or sell bank branches for both banks as recommended by NBK
Working Group; and (iv) submit a timetable to FINSAC Review Commission and IDA
for completion of liquidation of Elbank and Agroprombank.
(k)    NBK is due 965 million Soms from Agroprombank. This amount represents a bad debt
on the books of NBK. To make the balance sheet of NBK whole again, this amount
would be replaced, at the Government's option, by a long-term bond of 965 million Soms
at 5% interest rate, as described in the Letter of Financial Sector Development Policy.
(1)    If the management of Promstroi Bank and AKB Kyrgyzstan have not been successful
in raising capital from negative to "positive" or "zero" level by March 31, 1997, NBK
to place the bank(s) under formal receivership, to start the liquidation process. If bank(s)
have been successful in raising capital to "positive" or "zero" level by March 31, 1997,
NBK to instruct the bank(s) to present another capital increase plan to reach 8% ongoing
capital adequacy requirement by September 30, 1997.
Resolving the Non-Perforning Loans
(m)   DEBRA to prepare a report, satisfactory to IDA, classifying the non-performing
loans under its control into two categories that will be treated differently: (i) those loans
where the work plan for collection will be based on automatic criteria appropriate to the
loan category; and (ii) others where a more systematic case-by-case approach is
practicable. This report, satisfactory to IDA, will be integrated into the Key Operating
Principles of DEBRA.
Encouraging the Growth of NBFIs
(n)    Ministry of Finance to review and amend the prudential regulations for "Investment
Funds", satisfactory to IDA, with a view to strengthening these regulations; enhance their
enforcement; and implement the recently issued Investment Fund Accounting Guidelines.
(o)    Government to prepare and submit to Parliament legislation for "Insurance Companies"
and "Pension Funds," and "Leasing," satisfactory to IDA.
PART V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
126.         Benefits. The reform program to be supported by the proposed FINSAC would help
create a competitive, sound and efficient banking system in the Kyrgyz Republic. By liquidating insolvent
banks and restructuring the problem banks, a smaller, more efficient, better managed, and privately-
owned banking system would emerge. A prudent and efficient banking system, together with a sound



- 35 -
policy and regulatory framework and appropriate prudential standards, would improve public confidence
in financial institutions. Enforcement of financial discipline resulting from the proposed reforms within
the banking sector would encourage a similar discipline within the enterprise sector, fostering a healthy
adjustment and renewed growth in this sector, which in turn could contribute to the stabilization objective.
In addition, the development and enforcement of a regulatory and supervisory framework along with a
supporting policy environment would encourage the development of sound contractual savings
organizations such as insurance companies and pension funds, which would be instrumental in mobilizing
additional savings. The provision of substantial technical assistance to the financial system, strengthening
of accounting, auditing and bank management and training, will have significant benefits for the
development of sound credit policies and managerial decision-making in both the banking and the
enterprise sectors, as the Kyrgyz economy continues to move away from the practices and constraints of
the former Soviet Union. Finally, the proposed Credit would allow increased production and capacity
utilization, through the provision of foreign exchange resources and budget support to help finance
purchases of inputs, raw materials, spare parts and services.
127.         Risks. The Credit faces four major risks. The first is that the Government may not be
able to achieve one of its critical macroeconomic objectives, namely to sustain macroeconomic stability.
High and sustained budget deficits may continue to threaten macro/financial stability and drive up interest
rates further. If price stability is not sustained, the lowering of interest rates would be difficult.
Therefore, both the reduction of fiscal deficits and their financing through non-inflationary sources are
critical elements to the success of the program. The second risk relates to the complexity of undertaking
a massive restructuring of the banking system which requires not only the strong commitment of the
Government but also the full cooperation of the banks' management. Third, the liquidation of
Agroprombank and Elbank, and the downsizing/restructuring of AKB Kyrgyzstan and Promstroi banks,
may proceed more slowly than anticipated, if the bank restructuring component encounters political
resistance. Fourth and finally, a slowdown or reversal in enterprise reform would have adverse effects
on the loan quality of the banking sector, as would delays in the establishment of a framework for
secured lending which is outside the control of NBK. The first, third and the fourth risks would be
mitigated largely by the Government's strong commitment to the IMF/IDA supported stabilization and
structural adjustment programs. Technical assistance to be provided under the Credit would help to
reduce the second risk, although would not fully mitigate it. Finally, proposed improvement of the
regulatory framework and strengthening of Central Bank supervisory functions are expected to ensure the
competitiveness, efficiency, and soundness of the banking system in the future.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
128.         I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Washington, D.C.
May 31, 1996



-  36  -                                              Policy Matrix
Page 1 of 6
KYRGYZ REPtBLIC - FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (FINSAC)
SUIWARY OF GOVERINENMT REFORM PROGRAN
OBJECTIVES                MEASURES ALREADY                             FINSAC                    TIMING     COWITIOK
INTRCEUCED                           ACTION PROGRAI                               FOR
A.  IWNOVING THE ElABLING POLICY AH) REGULATORY ENVIROIMENT
(a) POLICY ENVIROIUENT
1 .    S u s t a i n    - Monthly  inflation    - Government to achieve satisfactory   6/96                 Board
Macroeconomic    in   the   March-July    macroeconomic and fiscaL performance,                              Presentation
Stability.                 1995 period averaged    including domestic bank  financing  of
1  percent.    Annual    fiscal deficit in FY96.
average    inflation
rate in 1995 was 30    - Government to achieve satisfactory   6/97                Second Tranche
percent.                  macroeconomic performance in FY97.                      ReLease
2.   Remove   PoLicy                                 - Government to submit to Parliament   6/96             Board
Induced  Barriers  to                                the Tax Reform Bill, satisfactory to                   Presentation
Bank   Profitability,                                IDA, which: (a) equalizes profit tax of
Efficiency    and                                    enterprises and banks; (b) allows banks
Security.                                            to take  loan-loss provisions against
gross income, before tax; and, (c)
clarifies whether and which financial
transactions are subject to VAT.
-  Government to submit to ParLiament   6/96           Board
the Tax Reform BiLL which: (i) canceLs                 Presentation
the extraordinary powers given to the
Tax Inspectorate in February 1994,
including in particular the seizure of
deposits; (ii) cancels such powers
given to other State organs; and (iii)
limits the Tax Inspectorate's and other
State organs' rights (except NBK) to
obtain  information   from   banks  to
instances in which due cause justifies
3.   Encourage   the    -The current Law on    an investigation.
deveLFp ent   of   a    Foreign    Investment
competitive    mrket    (1991)    does    not
structure  for batks    create impediments to
by removing entry and    entry   of   foreign
exit barriers;            banks, and provides 5
siaplifying licensing    year tax holiday to
procedures;    and    foreign investors.
proting the entry
of foreign batks.         -  Under  the  PESAC
Reform Program, the
Borrower enacted the
B a n k r u p t c y
Legislation providing
exit  mechanisms  for
insolvent enterprises           (b). LEGAL AID REULATORY
and banks.                           ENVIRONMENT
1. Establish a Legal    -  Under  the  PESAC    - Prepare amendments to the new draft   3/96                Appraisal
and    reguLatory    Reform  Program,  the    Banking Law (a) requiring banks to be
framwork  to  ensure    Government  prepared    exclusively joint stock companies; and
prudent banking, and    draft    laws    on    (b) entitling NBK to set up Limitations
strenthen the powers    Company, Lease,              on Banks':  single currency holdings;
of NSK as the             Collateral and Public    real  estate  holdings;  dealings  in
s u p e r v i a o r y    Procurement.                precious metals or jewelry other than
authority.



Policy Matrix
-37                                                  Page 2 of 6
OJECTIVES                    EASLRES ALREADY                              FINSAC                    TIMING      COGITION
INTRDCD                                ACTION PROGRA                                 FOR
-Under   the   APEAC    bullion or coins of a minimum purity;
Reform  Program,  the    and, transactions with affiliates and
Government        will    other connected parties.
submit to Parliament
the   draft   law   on    - Borrower to enact the Tax Reform Bill   6/97            Second
Company;  the  draft    and the new Banking Law, satisfactory                        Tranche Release
law   on   Collateral      to IDA.
providi ng    i n
particular that land
2.      Enance   the    may   be   used   as    -  Government to submit to Parliament   6/96                    Board
Security in lenidirn.      collateral;         the     the draft Law on Pledge, satisfactory                    Presentation
amendment to the Law    to IDA.
(a)  St.erwthen   the    on  Lease;  and  the
tl,jmudicial,   md        draft  law on Public        -  Government to prepare amendments to   6/96            Board
registry    framework    Procurement.           In    the Insolvency Legislation to limit the                   Presentation
for   the   use   of    add i t i on,         t h e    time period given  to courts  to "one
plebas      nd    the    Government    wi l l    month"  (30  days)  to  approve  NBK's
hwdliru of inmolvent    prepare and submit to    request to start the bank liquidation
borraris.                  Parliament  a  draft    process.    Government  to  submit  to
Civil Code (Part I),    Parliament   the   revised   Insolvency
the contents of which      Legislation.
will  be  consistent
with  the draft  laws    - Borrower to enact the Law on Pledge,   6/97               Second
L isted    above .    and the Revised Insolvency Legislation,                       Tranche Release
F i n a I I y    t h e    satisfactory to IDA.
Government witl  take
al L   the   necessary     -    Government  to  create  a  central    6/97           Second
measures  to  clarify      registry    system    for    pledges,                     Tranche Release
the  rights  to  land    satisfactory   to   IDA,   to   enforce
and  the  procedures    security rights.
under   which    such
rights    shall    be
freely transferable.
(b) Create  a vi ble                                   -   Government   to   complete   coupon   6/97           Second
private sector client                                  auctions for all enterprises included                    Tranche Release
base  that  operatea                                   in the 1996-97 Privatization Program,
u n d e r    market                                    and   reduce   State  ownership  to   a
principles  wid seeks                                  minority share  in a minimum  of (320)
profft bility.                                         enterprises  included  in  the  1996-997
Privatization Program, except in the
major utilities that have individual
privatization plans.
- ERRA  to  (a) offer all potentially   6/97             Second
viable ERRA enterprises for sale; and                    Tranche Release
(b) initiate liquidation procedures for
all "old enterprises", and all others
slated for liquidation. No funds will
be allocated to ERRA enterprises from
the 1997 Budget, except for completion
of the liquidation process.
-   Government to fulfill  the Second   6/97             Second
Tranche  conditions  of  APEAC,  thus                    Tranche Release
enabling IDA to release the Second
Tranche of APEAC.
3. Tighten Prudetlal                                   - NBK to increase the minimmn capital   6/96             Board
Regulations                                            requirements  from  5 to  (10) million                   Presentation
of luks.                                               soms for local banks, and from 10 to
(20) million soms for foreign banks.



-  38 -                                                PoLicy Matrix
Page 3 of 6
OBJECTIVES                NEASJRES ALREADY                            FINSAC                   TIMING    COSIITION
INTRODIEED                           ACTION PROGRN                               FM
- A  number  of  new    - NBK to adopt and implement graduaLly   6/96            Board
p r u d e n t i a I    the  BasIe  guidelines   for  ongoing                     Presentation
reguLations    have    capitaL  adequacy  (i.e.,  8%  of  risk
recently been adopted    weighted assets).
by the NBK.   These
incLude  minimum  and    - NBK to reduce the single borrower   6/96             Board
ongoing    capital        Lending limit from 30 to (25) percent                  Presentation
a d  e q  u a c y    of capital  for new banks, and put a
r eq u i r em e n t s ;    (15) percent limit on aggregate lending
Liquidity ratios and    to  sharehoLders  and  other  insiders.
reserve requirements;    Special  donor credit  lines would be
loan   classification    exempt from this principle.
and    provisioning
guidelines;    forex
exposure Limits; and    - NBK to enforce 25 percent maximum   6/97               Second
lending      Limits    single borrower Limit to all banks.                       Tranche ReLease
incLuding lending to
shareholders and to a
single borrower.
Guidelines        for
p r o b l e m - b a n k
intervention    have
also been issued.
4.  Strengthen  NBi's    -    N B K    h a s    - Further strengthen Bank Supervision
Bank    Supervision    considerably                 Department's capabilities, particularly
capabilities.             improved   its   bank    in the areas of on-site examinations,
s u p e r v i s i o n    and problem bank monitoring.
capabilities.     The
quality    of    bank
supervision  in  the
Republic    compares
favorably with that
of the neighboring
countries.
5. Strengthen Banks
Institutionally
(a)        Introduce                                - NBK to introduce the new Chart of   6/97             Second
adequate    Bank                                    Accounts   based   on   International                  Tranche Release
accounting    and                                   Accounting  Standards  (IAS)  for  all
auditing                                            commercial  banks,  and  enforce  the
implementation of these accounts in at
least 5 commercial banks.
(b) Improve clearing                                - Establish regional  clearing houses
and  settlement  and                                which would transmit netted end-of-day
liquidity eniamment.                                positions  to  NBK  where  the  final
settlement wouLd take place.
B. RESTRUCTURING INSOLVENT OLD
SPECIALIZED BANKS
1.        Liquaideting    -   A   "Specialized    - Place Agroprombank into formal NBK   3/96              Appraisal
Agroprobn                 A u d i t "    o f    conservatorship;
Agroprombank        is
currently    being    - CompLete diagnostic audit  of  loan   3/96              AppraisaL
conducted    by    an    portfolio, and analyze the composition
i n t e r n a t i on a I    of deposit base;
auditing    firm,
financed by IDA.  It



-  39  -                                                Policy Matrix
Page 4 of 6
OBJECTIVES                  EASUJtES ALREADY                            FINSAC                   TIMING      WIDITIGE
INTROW(EDW                           ACTION PROAM                                 FMN
aims to (a) establish     - Establish a Working Group at the NBK    3/96          Appraisal
true    f i nanc i a l    to  monitor  Agroprom  branch  network
position of the Bank    analysis carried out by international
according to [AS; and    auditors;
(b)   evaluate   its
branch      network        -  Goverrunent  to  issue   a  decree   6/96           Board
according to criteria    establishing    the    FINSAC    Review                  Presentation
specified.                Comittee, to be chaired by the Prime
Minister, to oversee and coordinate the
implementation  of  the  FINSAC  Reform
Program as a whole.
- NBK to estabLish the Debt ResoLution   6/96          Board
Agency  (DEBRA)  to  help  colLect  or                 Presentation
write-off the old non-performing loans
of intervened banks.
- NBK to place Agroprombank under the   6/96           Board
receivership of Debt ResoLution Agency                 Presentation
(DEBRA),  to  start  the  liquidation
process;
- NBK  is due 965 million Soms from   6/97             Second
Agroprombank. This amount represents a                 Tranche ReLease
bad debt on the books of NBK. To make
the balance sheet of NBK whole again,
Government to replace this amount by a
long-term bond of 965 million Soms at 5
percent interest rate, as described in
the   Letter   of   Financial   Sector
Development Policy (LFSDP).
- DEBRA  to (a) assess the value of   6/97             Second
Agroprombank's assets; (b) transfer all                Tranche Release
recoverable loan assets into the Debt
Recovery Unit (DRU); (c) reduce staff
levels and close or sell bank branches;
and (d) subnit a timetable to FINSAC
Review   Commission   and   IDA   for
completion    of    liquidation    of
Agroprombank.
2. Liquidating Elbak    - ELbank is currently    - Establish a Task Force in the Elbank   3/96               Appraisal
under NBK's "Special    to finalize the actual breakdown and
Care"    program,    amount of deposit Liabilities of the
managed    by    a    bank;
temporary        "N8K
Adninistrator".            - Complete the design of Deposit Pay-   3/96           Appraisal
off Scheme;
- A deposit pay-off
scheme    is    being    -  NBK  to  pLace  Elbank  under  the   6/96             Board
prepared with TA from    receivership  of DEBRA,  to start the                    Presentation
British    Know-How        Liquidation process;
Fund.
- DEBRA  to  (a) assess the value of   6/97            Second Tranche
Elbank's  assets;  (b)  transfer  al L                 Release
recoverable loan assets into the Debt
Recovery Unit (DRU); (c) reduce staff
levels and cLose or sell bank branches;
and (d) submit a timetable to FINSAC
Review   Commission   and   IDA   for
completion of liquidation of Elbank.



_  40  -                                                 Poticy Matrix
Page 5 of 6
OBJECTIVES                 PEASRMES ALREADY                              FINSAC                     TIMING      COMDITION
INTRODUCED                            ACTION PROGRAM                                 FOR
3.    Doemsizing  wid    - The Promstroi Bank    - Complete  the diagnostic  audits  of   3/96                  AppraisaL
Restructuring              is  currently  being    Promstroi and AKS Kyrgyzstan Banks;
Promtroi   And   AKB    a u d i t e d    b y
Kyrgyzstan Banks           I n t e r n a t i o n a I    - Banks'  Managements  (BMs)  to enter   3/96           AppraisaL
Auditors, financed by    into a formal Letter agreement with NBK
ADS.                       to initiate specific actions  for the
funding  of  aLL  required   loan-loss
- The AKB Kyrgyzstan       reserves  and  write-off  of  alL  Loss
Bank   is   currently      loans against capitaL account by mid-
being  audited  by an    March 1996;
I n t e r n a t i o n a l
Auditing        Firm,
financed by IDA.           - BMs to write off all loans classified
as Loss;
-  BMs  to  fund  required   loan-loss
reserves as per NBK classification of
remaining Loan assets;
- BMs and NBK to determine total
capital requirements of the bank(s)
after above actions are taken to bring
bank capital back to at Least "zero"
Level;
- If the Management of Promstroi Bank   6/96             Board
has  not  been  successful  in  raising                  Presentation
capital from negative to "positive" or
to "zero" level by mid-May, 1996, NBK
to instruct the bank to present a
capital    increase    plan    to    be
implemented. satisfactory to NBK and
IDA, to bring the capital at least to
"zero" level by October 31, 1996 and to
reach   8   percent   ongoing   capital
adequacy requirement by March 31, 1997.
- If the Management of AKB Kyrgyzstan   6/96             Board
Bank has not been successful in raising                  Presentation
capital from negative to "positive" or
to "zero" leveL by mid-May, 1996, NBK
to instruct the bank to present a
capital    increase    plan    to    be
implemented. satisfactory to NBK and
IDA, to bring the capital at least to
"zero" Level by October 31, 1996 and to
reach  8%  ongoing  capitaL  adequacy
requirement by March 31, 1997.
- If the Managements of Promstroi and   6/97             Second
AKB  Kyrgyzstan  Banks  have  not  been                  Tranche Release
successful in raising capital from
negative to "positive" or "zero" level
by March 31, 1997, NBK to place the
bank(s) under formal receivership, to
start the liquidation process. If the
bank(s) have been successful in raising
capital to "positive" or "zero" LeveL
by March 31, 1997, NBK to instruct the
bank(s) to present another capitaL
increase pLan to reach 8% ongoing
capitaL   adequacy    requirement    by
September 30, 1997.



-  41  -                                              Poticy Matrix
Page 6 of 6
OBJECTIVES                NEASURES ALREADY                             FINSAC                    TIMING    COIWITION
INTRODUCED                           ACTION PROGRMA                               FOR
4      Resolving  the                                 -   DEBRA to prepare a report at an   6/97             Second
nan-performing toarts                                early  stage,  satisfactory  to  IDA,                   Tranche Release
classifying the non-performing Loans
under its control into two categories
that will be treated differently: (i)
those loans where the work plan for
collection will be based on automatic
criteria   appropriate   to  the   loan
category; and, (ii) others where a more
systematic case-by-case approach is
practicable. This report, satisfactory
to IDA, wilL be integrated into the Key
Operating Principles of DEBRA.
C. ENCOURAGING THE DEVELOPMENT AND
GROWTH OF
NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
1     Establish                                      -     Borrower  to  (a)  prepare  new   6/97            Second
PrudentiaL Nors and                                   legisLation for "Insurance Companies"                  Tranche Release
Regulations    for                                   and "Pension Funds"; and (b)  improve
NBFIs.                                               existing  legislation  on  "Leasing",
satisfactory to IDA, and submit these
legislation to Parliament.
-  Ministry of Finance to review and   6/97            Second
amend the prudential  regulations  for                 Tranche Release
"Investment Funds", satisfactory to
IDA, with a view to strengthening these
regulations; enhance their enforcement;
and  implement  the  recently  issued
Investment Fund Accounting Guidelines.
2.    Strengthen    -   The state Agency    - Transform SAS into the executive arm
P r u d e n t i a I    for Securities (SAS)    of a Securities Commission.   Prepare
Supervision of NBFs.    is  responsible  for    guidelines  for  its  operations,  and
regulating        and    consolidate  the  authority  for  all
supervising   capital    securities market regulations and their
markets   and   their    supervision in this institution.
NBFIs.
3.    Improve    the                                 - Encourage  Regional  cooperation  in
efficiency    and                                    securities market;
profitability    of
Kyrgyz Stock Exchae                                  -   Restore   public   confidence   in
(tSE)                                                Investment Funds.
- Create an organized secondary market
for T-Bills, to be operated by the KSE;
- Issue government bonds directly to
the public through the KSE.
FAS
05/18/96



- 42 -
Annex A
Kyrgyz Republic at a glance                                                                  Page 1 of 7
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                Kyrgyz   Central    Low-
Republic      Asia  Income      Development dismonld
PopulaIon mid-1994 (mlons)                            4.5       498    3.176                Lif expectancy
GNP per capia 1994 (USS)                             610      2,430      390
GNP 1994 (bons USS)                                   2.7     1,209    1,239
Average annual growth, 1990-94
Populton (X)                                          0.6       0.5      18.6\
Ldborfhrce ()                                                            1 .8    GNP                                Grsmu
per                              primay
Moat rece nt esmate latest yer avaiable lW S 1989)                               capita                         enrolima.m
Povrty: hesdcount index (% of popuSaion)
Urban populaon (X of total popuie3wn)                 39         64       26
Llh expectancy at beth yars)                          6a         69       65
Inant marlilty (we 1.O0O  ve hris)                     36        19       53
Chid mawnulon (X of cdfn wudor 6)                           ..            38              Acce to safe water
Acces to sale water (% of popuralon)                                      67
Ilitacy (% of popxdason ao 15+)                        3                  41
Gow prtnry enrolk,n (% o sol-age poptiaon)              ..       97      106       -Kyrgyz Repubic
Male                                                           97      112       -Lowincome group
Female                                                         97      100
KEY ECONOMIC RATiOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    13SU       1194     1993
Economic  tos
GDP (lons USS)                                        3.0       2.7
Gros domestic InvesirrnvGOP                          30.5                                 Openness of economy
Exports of goods and non-factor servlkGDP
Gs domesdc savlGDP                                   13.8
Gross  nonal savingaiGOP
Cunwnt ccourt balncdiGDP                                      -18.6   -13.5      Savings                      Invesbtmnt
Intr  psymsts/GDP                                                ' S     1 1.2
T otl detdUGDP                                                 40.8    33.5
Tot dedt  rapotps                                               4.9    22.0
PS s    value of dobt/GDP
Pnrs  ntvaluedofdebt/exports                                  122.8   138.4                  lndebtednes
19784-4  1988-6     133      11"8  138"44
(avrage annu  growf)
GOP                                 3.9    -3.7    -26.5                           -Kyrgyz Rpublik
GNP pr cplkb                                -4.9    -26.                           -  Low-income group
Exports of goods and nf a
STRUCTURE o1 the ECONOMY
(XdfGDP)                                   1376    135         1SS4    1196       Growth raIt of cupvtand lnveanrt
Agriculture                                          307       37.1 
Indstry                                                        29.9       /.
Manufacturing
Servlcee                                                       33.0.
Private consumption                                  64.1
General govenment cnumption                          22.1
Impors of goods an non-factor sevces                           477                           -GO'        GDP
1376S4  198895       1394     1065
(average nnua grW)
Agrbcu..e
Industy
Manu..a..u..n.
Servk                                         .         .         .        .
Private consumption                                   0.3
General govemment consumption                        -1t 
Grou domestic hwestmsnt                              81
Impwr of goods NW norfaor ervices
Gros ntonal product                                 -37       -2^6.5
Note: 1998 date m prelirInary estimtes. Figum ih islic ae tfor yar other than those spoced.
- The diliirns h ftour 1y WdIslrs In tse tmuy (In bold) tcorr d wfth It Inome up avrag. if data a msnIan, the danond wt
be hiorplt.



- 43 -                                                      Annex A
Page 2 of 7
PRICES and GOVERNMET FINANCE
1975    198        It4      111 111     hdm (Y.
DometIc pries
Conrner prls                                   ..               87.2     32.6
Implil GDP defltr                            -2.3   -10.3      155.5     47.3
Govwrmn flnance
O%  f GOP)
Curn revenue                                   ..        .      21.7     15.7              o2
Cuwnt bdget b     e                             ..Misr"
Ov _a supiuaftI                                ..       ..       8.0    .11.3                -Go  df.   CP
TRADE
1975    1          Iad 1n64  16 96           d   h               MI
embn USV)
Tdotl exports (fob)                            ..       ..       340      391     OO0
n.a.                                          ..                                 oo
n.a.                                          .        .         .         .     oo          
Manufacure
Tot..pr(l                                       ..      .. ..459   * 4   _
Food                                          .2
Fuel ndeergy                                                    73       39
Capita goods                                                                     100
Expol  prbi index (1987.100)                   ..       ..
Twms of tds (1967-100)                         ..                                                         a . .t*11
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1971    1965       1994     1695      Cunootmwmui bdnoeioOG loP %f
-xport of goods wid nor-fator  vic..                    ..       340      391           a          .- I I         S.   "I
imports ogoods cnd non-acor sev...                               484      587          U n        H I
Resoume be. .ce                                                 -144     -195      4
Net htar i1come                                                  -17      -22
Not a oent trosfen.                                               29       79    .1o
Current mount belmno_.
before oil ,'   sfners                                        -191      -220
FhwnncI  tms (not)                                               227      349
ChAqg  in net raswe.                                             -18      -45
Memo:
Re        IchdIn god (Mn. US$)                                    54       99
Convweon rate UocalVSS)                                          3.9     10.5
EXTERNiAL DEST and RESOURCE FLOWS
1675    1s8        1693     16"4       a ul1 a4          W       dUSS
(miEs  USS)
Total deb out4nhg and dsbuned                                    291      417
IBRO                                                             0        0                       13
IDA                                                            23        60                               99
Total debt sev.c                                                   5       17
lBRD                                                             0        0
IDA                                                              0        0                                      c
Compoeston of not resource fkos                                                                                    78
O0cia gra.t.                                                    63       77
OMci creditors                                                  94       97
PrSvt codItors                                                   0        0              E                      D
Forgn dlct hn      t                         ..ne.               0       45                                     12
PVoWlolo quy                                 ..       ..         0        0
dSank pBoog
Cornmbn                                      ..       ..        60       95      A - lUtD                     E -1
Dbseents                                     ..       ..        23       36       - l0t    D- OUIermsi        F - _
P lrep  In-lts                               ..       ..         0 .      0      C - IUF                      G -Sod-Wm
Not                                          ..       ..        23       36
Itre  pmt                                    ..       ..         0        0
Nttfs                                        ..       ..        23       36
lntwnal Economics Depatment                                                                                          2m208
Note: E0stiasrom  ies a d  for meSovIet Union  eosup   to more  the usuS LAngt undartmir".



- 44 -                                         Annex A
Page 3 of 7
Table A-1. Selected Economic Indicators, 1994-98
(In percent chanee, unless otherwise indicated)
1994        1995         1996         1997        1998
Act.        Est.         Proj.       Proj.        Proj.
GDP, nominal (in billions of soms)          11.6         17.4        21.4         24.4         26.5
Real GDP growth                            -26.5          1.3         2.4          4.1          5.0
GDP deflator                               155.5         47.6        20.3          9.5          3.6
Consumer price inflation
(December/December)                       87.2         30.3        15.1          8.0          4.0
Average real wage (1992=100)                44.0         51.0        49.0         50.0         50.0
Total revenue (including foreign grants)/GDP
21.7        15.7         17.8         19.1        19.6
Tax revenue/GDP                             14.0         13.2         14.5        17.7         18.8
Total expenditure and net lending/ GDP      29.7         27.0        23.3         22.8         22.3
Budget deficit/GDP                           -8.0       -11.3        -5.5         -3.7         -2.7
Broad money                                125.3         70.1        37.3         28.5         16.2
Net domestic assets of the banking system 1/    83.5     91.4        38.2         25.7         13.8
of which: net credit to Government 2/     45.2         92.1        34.7         15.6          8.5
credit to the economy           62.1         21.1          8.6        12.5          6.4
Velocity of broad money
(ratio, end-of-period)                    10.2          8.5         7.1          6.3          5.9
Treasury bill rate (per annum, end-of-period)    73.0    29.0         --          --           --
External current account
(in millions of U.S. dollars) 3/        -190.6      -219.1       -280.8       -260.6      -251.0
External current account/GDP 3/            -18.6        -13.5       -14.0        -11.4        -10.0
External current account/GDP (incl. off.
transfers)                               -11.2         -7.2        -9.3         -7.8         -6.8
Gross international reserves
(including gold)
(in months of imports, end-of-period)      2.6         2.3          3.0          3.4          3.6
External debt outstanding/GDP 4/            40.6         34.0        37.0         40.0        42.6
Debt service
(in millions of U.S. dollars) 5/          18.0        88.3         69.4         81.7        89.4
Of which: interest                        17.4        21.6         21.3         24.9        28.8
Total debt service/total exports             4.9         22.0        16.9         18.3         18.4
Sources: Policy Framework Paper, 1995-98, Sec M95-1235, Dec. 5, 1995.
1/       As a percent of beginning period broad money.
2/       Includes a credit from Turkey channeled through the NBK to the budget, excludes NBK profit transfers.
3/       Excludes grants.
4/       Includes debt accumulated to fill projected financing gaps.
5/       Includes debt service on ftnancing gap under the assumption of highly concessionary terms.



45-                                   Annex A
Page 4 of 7
Table A-2(a). KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Summary of Government Financial Operations, 1993-96
(In millions of Soms)
1993         1994         1995          1996
Actual       Actual         Est.         Proj.
Total revenue and grants                1,330.0      2,503.2       2,721.5       3,803.7
Total revenue                          868.5        2,200.6      2,624.5       3,537.5
Current revenue                      859.9        2,148.0       2,551.4       3,469.9
Tax revenue                         771.5       1,615.0       2,291.9       3,109.4
Direct Taxes                      300.2         651.3         705.0       1,023.9
Domestic taxes on goods and services   305.3    744.1       1,078.7       1,526.5
Taxes on international trade       30.9          45.5         132.2          --
Other tax revenue                 135.2         174.1         375.9         559.1
Nontax revenue                       88.4         533.0        259.5         360.5
Capital revenue                         8.6          52.6         73.1          67.6
Grants                                 461.5         302.6          97.0         266.3
Total expenditure                       2,103.3       3,431.5      4,685.5       4,983.6
Current expenditure                   1,554.6       2,752.3      4,455.0       4,613.2
Wages and salaries                    280.9         787.5       1,269.7       1,204.7
Goods and services                    350.9         777.8       1,866.3       1,845.2
Subsidies 1/                         311.6          319.0         --            --
Transfers 2/                          592.5         753.3       1,248.2       1,381.6
Extraordinary fund                     18.7          90.5         --            --
Interest on public debt                --            24.2         70.8         181.7
Capital Expenditure                     75.0          116.7        108.8         213.0
Net lending                            473.7         562.6         121.7         157.5
SURPLUS( + )/DEFICIT(-)                 -773.3        -928.4      -1,963.9      -1,179.9
FINANCING                                773.3         928.4       1,963.9       1,179.9
External                               353.2         515.1         547.9         267.4
New loans                            353.2          515.1       1,124.4        745.5
Amortization                           --            --         -576.5        -478.1
Domestic                               420.1         413.3       1,416.0         912.5
Net Central Bank Credit              373.4          349.1       1,325.0        884.2
New loans                           421.3         397.6       1,325.0        884.2
Amortization                        47.9          -48.5          --           --
Net Commercial Bank Credit            46.7           64.2         91.0          28.3
Memo: Grants + New External Loans        814.7         817.7        1221.4        1011.8
Source: IMF, ESAF Board Paper, November 1995
1/ Most direct consumer subsidies were eliminated after 1994. The bread compensation is included in
overall transfers.
2/ After 1994, includes budgetary transfers for food or medicine; cash transfers, the bread compensation,
supplemental pensions, and social allowances paid from the budgets; and educational stipends.



- 46 -                                   Anex A
Page 5 of 7
Table A-2(b). KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Summary of Government Financial Operations, 1993-96
(In percent of GDP)
1993         1994          1995          1996
Actual       Actual         Est.          Proj.
Total revenue and grants                    23.3          21.7          15.7          17.8
Total revenue                              15.2         19.1          15.1          16.5
Current revenue                          15.0         18.6          14.7          16.2
Tax revenue                            13.5         14.0          13.2           14.5
Direct Taxes                          5.2          5.6           4.1           4.8
Domestic taxes on goods and services  5.3          6.4           6.2            7.1
Taxes on international trade          0.5          0.4           0.8           --
Other tax revenue                     2.4           1.5          2.2            2.6
Nontax revenue                          1.5          4.6           1.5            1.7
Capital revenue                           0.1          0.5           0.4           0.3
Grants                                     8.1           2.6           0.6           1.2
Total expenditure                           36.8          29.7          27.0          23.3
Current expenditure                       27.2          23.8          25.7          21.6
Wages and salaries                        4.9          6.8           7.3           5.6
Goods and services                        6.1          6.7          10.7           8.6
Subsidies 1/                             5.4           2.8          --            --
Transfers 2/                             10.4          6.5           7.2           6.5
Extraordinary fund                       0.3           0.8          --            --
Interest on public debt                  --            0.2           0.4           0.8
Capital Expenditure                         1.3          1.0           0.6           1.0
Net lending                                8.3           4.9           0.7           0.7
SURPLUS(+)/DEFICIT(-)                      -13.5          -8.0         -11.3          -5.5
FINANCING                                   13.5           8.0          11.3           5.5
External                                   6.2           4.5           3.2           1.3
New loans                                6.2           4.5           6.5           3.5
Amortization                             --            --           -3.3          -2.2
Domestic                                   7.3           3.6           8.2           4.3
Net Central Bank Credit                  6.5           3.0           7.6           4.1
New loans                               7.4          3.4           7.6           4.1
Amortization                           -0.8         -0.4           --           --
Net Commercial Bank Credit               0.8           0.6           0.5           0.1
Memo: Grants + New External Loans           14.3           7.3          7.1            4.7
(Net of amortization)               (14.3)        (7.3)         (3.8)          (2.5)
Source: IMF, ESAF Board Paper, November 1995
1/ Most direct consumer subsidies were eliminated after 1994. The bread compensation is included in
overall transfers.
2/ After 1994, includes budgetary transfers for food or medicine; cash transfers, the bread compensation,
supplemental pensions, and social allowances paid from the budgets; and educational stipends.



- 47 -                                    Annex A
Page 6 of 7
Table A-3. KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Balance of Payments Projections, 1994-1998
(In millions of U.S. dollars)
1994      1995       1996       1997       1998
Actual      Est.      Proj.      Proj.      Proj.
Current account
(after official grants)          -114.1     -115.9    -186.0    -190.6    -181.0
Trade balance                      -119.0    -154.1    -218.2    -220.8    -213.4
Exports                             339.9      391.4      418.9      446.0      484.7
Imports                             458.9      545.5      637.1      666.8      698.2
Net noninterest services             -7.2      -19.5      -16.1       -1.9       -1.3
Interest payments                   -17.4      -21.6      -21.3      -24.9      -28.8
Transfers                            29.4       79.3       69.6       57.0       62.5
Capital account                     160.5      135.1      196.9      207.0      187.4
Foreign direct investment         44.9       88.2       40.0       42.0       44.1
Commercial banks                   4.8      -24.5        --         --         --
Medium- and long-term loans       110.8      71.4       156.9      165.0      143.3
Disbursements (existing and
expected)                   111.4      138.1      201.0      211.0      191.0
Amortization                         -0.6      -66.7      -44.0      -46.0      -47.7
Errors/omissions, short-term capital  9.4      -43.6       --         --         --
Overall balance                      55.7      -24.3       10.9       16.4        6.4
Financing                           -55.7       24.3      -10.9      -16.
Increase in gross reserves        -32.1       4.4      -56.3      -30.0      -20.0
IMF                                13.8      47.3       45.5       13.5      -12.9
FSU Correspondent accounts        -0.2        --         --         --         --
Change in other liabilities of NBK  -17.7     --         -
Accumulation of arrears            11.7     -15.1        --         --         --
FSU debt conversion (arrears to
stocks)                         --         38.7       --         --         --
Inter-FSU enterprises arrears/credit   -31.2  -51.0      --         --         --
Financing gap                      --         --         --         --   (   36.5
Memorandum items
External debt outstanding           417        542        740        918       1085
Debt/GDP (in percent)                41         33         37         40         43
Debt service ratio (in percent)       4.9       22.0       16.9       18.3       18.4
Gross reserves
(months of imports covered)        2.6        2.3        3.0        3.4        3.6
Current account after official grants (in
percent of GDP)                  -11.2       -7.2       -9.3       -7.8       -6.8
Fiscal balance (in percent of GDP)   -8.0      -11.3       -5.5       -3.7       -2.7
Nongovermment balance
(in percent of GDP)               -3.2        4.1        -3.8      -4.1       -4.1
Sources: Kyrgyz authorities; and IMF staff projections.



-48 -                                        Anex A
Page 7 of 7
Table A-4. KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: External Financing Requirements, 1994-98
(In millions of U.S. dollars)
1994         1995         1996         1997          1998
Actual        Est.        Proj.        Proj.          Proj.
Current account balance, excluding official transfers   -190.6  -219.1   -280.8       -260.6         -251.0
Trade balance                                   -119.0       -154.1      -218.2       -220.8          -213.4
Exports                                      339.9        391.4       418.9         446.0          484.7
FSU                                       222.8        234.2       246.5         263.0          285.2
Non-FSU                                   117.1        157.2       172.4         182.9          199.5
Imports                                     458.9        -545.5      -637.1        -666.8         -698.2
FSU                                      -264.0       -327.9      -347.1        -363.7         -381.5
Non-FSU                                  -194.9        -217.6     -290.0        -303.1         -316.7
Net noninterest services                         -7.2         -19.5      -16.1          -1.9           -1.3
Net interest                                    -17.4         -21.6      -21.3          -24.9          -28.8
Net private transfers 1/                        -46.0         -20.7      -23.2          -11.0          -5.5
Amortization                                      -0.6        -66.7      -44.1          46.0           -47.7
Repurchases                                       -            -           -4.1        -10.8           -12.9
Change in gross reserves 2/                      -45.2        -20.1       -56.3         -30.0          -30.0
Errors, omissions, and short-term capital         9.4         -43.6        -             --
Accumulation of arrears 3/                       -19.5        -66.1        -             -
Debt conversion                                   --           38.7        --            -
Total financing requirements                    246.5        376.8       385.3         347.4           341.6
Foreign direct investment                        44.9         88.2        40.0          42.0           44.1
Disbursements from existing commitments         246.5        376.8       300.3          184.9          135.6
Grants                                           76.5         103.2       59.8           --
Loans                                            125.1        185.4      240.5          184.9          135.6
FSU                                           10.5         --           -             -              -
Non-FSU                                      114.6        185.4       240.5         184.9          135.6
Bilateral creditors                        65.0         40.8        47.1          33.4           20.6
Multilateral creditors                     49.6        144.6       193.4         151.5          115.0
Of which: IMF                           13.8         47.3        49.6          24.3            -
World Bank                    35.8         59.3        64.4          40.9           38.6
Other                          -           38.0        79.4          86.3           76.4
Disbursements from expected new commitments 4/    -            --         45.0          120.5          161.8
Grants                                            --           --         45.0          70.0           70.0
Loans                                             --           --          -            50.5           91.8
FSU                                                                                   -              -
Non-FSU                                        -            --         --            50.5           91.8
Bilateral creditors 5/                      -            --         --            --             39.0
Multilateral creditors                      -            --         --            50.5           52.8
Of which: IMF                            -            --         --             -              --
World Bank 6/                  -            --         10.0          50.5           43.5
Other                          -            --         --             -              9.3
Source: Policy Framework Paper, 1995-98, Sec. M95-1235, Dec. 5, 1995.
1/ Includes migrants' transfers.
2/ Excluding monetization of gold; including commercial banks.
3/ Includes inter-enterprise arrears
4/ Includes commitments pledged during the May 1995 Consultative Group Meeting
5/ Additional financing required to close financing gap, assumed to be covered by bilateral donor support on concessional terms.
6/ Includes FINSAC ($45 M) and Inter-Governmental Fiscal Relations (FY97 - $30 M)



- 49 -                                              Annex B
Page 1 of 6
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
ANNEX B: FINANCIAL SECTOR INDICATORS
Table B-i. Monetarv Survey
1993                               1994                            1995
Som (millions)                 June     Sept    Dec            Mar    June    Sept    Dec              Mar    June
1. National Bank
Net foreign assets               436      -528    -704           -665    -772    -547    -292           -505    -433
Medium-term NBK                    -7      -23     -77           -188    -223    -262    -266           -287    -290
obligations
Net domestic assets              717      1019    1302           1519    1741    1784    1627           1978    2176
Credit to govt. (net)         395      481      522           725     626      702     871           1250    1387
Credit to other govt. (net)     0        0       -1             -2      -4      -4       -3            -1       0
Counterpart funds               0       -34     -27            -21     -15     -41    -251           -265     -62
Credit to banks               526      813    1082           1281    1342    1265    1262            1271    1218
Other items (net)            -204      -241    -275          -464    -206    -138    -252            -277    -343
Liabilities                      273       468     522            668     796     975    1068           1185    1453
Currency in circulation       181      294     405            519     702      862    1022           1036    1313
Reserves                       93      174      117           104      92      109      46            149     140
2. Banking System
Net foreign assets              -354      -422    -580           -524    -560    -417    -181           -303    -298
Medium-term NBK obligations       -7       -23     -77           -188    -223    -262    -268           -287    -290
Net domestic assets              863      1147    1359           1552    1861    1971    1976           2289    2578
Credit to govt. (net)         350      555     559            711     671      747     940           1322    1437
Credit to other govt. (net)   -25       -31     -33           -31      -39     -33      -49           -58     -76
Counterpart funds               0       -34     -27           -21      -15     -41    -251           -265     -62
Credit to the economy         867     1042    1509           1866    2335    2585    1901            2084    2205
Other items (net)            -328      -385    -650          -974   -1091   -1287    -566            -795    -925
Liabilities                      502       702     702            840    1079    1293    1529           1699    1990
Currency outside banks        157      287     398            496     692      850    1002           1015    1292
Deposits                      345      415     304            344     387      443     527            684     698
Demand deposits            232      214     144            173     168     200      390           480      484
Foreign currency            47      131      72             70      77      76       96            151     148
deposits
Time, term and other        66       70      88            101     142      167      41            53       66
deposits
Memo items:
Household deposits                42        47      58             65     107     127      158           n.a.    202
Total deposits as % of GDP        9.5      6.4     3.1            3.4     3.7       4      4.4            5.1      5
Currenty as % of GDP              4.4      4.4     4.1            4.9     6.7      7.7     9.1            7.5     9.3
Real currency                    100        88      64             58      70      82       87            76      93
Real MO                          100        92      55            46       52      61       80            57      68
GDP at end quarter              3622      6458    9688          10080   10358   10982   11640          13528   13951



- 50 -                                             Annex B
Page 2 of 6
Table B-2. Credit Auction and T-Bill Rates
NBK Credit Auction      Treasury Bill       Real Credit Rate         Real Treasury Bill rate
% per annum                                    rates              Compound                    Compound
% annun Sirnpke  Compound  Compound       Realized      Ex ante      Realized     E:x ante*
interest     interest       interest
Feb            90.2        125.6                         -77            -94
Mar
Apr
May           110.5         165.3          91.7          -63            -72          -73          -80
1993    June           105.5        155.1          98.8           -78            -66          -83          -74
July                                      100.1                                      -91          -71
Aug           140.5        233.4          105.3          -85            -53          -90           -71
Sept          190.1        373.7          202.7          -62            -60          -76           -74
Oct           276.8        719.6          373.2           28            -62          -26           -78
Nov                                       373.3                                      -13          -78
Dec                                       272.4                                       -7           -70
Jan
Feb                                       358.3                                      148           -15
Mar                                       426.8                                      230           31
Apr           158.0        278.7          396.7          158            26           238           65
May           128.8        205.4          303.4          123            65           194          118
1994    June                                      287.5                                      222           143
July          144.5        243.4          274.3          162            134          186          155
Aug           178.6        337.8          241.4          215           219           146          149
Sept          130.5        209.4          248.6           95            157          120          190
Oct           111.6        167.6          159.7           56            104          51            98
Nov            77.7        103.4          105.6            3            46            4            48
Dec            89.5        124.3           73.1           23            41            -5            9
Jan            87.0        119.7           72.1           54            28           20             0
Feb            81.9        110.6           68.3           80             7           44           -15
Mar            90.3        125.7           50.7          100            24           33           -17
Apr            74.4         97.8           37.4           78             38          23            -4
May            68.1         87.6           34.7           78            60           28            15
1995    June           67.6          86.7          29.2            75            65           21            14
July           55.6         68.3           29.1           51            51            16           16
Aug            36.3         41.5           28.9           23            34            12           22
(first
week)
Source: IMF; Mission Calculations.
Note: Ex ante rates based on prior 3-months inflation.



- 51 -                                  Annex B
Page 3 of 6
Table B-3. Bank Interest Rates and Internediation Margins
(5/30/95)
Simple Interest                     Lowest   Highest    Mean   Median         No.
of banks
Treasury Bill rate (3 months)                              29.4                3
Refinance credit rate                                      67.6
Lending rates:
Interbank                           70       120        98.0     90.0       5
Industry                            63       160       102.8    100.0       7
Commerce                            80       200       123.9    125.0      11
Deposit rates:
Household 3 months                  40        80        52.3     50.0       8
Enterprise 3 months                 40        66        53.7     50.0       7
US dollar (3 mo hh)                  5        35        15.1     14.3       6
Intermediation spread:
Industry lending (average)                             49.1      50.0
Industry lending (by bank)           3       115        50.8     42.5       4
Commerce lending (by bank)          40       115        73.8     70.0       5
Source: Bankovskiy Vestnik 6/95; Mission Calculations.



- 52 -                                            Annex B
Page 4 of 6
Table B-4. The Financial Status of the "Big Four" Banks
as of 3/31/95
(Som million)       Gross      Thereof:       Non-    Required    Client    NBK          Capital
Loans        Non-       Perform.    Loan      Deposits   Credit       (after
(Principal   Performing    as % of     Loss                          adjustment
/a     (Doubtful or    Gross     Reserve                        for Required
Loss) /b    Loans /b      Lb                            Loan Loss
I  I                                       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Reserve)
Elbank                     140           137       98%         134         92        --          -145
AKB                       222            115       52%         120        159       94            -94
Promstroi                   97            64       66%          50        122       63            -23
Agroprom                 1,054 1       1,030 T     98%       1,009        140      980           -953
|  Total Big Four   l    1,513 |        1,336 |    91%  |    1,313         513    1,137         -1,215
| PercentofGDP            113            9.8%                  9 7%       3.8%     138.4%  |   _-9.0%|
Comparison:        1      356           n. a.      n. a.       149        209      132            -75
B anksJ             _ _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _   _  _
/a     Interest receivable, to the extent shown in the balance sheet, is counterbooked with an equivalent entry
among liabilities. These amounts shown seem to amount to 1/3-1/3 as much as principal; further interest
receivable has not yet fallen due or has been kept of the books.
/b      Approximate estimates based on the classification, according to NBK methodology, of a large part of the
gross loans by 3/95, or of all gross loans by 6/95 (or, in case of AKB by 1/95, for want of recent data).



- 53 -                                           Annex B
Page 5 of 6
Table B-5. The Financial Status of the "Big Four" Banks
(as of 10/31/95)
(Som million)      Gross      Thereof:      Non-      Required    Client    NBK         Capital
Loans       Non-       Perform.    Loan       Deposits   Credit     (after
(Principal)  Performing    as % of    Loss                          adjustment
/a          /b         Gross     Reserve                            for
Loans /b      /b                           Required
Loan Loss
Reserve) /c
Elbank                    179          173        97%        112         98                    -109
AKB                       216          195        90%         139       183        --          -73
Promstroi                 101           72        71%         49        159       59            -25
Agroprom                1,036        1,013        98%       1,013        70      965           -971
Total Big Four          1,532        1,453        95%       1,313       510    1,024 [       -1,178
Percent of GDP   11                                                _         _         [_11_11
Comparison:       l       367          n.a         n.a       131        317      1061       -44 est.
All Smaller 
Banks          [________                                                       
/a     Interest receivable, to the extent shown in the balance sheet, is counterbooked with an equivalent entry
among liabilities. These amounts shown seem to amount to 1/3-1/3 as much as principal; further interest
receivable has not yet fallen due or has been kept of the books.
lb     Approximate estimates based on the classification, according to NBK methodology, of a large part of the
gross loans at 10/95.
Lc      Excluding 1995 losses.



-54.-                                                                 Annex B
Page 6 of 6
Table B-6. Profile of the New Banks
(as of 3/31/1995; Som million)
Assets         Loans          LLR           Loans          Cust.        Due to        Capital           Owners                Owners
Gross        Requ'd.        Adj'd.         Depos.         NBK          Adj'd.       upon Founding             by 3/95
by  NdBK         /a                                      (bDadsej'd
/a           /a                                       on c)
______            __      _         (a)            (b)        (c=a-b)                                               l
Maksat                  94              39             9            30              48            5            18     State Enter-          Foreign (maj.)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __________   _____ ___   __________       _________       p rises_                _ _  _ _  _  _ _
Dyikan                 na.              76            50            26               8          12           -48      State ?               Public /
Private
Vneshecon              na.              56            32            24              16          31           -16      State ? (USSR)   |    (maj.)
l_______   _________                                                    I                                                | (under ERRA)
Orient                  58              24              1           23              27            0            19     Private               Foreign (maj.)
Auto                    29              22             9            13              17            4             1    State                  Public &
l_______ l________                          ________                      _______  ________             (MoTransp.)        Private Firms
Kurulush                31              18             2            16              16            1             4     na.                   Foreign (min.)
Akniyet                na.              26            10            16               6          16            -12     State                 Public &
l_______ l________            ________      ________                      _______     ________        (M oTrade)           Private   Firms
Issykul                 62              17             2            15              14           0              9     Private               Private (maj)
Kramds                  28              18             1            17               8            3            1 1    Foreign               Foreign
l  _ _ _ _ _ _  l   _ _ _ _ _    |__  _  _ _                 _ _ _ _ _ _                    _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _                            (m in.?)
Hen Fen                 34             20              5            15              16           0              6     Foreign               Foreign (fully)
Adil                   na.             24             21             3              13          59           -69      State                 Foreign (maj.)
Energo         l       na.               6             3             3               8           0             -8     State Enter-          State Firms
l __________    l  _______      l_________      |________    _________                                 _________          prises             (m aj.)
Mercury                 16               6             3             3              10           0              4     Private               Private (maj.)
Kyrgjer                 15               4             1             3               2            1             6     Foreign (?)           Foreign ?
l ___________   l  ________     l__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  l__ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __________   ________   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _______________  (m aj)
TOTAL               >500              356 J          149          207             209          132           -75
%  Sector             n.a.           19%           10%           51%             30%          10%           n.a.
% GDP             >3.7%             2.6%  |   1.1%              1.5%            1.5%  |  1.0%              0.5%
/a         Based on the loss loan provisioning required by NBK. The loan classification is based on the loan
repayment record. The extent to which interest receivable, loan collateral quality, reserve requirements for
contingent liabilities, and interbank loans and their quality are taken into account remains to be clarified.



- 55 -                                 Annex C
Page 1 of 4
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Finandal Sector A4justment Credit
ANNEm C
Table C-1: Estimated First Year Costs
If Banks Other Than Elbank Were to be Restructured by Government Bonds
(Som millions)
NBK             ~~~~Interest   Svrne Central
Deposit         K     Governent   Burden   Seeane    Budget
Bank Name       Payout/a   Assistance     Bod         fBns PaymentsReors
/c        -/       (lst year)
Agrombank            60                      965 /e       15          2          77
Elbank              122 /b       50                                              122
Promstroi Bank                                15           4                     7 /f
AKB Kyrgyzstan                                160         40                    72/f
[Total                182          50         1,574         59         2          278
/a    The cost of the deposit payout will be net of liquid assets.
/b    The approved deposit payout plan for Elbank includes 105 million soms of principal and 17
million soms of accrued interest.
/c    In the case of Agroprombank, interest payable in the first year of the program is calculated at
a simple interest rate of 5%; the interest burden is reduced by the remittance to the budget of
70% of NBK's profit. For the other banks the interest rate is calculated at 25%.
/d     Estimated at 750 soms per month for two months for each staff member.
/e    Amount placed with NBK to remove bad debt due from Agroprombank.
/f    The resources required in the first year for both Promstroi and AKB include both interest and
the cost of amortizing the bond.



- 56 -                                  Annex C
Page 2 of 4
Table C-2: Estimated First Year Costs if Three Banks Were To Be Liguidated
(Som millions)
NBK      Governme   Interest    Severance   Central
Bank Name        De         Assistance     nt         B o    Payments   Budget
Payout/a                Bonds      of Bonds       /d      Resources
Ic                 (1st year)
Agrombank              60                    965 /e       15          2          77
Elbank               122 /_       50                                  2          124
AKB Kyrgyzstan        138                                                        138
i= - --.
Total                 320         50          965         15                 133
/a    The cost of the deposit payout will be net of liquid assets.
/b    The approved deposit payout plan for Elbank includes 105 million soms of principal and 17
million soms of accrued interest.
/c     Amount of interest payable in the first year of the program at a simple interest rate of 5% for
Agroprombank will amount to 48 million soms; since NBK remits to the budget 70% of its
profits, 34 million soms will be remitted for a net interest burden on the budget of 15 million
soms.
/d     Estimated at 750 soms per month for two months for each staff member.
/_     Amount placed with NBK to remove bad debt due from Agroprombank.



- 57 -                                  Annex C
Page 3 of 4
Financial Costs of Bank Liquidation and Restructuring
Explanatory Notes to Table C-1
Bank Liquidation. The Government's potential obligation for the protection of Agroprombank
depositors is estimated at 60 million Soms, as of March 1, 1996. This amount assumes that current liquid
assets of 30 million Soms will first be used to pay off an equivalent amount of liabilities and that
depositors will be protected for the full amount of their deposits. Severance payments to staff will add
an additional 2 million Soms, such that the total cost of resolving this failure will approximate 62 million
Soms. In addition, NBK is due 965 million Soms from Agroprombank. This amount represents a bad debt
on the books of the NBK. To make the balance sheet of the NBK whole again, this amount would be
replaced, by a long-term Government bond of 965 million Soms at a nominal interest rate to be
determined. A 5% interest rate would result in an annual cost to the budget of 48 million Soms.
However, since the NBK is required to remit 70% of its profits back to the budget, the net cost to the
budget will be on the order of about 15 million Soms annually. As collections are made from liquidated
assets received from Agroprombank, the monies will go to the budget to retire these bonds and reduce
the Government's interest payments to NBK.
The Government's obligation, as owner of the Elbank is the payout of principal and interest to
depositors. In this regard, a deposit payoff plan will be formulated and implemented, beginning in
February 1996. Under this deposit payoff plan, principal obligations are 105.1 million Soms and interest
obligations 16.9 million Soms totalling 122 million Soms.NBK has provided 50 million Soms from own
reserves to bridge this deposit payoff scheme until the counterparts from FINSAC will be available to the
budget. If necessary, this support will continue until the first tranche of FINSAC is disbursed and NBK
is reimbursed. There could also be recoveries from the assets of the Elbank that would be used to meet
this deposit payoff plan, pay other obligations of Elbank to commercial and Government social
institutions and staff layoff costs. These recoveries are estimated to cover all the other liabilities and
expenses of the liquidation of the bank. Thus, the final cost to resolve Elbank's insolvency is estimated
at 122 million Soms comprising of the household deposit payoff plan.
Bank Restructuring. The Promstroi Bank will be recapitalized by its own shareholders and the
retention of earnings. If successful, there will be no cost to the Government. This alternative appears
attainable and is the preferred option. At present, the Promstroi Bank requires 15 million Soms to bring
its capital to a positive level, and 24 million Soms to reach 8% capital adequacy requirements. Provided
that the problems with its directed credits to Naryn Hydro and Kyrgyz Gas are resolved, the bank will
be able to recapitalize itself by its shareholders. However, should this approach prove unsuccessful, the
Government is faced with two choices: (i) to restructure the bank by issuing bonds to remove bad assets,
thus making the bank more attractive for new investors to acquire the bank and provide new capital; or
(ii) to liquidate the bank. Of the latter two alternatives, the first choice, i.e., restructuring the bank by
issuing bonds to remove bad assets, is the least costly alternative. The potential obligation of the
Government to restructure the bank and protect depositors would be the interest burden on Govermment
bonds and the cost of retiring the bonds issued. If the Government decides to eliminate the negative
capital of 15 million Soms by issuing bonds, then the cost to the Government would be the cost of
retiring the bonds plus the interest costs. If a 5-year bond is issued, bearing interest rate at 25 %, the cost
of the interest and of retiring the bonds for the first year of the program would be 7 million Soms, with
a total cost over 5 years of 26 million Somns ( See Annex C, Table 1).



- 58 -                                 Annex C
Page 4 of 4
If AKB is successful in seizing and selling collateral and raising new capital from shareholders
and retained earnings, there will be no cost to the Government. If the Bank is unsuccessful in raising
capital, the Government will again have two choices: (i) to restructure the bank through a bond issue used
to remove bad assets and to recapitalize the bank by new private investors; or (ii) to liquidate the bank.
Under the first approach, the cost to the government would be the principal of the bonds of 160 million
Soms (the negative capital as at June 30, 1995 reported by the diagnostic audit) plus interest. Assuming
that these bonds carry 25 % per year interest and are retired in equal installments over the five years, their
cost in the first year would be 72 million Soms with a total cost to the Govermnent of 272 million Soms
over five years. Instead of the bond issue, if the bank is liquidated, the Government will have to decide
whether or not the depositors and the NBK will be protected in full principal amounts payable by the
bank instead of waiting for the liquidation proceeds from the bank to be used to pay off these liabilities.
The cost to pay off the depositors and NBK immnediately and in full principal is estimated to be 138
million Soms (160 million Soms of deposits plus 23 million Soms due to NBK minus 45 million Soms
of cash and liquid assets of the bank as of March 1, 1996). The rest of the recoveries from the
liquidation of AKB Kyrghzstan Bank would be used to pay the rest of the liabilities of the bank.
(See Annex C, Tables 1 and 2).
April 12, 1996
Bishkek



- 59 -                                  Annex D
Page I of 9
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
ANNEX D: DEBT RESoLurioN AGENCY (DEBRA):
KEY OPERATING PRINCIPLES
Introduction
1.    Under the Financial Sector Reform Program to be supported by FINSAC, the Goverment will
establish the Debt Resolution Agency (DEBRA), to act in the capacity as receiver on behalf of the
National Bank of Kyrgyzstan (NBK) to take control over and dispose of the assets and liabilities of some
of the former Kyrgyz state-controlled commercial banks. The banks so identified will have been deemed
insolvent by the NBK and their assets, primarily non-performing loans (classified as doubtful or loss by
the NBK), will be subject to resolution and ultimate disposition, while their liabilities, primarily deposits,
will be subject to scheduled payout programs.
2.    DEBRA's primary tasks, as agent of the NBK, will be: a) to act as receiver to take possession
of the assets and liabilities of the intervened banks, and to dispose of them in accordance with insolvency
legislation; and b) to take title of and control over the non-performing loan portfolios and other assets
deemed appropriate of these banks, by transferring these portfolios and assets to DEBRA's Debt Recovery
Unit (DRU).
3.    It is envisioned that the scope of DEBRA's activities initially will encompass the ultimate
intervention and rationalization by the NBK of at least two of the four largest formerly state owned or
controlled commercial banks in the Kyrgyz Republic. The list could be expanded to include any other
Kyrgyz banks or specific loan assets of other banks, so identified by NBK during the finite life of
DEBRA. The DEBRA mandate is to be for a maximum period of three years from May 1996, in
accordance with a presidential decree.
Working Assumptions
4.    As referenced above, DEBRA's operations will comprise two areas: a) the receivership function
where DEBRA, through its Bank Restructuring Unit (BRU), will act as agent for the NBK (which has
the legal authority to intervene in a bank as a receiver) in assisting its intervention, receivership,
conservatorship, deposit payout, and liquidation activities; and b) the debt recovery function where
DEBRA, through its Debt Recovery Unit (DRU) will manage, collect, restructure, liquidate, and resolve
the non-performing loan portfolios and other assets assigned of the intervened banks.
5.    DEBRA's BRU may be comprised primarily of the current NBK liquidation personnel, either
through transfer or temporary assignment, as determined by the NBK. Additional staff, if needed, would
be recruited from outside banking and financial sources at the commencement of DEBRA's operations.
Two foreign advisors, experienced in debt recovery methodologies, receivership procedures, and bank
liquidations, will be recruited under the FINSAC TA Program to assist the NBK staff.



- 60 -                                  Annex D
Page 2 of 9
6.    DEBRA's DRU may be comprised of available, qualified NBK and Ministry of Finance (MOF)
staff. Additional staff, as needed, would be recruited from outside banking and financial sources at the
commencement of DEBRA's operations. Two foreign advisors, experienced in debt work outs and debt
recovery, will be recruited under the FINSAC TA Program to assist the DRU staff.
7.    DEBRA will have authority to contract for personnel resources and office quarters as needed to
perform orderly liquidation and asset recovery operations. This would include contracting with former
bank employees and leasing former bank quarters from the Receiver as needed.
Organizational Responsibilities
8.    Operationally, DEBRA will be headed by a Director who will report to the Chairman of NBK.
The Director will manage the day-to-day activities through two deputy directors. The first Deputy will
represent DEBRA in the absence of the Director.
9.    Decision(s) as to which banks will be liquidated will rest solely with the NBK. Assets to be
transferred to DEBRA will be determined by joint efforts of NBK and the MOF, and approved by the
FINSAC Review Committee, in accordance with established policies and procedures.
10.   The FINSAC Review Committee, to be established by a Presidential Decree, will have the
responsibility of overseeing the implementation of key Government decisions under the FINSAC Reform
Program. It will be chaired by the Prime Minister or his designee. The membership of the Committee
will be comprised of the Chairman of NBK, Minister of Finance, Minister of Economy, Minister of
Agriculture, Minister of Justice, Chairman of State Property Fund, and Director of DEBRA.
11.   It is vitally important to the effective operation of DEBRA that the BRU and the DRU work
together in a totally integrated manner at least until the loan records are sufficiently organized and
administrative arrangements are in place to allow active negotiations with borrowers to commence. An
extended period of no less than 6 months of integrated operations is essential in order to prepare the way
for an effective debt recovery program. After this period if the BRU and DRU wish to proceed with
somewhat more autonomy, prior approval of the FINSAC Review Committee will be required. The
FINSAC Review Committee should first satisfy itself that the following tasks have been completed:
Identify and locate loans and assets to be transferred to the DRU;
Locate and take control of appropriate loan files (including credit, collateral, legal etc.);
Identify other needed records such as accounting, payment, etc.;
Determine office facilities to be maintained to accommodate borrowers in certain regional locations;
Interview bank management and loan personnel who have knowledge of the loans, assets and
associated borrowers;
Contract or make other firm arrangements as appropriate with specific bank personnel to be retained
as contractors/employees of DEBRA due to their knowledge of loans/borrowers or collection
expertise;
Identify and locate collateral; and
Identify specialized equipment held by the bank that may be needed in the loan/asset disposition
process.
12.   The Committee should also satisfy itself that, if necessary, an appropriate coordinating mechanism
is in place to ensure the continued operation of the debt recovery program in the most effective and cost
efficient manner.



- 61 -                                    Annex D
Page 3 of 9
13.    DEBRA will cooperate in any required audit of its operations and submit periodic reports required
by NBK's Board and the Government in accordance with existing laws and regulations covering such
activity.
Operations
14.    Bank Restructuring Unit. (BRU). The BRU, through its appointment as agent for the NBK,
will act in the capacity of Receiver for all of the assets and liabilities of the intervened banks, in
conformance with Kyrgyz insolvency legislation and regulations. It will coordinate its activities with the
Bank Supervision Department of the NBK to:
Prepare orderly liquidation procedures, in accordance with established NBK guidelines, including
deposit payouts, conversion of liquid assets to cash, disposal of fixed assets, etc.;
Effect the transfer of non-perforrming loans and other selected assets to the DRU;
Initiate such legal actions as are appropriate in its role as Receiver;
Conduct such other receivership activities as called for in established liquidation policies and
procedures.
15.    The Receiver, as agent of the National Bank, will replace the former management of the
intervened bank, have sole responsibility for the continued operations of the intervened bank, and oversee
the orderly liquidation of that bank until final resolution.
16.    Debt Recovery Unit (DRU). The DRU will act as the vehicle through which all recoveries are
made by the Government, and various other classes of creditors, by collection, restructuring, and
resolution of outstanding balances of the intervened banks' non-performing loan portfolios and other assets
assigned.
17.    The primary debt collection philosophy of DRU will be to seek to the most expeditious and cost
effective methods practicable and utilize pre-determined criteria for debt resolution wherever possible.
Initially DRU will need to establish work-out teams for different types of credits and develop an analysis
base from which credits can be placed into selected categories for resolution. To the maximum extend
possible, loans will be classified and placed into categories which will allow the application of pre-
determined "automatic" methodologies for restructure, and resolution under a variety of programs.
18.    The "automatic" criteria to be applied to the loans assigned to DRU will include such concepts
as the ability to negotiate with the borrower in a flexible mnanner including the extension of repayment
terms, the possible forgiveness of accrued interest, and/or a partial or total forgiveness of loan balance
principal, an acceptance of collateral as total repayment of debt, and/or a combination of debt for equity
swaps. DRU management will be innovative and flexible in its application of "automatic" criteria.
19.    The analysis and review techniques of the DRU would include, as applicable:
A familiarization with the borrower and its operations;
A review and assessment of the borrower's financial statements, tax returns and any other available
relevant data;
An evaluation of collateral, and personal and/or third party guarantees;



- 62 -                                    Annex D
Page 4 of 9
Any cash flow projections available to assess realistic repayment prospects of some or all debt
(principal and interest).
20.   In keeping with the primary principle of following the most cost effective policies for debt
recovery, certain debt collection and disposition principles would be established:
Certain loan debt may be forgiven as appropriate and in accordance with outstanding Government
decrees or in the best interest of the economy, such as small farmer agricultural loans;
Certain loan debtors may be given discount for timely payment, such as privatized enterprises that can
make short term periodic payments (such as a 25 % discount for total payoff within a set time period,
or a 5% to 10% discount for each payment made on a timely basis over a set number of loan payment
periods that will totally liquidate the debt);
Debt for equity swaps could be considered for debtors deemed to be viable for long term growth but
who do not have the ability to pay high interest loans on a current periodic basis and could be
profitable if relieved from heavy bank debt burden;
Certain loan debtors could be required to pay full debt, such as newly privatized firms that assumed
the bank debt as part of the auction/bidding investment process. To relieve this debt could be viewed
as showing preferential treatment as other investors may have paid more for the enterprise if they
knew debt relief would be forthcoming;
Negotiation with Government entities, for payment of guaranteed or directed debt;
Swap of collateralfor debt, for those enterprises that have marketable collateral that can be sold easily
(for example, a firm in a traditional agricultural region that has computers which can't be sold easily
in that region, but which the DRU could easily sell in an urban area such as Bishkek);
Restructure of debt. This would include the following options:
a) Rescheduling of debt, i.e. extension of loan maturities, balloon payments, interest rate relief, etc.;
b) Requesting additional collateral, guarantees, setting up of accounts receivable, financing, etc.;
c) Negotiating payments and compromise of principal and/or interest through performance discounts,
partial debt forgiveness, etc.
These recovery options could be considered for enterprises which are having trouble meeting current
debt payment requirements but which could perform some other commitment which may not generate
full debt recovery: Restructured recovery of non-performing debts would benefit the economy and
yield more than could can be expected through recovery in a bankruptcy action. This type of action
may be appropriate for large agricultural farming enterprises that can only pay when crops are
harvested and sold; foreclosure of the property would most likely yield less as there is no market for
the vast amount of land and equipment that would have to be sold in an already saturated market.
Bankruptcy of the debtor. Although this should usually be a last alternative, it is certainly appropriate
in those cases where a debtor refuses to work with the DRU to settle the debt in any other way.
Also, this may be appropriate when this is the only way to obtain control of marketable collateral



- 63 -                                   Annex D
Page 5 of 9
(such as commodities like food products or seasonal harvest product, and easily moved items such as
automobiles, office equipment and farm equipment) in a timely manner.
21.   It should be noted that a combination of two or more of the above alternatives may be used in a
given situation, (such as some partial debt relief, some collateral swap, and a restructure of remaining
debt).
22.    After a loan has been identified and classified by the DRU staff, a recommended course of action
will be developed for presentation to DEBRA management in accordance with established delegations of
authority for consideration and final disposition.
23.    Even in the instances of those state-enterprise loans and other directed credits where no recovery
potential exists, a recommendation will be made and approved in accordance with established delegations
of authority to write off uncollectable principal and interest.
24.   It will be a condition of second tranche release of the FINSAC credit that DEBRA management
will submit, for approval by the NBK, FINSAC Review Committee, and IDA a comprehensive report of
its findings, initial loan classifications, and recommendations for the recovery of loans under either a case-
by-case or "automatic criteria" approach. It has been agreed with NBK management that in fact, this
report will be prepared and submitted as soon as possible after the inauguration of DEBRA. Further
DEBRA will provide periodic reports as to its progress in debt collection and recovery to both the
FINSAC Review Committee and IDA.
Liquidation and Asset Disposition Policies
25.    Appropriate policies for liquidation and disposition of assets will, as established by the NBK,
include the following guidelines and principles:
Those assets which remain in the receivership, i.e. liquid assets such as cash, investments, securities,
etc., and fixed assets such as buildings, equipment, etc., will be disposed of as expeditiously as
possible in accordance with agreed upon timetables and liquidation procedures established in
connection with the Bank Supervision Department of the NBK and the Receiver. The disposition of
the fixed assets may be accomplished through sealed bids, public auctions, packaged asset-sales, or
any such other means as appropriate. However, these assets are not to be retained within the
Receivership beyond a time frame considered to be reasonable and proper. In any event, all
receivership assets are to be liquidated and the proceeds remitted to the proper authorities by the
termination date of DEBRA's mandate.
Those assets in the form of non-performing loans and other assets assigned to the DRU will be dealt
with in the most cost effective method possible, including:
restructuring which places the loan on a performing basis;
a partial forgiveness of either interest and/or loan principal and the restructuring of the
remaining loan balance;
liquidation through collection efforts and/or sale of collateral; or sold through the sealed-bid
process, auctions, or packaged sale mechanism to interested buyers or investors;



- 64 -
Annex D
Page 6 of 9
write-off of all uncollectable principal and interest.
Those loans which are restructured to become performing will be offered for sale either to other
financial institutions or public/private investors under terms to be established by the DEBRA
management, in consultation with the NBK and IDA. In any event, all DRU assets are to be
recovered, sold, or written off and the proceeds remitted to the central Government budget authorities
by the termination date of DEBRA s mandate.
Debt Recovery Principles
26.   Certain categories of loans can be treated in various ways to effect debt recovery or resolution.
Due to likely personnel and time constraints, debt recovery programs involving standardization and
"automatic criteria" which streamline debt recovery actions will be used to the extent possible. It is
recognized by NBK management that dealing with hundreds of loans and borrowers on a case-by-case
basis may well prove to be a monumental and counterproductive effort, with positive results unattainable
within the expected life span of the proposed Debt Resolution Agency (DEBRA).
27.   In any instance where the loan is not performing according to terms, the NBK/DEBRA will need
to issue instructions telling debtors they will not be allowed to borrow from other banks until some
acceptable debt resolution is worked out on the current outstanding bank debt. Debt recovery principles
will include a combination of the following actions:
Full Payment. This should be the primary objective in all borrower negotiation efforts. However,
for various reasons, it will not be practical in most cases because of the actual collectability of the
credit and the current economic situation. Therefore other alternatives, such as those described
below, will need to be considered.
Debt Forgiveness. In accordance with outstanding or future Government decrees, the Government
may decide to forgive some or all of certain portions of debt. Such debt as excessive accumulated
interest may be forgiven to give incentive for payment of principal. There may also be certain types
of loans, such as peasant farm and small agricultural business loans, and those that are directly
attributable to previous Government policies of price intervention for social protection, such as bread
subsidy, that may be forgiven totally in the best interest of the economy.
Discounts. In order to give borrowers an immediate incentive to pay their debt, discounts against
outstanding principal should be considered. These could be in the form of one tirne discounts (such
as a 25-50% discount against principal, for full payment within a certain stated time period, or time
sensitive discounts, where a certain percent (such as 10-20%) discount will be accepted for each
timely payment made in an agreed series of payments. Profitable privatized enterprises should be
likely candidates for this alternative to prevent foreclosure of collateral or possible bankruptcy action.
Debt Collateral Swap. There will be instances where a borrower will be willing to swap collateral
for all or a portion of debt to prevent bankruptcy. Often this collateral is not marketable in the area
of the country where the debtor is located. DEBRA, through its nationwide operations, could
transport the collateral to marketable areas. Also, individual collateral may be of such small quantity
as to not be very marketable. However, DEBRA would be able to consolidate similar types of
collateral from numerous debtors into acceptable marketable sizes.



- 65 -                                   Annex D
Page 7 of 9
Debt/Equity Swap. There will be opportunities to exchange all or part of outstanding debt for an
equity interest in a debtor enterprise. This swap can be negotiated as to price and type of equity
instrument. The easiest swap could be for common stock. However, to alleviate concerns over the
dilution of ownership wherein the Government could own a substantial or majority part of the
enterprise, alternate equity instruments could be exchanged.
This could take the form of preferred non-voting stock, subordinated debt, or some type of instrument
(such as a warrant or stock coupon) that is convertible into common stock as long as the converter
is not a Government entity. Using this approach, DEBRA could take an instrument convertible to
common stock and sell it, possibly on the stock exchange, to private individuals, thus overcoming the
fear of Government ownership of an otherwise privatized enterprise.
Restructuring of Debt. To allow non-performing borrowers return to performing status, it is often
necessary to negotiate a debt restructure. This can take various forms with the most prevalent being
restructure of the terms (maturity date(s), interest rate, payment amounts, timing of payments, etc.)
and setting up some type of enterprise cash flow and payment requirements (where the payments are
based on the cash flow of the business such as receipt of accounts receivable). In all restructure
agreements, it is prudent to attempt to obtain additional collateral, guarantees, etc.
Auction/Sale of Debt. Selling loans individually or in packages of several homogeneous loans may
be a viable disposition alternative. This can be through either public or sealed bid auctions. Large
loans to specialized companies or with distinctive collateral lend themselves to sealed bid auctions
involving known potential buyers that are both interested in the particular kind of debt and have the
ability to purchase. This will likely be competitor firms looking for a way to expand and feel that
the debt can be negotiated for equity. Smaller loans, packaged using similar attributes, (such as type
of enterprise, type of collateral, geographic location of borrower/collateral or loan size) are good
products for sale through either public or sealed bid auction. Loan collateral, especially movable
type, such as cars, equipment, furniture, fixtures, etc., is very conducive to public auction on a cash
and carry basis.
Bankruptcy. DEBRA management will also recognize that bankruptcy proceedings can be a useful tool
and even a positive threat in certain debt recovery cases. In the event a borrower, who has been
determined to have the capacity to perform, refuses to pay or negotiate some form of payment,
bankruptcy could be threatened to force negotiations. Also, bankruptcy could be instituted immediately
to prevent possible loss or destruction of collateral. There will also be instances where analysis shows
the borrower is not viable under any scenario and bankruptcy may be the only viable option.
However, bankruptcy and the confiscation of collateral is an option that will be carefully considered
for its overall cost effectiveness. While the recovery of collateral will not be the driving force for
instituting bankruptcy, DEBRA management will also be take into account that certain types of
collateral may not be easily marketed and could be costly to maintain. These considerations may
indicate that bankruptcy may not be a cost effective business alternative.
28.   Farm vs. Non-Fann Debt. Certain types of debt lend themselves to some debt resolution
alternatives better than others. Full payment, while desired, may be impossible to attain in many
situations and bankruptcy may prove more costly than other alternatives available. In the Kyrgyz case,
the most significant division of debt appears to be farm versus non-farm debt.



- 66 -
Annex D
Page 8 of 9
Farm Debt. In dealing with farm debt, the most relevant debt resolution alternatives involve any or
a combination of debt forgiveness, collateral exchange and/or restructuring of debt.
a) Debt for2iveness may be considered appropriate, especially for small farmers, when the farmer
cannot earn enough to pay the debt and meet operating expenses. Although forgiveness could
arguably create a moral hazard situation, it may also give the farmer the incentive to produce at
capacity and ultimately in a profitable manner. Also, close monitoring of the farmer s operations
could possibly bring about collection of taxes that currently are not being paid as the farmers are
in a loss-making situation.
b) Collateral exchange can be especially useful when small farmers do not have direct access to
distribution markets. For instance, a sugar beet farmer may sell to a combine that produces
sugar. An exchange of debt for a portion of the completed sugar would be a good alternative,
as the debt collector (DEBRA) may have easier access to sell the product through established
distribution markets.
c) Restructuring of debt is one of the most appropriate alternatives. Restructuring should be
performed in such a manner as to match the operations of the farmer. Farm activity is typically
based on a crop or livestock cycle, none of which is in step with three-month loans.
Restructuring should allow the farmer time to plant, harvest and sell the product before significant
payments are due. Extending terms to yearly payments based on a percentage of earnings
received by the farmer should be considered. Restructuring combined with debt forgiveness
and/or collateral exchange will likely bring higher net income to the Government (through loan
and tax payments) than will be realized through full payment demands or bankruptcy.
Non-Farm Debt. In the non-farm debt, although debt forgiveness and collateral exchange may be
applicable in certain situations, the most practical alternatives are discounts, debt/equity swaps, and
restructuring of debt. These methods are also the best methods to be used by Promstroi and AKB
Kyrgyzstan Banks, vis-a-vis the debtor enterprises.
a) Discounts could be a primary alternative when acquiring a large portfolio. To offer a discount
for early payment of debt can help to reduce the number of debtors that must be dealt with and
bring about receipt of cash payments that otherwise may take extended periods of time to receive.
This option must be carefully considered to style it in a manner that does not increase the
possibility for moral hazard. However, it will often be the case that a negotiated payment of full
loan proceeds over an extended period of time will be less than a discounted payoff when
consideration is given to the reinvestment alternatives of current cash. Enterprises with excess
cash or liquidity, maybe some of the newly privatized and capitalized enterprises (such as some
of the meat or tinned goods enterprises from Tamakash Holding or certain bread or bakery
enterprises from Kyrgyz-Dan-Azyk), might be candidates for taking advantage of a discount debt
plan.
b) Debt/equity swap is a viable alternative for stock equity enterprises. Often, enforcement of debt
provisions might force the enterprise into bankruptcy where the recovery against the debt could
be minimal and there could be significant negative impact on a local economic area through loss
of jobs and loss of needed product and/or services. By taking an equity position, through any of
several types of equity instruments, the enterprise is released from large debt payments and may
be in a position to expand and become more profitable. The equity position should give a return
through dividends, capital appreciation or both. It can be argued that the equity position is a



- 67 -                                   Annex D
Page 9 of 9
lesser position than debt, such that if the company is not profitable all equity could be lost.
However, the equity position will allow monitoring of operations, through statements to equity
holders, and positive input into operations that may not be attainable as a debt holder. In any
case, the equity should be easier to sell than the loan. This alternative should also be especially
useful for other banks, such as Promstroi Bank and AKB Kyrgyzstan Bank, that hold large
portfolios of non-performning debt to stock enterprises .
c) Restructuring of debt, similar to farm debt, restructuring of debt is often the most viable
alternative for dealing with enterprises that cannot pay debt under the current structure. This
may certainly be the case for newly privatized companies that inherited debt, such as those
affiliated with Kyrgyz-Dan-Azyk and Tamakash Holding. Restructuring debt to coincide with
operational earnings should be pursued. This will allow the company to pay its debt as it receives
income and still keep some income to cover administrative and operational expenses, and some
income to fund capital growth or fixed capital assets.
29.   In working with a large portion of the Agroprom debt, DEBRA management will cooperate with
the Ministry of Agriculture which has already effected two separate long-term debt recovery programs.
Certain loans to reorganized state and collective farms as well as certain reorganized agricultural
enterprises have been rescheduled for repayment over the long term. DEBRA will take over the
administrative aspects of these loan restructuring and ensure that the remaining loan repayments are
received and accounted for in an efficient manner.



- 68 -                                  Annex E
Page I of 6
THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC)
ANNEX E: RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN BIG FouR BANKS
AGROPROM BANK
1.    The draft report of the specialized audit has been completed and confirms the severity of the
bank's insolvency and the poor state of its financial records. As at June 30, 1995 the bank had negative
capital of just over 1 billion Soms, and the IAS loan provision was 99.8% of the gross portfolio. In
addition to confirming the dire state of the bank and its loan portfolio, the auditors found that it was not
possible to reconcile loan records to the books of account, to obtain complete listings of collateral, to
reconcile interbranch accounts, to obtain a complete list of deposits and current accounts, or to obtain
management's agreement with the result of the review. The bank has virtually ceased operating. A
limited amount of new lending is restricted to a few branches with excess current accounts. Agroprom
has, however, continued to act as payment agent for government accounts; it earns fees from this activity
and interest from loans.
2.     Of the total loan portfolio (930 million Soms), about 40 % is to various farms and farm enterprises
that were previously kolkhozes and sovkhozes. The loans appear to be subject to a Government resolution
issued in August 1994 which provides for the rescheduling of farm enterprises' debts over a 40-year
period. A further resolution, dated February 16, 1995 appears to provide for the debts of the re-
organized enterprises to be assumed under preferential terms by the acquiring enterprises. A further 43 %
of the portfolio is comprised of loans in the names of various holding companies. These loans were made
to numerous individual enterprises which have since been converted to joint stock companies in which
generally the State has a 75 % interest. In the case of reorganized collectives, the government's intentions
with respect to various decrees will influence the approach to debt recovery. Similarly, the extent to
which privatized enterprises have assumed the debts of their predecessors will need to be determined.
3.     Since November, the bank has been working on documenting and recovering collateral. Perhaps
because collateral proceeds are one of the primary sources of funds for paying salaries, branch personnel
are devoting considerable effort to this work. Loan agreements rarely include a precise description of
collateral and branch personnel have been visiting each borrower to make a listing of the specific
collateral available. Most of the realizations have been from the sale of cars and farm equipment, but
branch personnel have also been successful in negotiating to receive a portion of a farmer's output and
in pursuing collateral through the courts. There have been few sales of real estate since, particularly in
cases of loans to enterprises, control over property rests with the State Property Fund and the bank does
not have the ability to take possession. Control over collateral - and collateral proceeds - appears weak,
with little central control or assurance that the value of collateral has been removed from the records
when realized. However, notwithstanding the various obstacles, 9 million soms was realized from
collateral in the second half of 1995. Although the bank's listing indicates a gross value for collateral
of 242 million soms, this reflects the book value of assets according to the borrowers' records, not market
value, and the likely realizable value must be substantially less.
4.     The auditors' analysis of individual depositors indicates about 10,000 accounts totaling 15 million
soms. Because of the small deposit total there appears to be little potential for offsetting deposits against
loans.



-69 -                                 Annex E
Page 2 of 6
5.    An important part of the liquidation planning process is the analysis of Agroprom's 49-branch
network. This will be facilitated by Ernst & Young's review which is to be completed by May, 1996.
Preliminary information indicates that there are approximately 30 branches in rayons not served by other
operating banks. Only three branches are "profitable" according to Agroprom's branch records. Further
analysis will be required to determine those branches most likely to be capable of surviving as free-
standing entities, those most likely to be marketable to other financial institutions, and those that might
be needed to make treasury payments on behalf of Government and to act as collection agents for
DEBRA.
6.    On November 28, 1995 the Board of NBK passed a resolution finding Agroprom insolvent.
Application to the court to appoint NBK as liquidator is expected in April.



-70 -                                  Annex E
Page 3 of 6
Table E-1: Agrogrombank Categories of Borrowers
The major groups of defaulting borrowers can be broadly categorized as follows (soms in millions):
BORROWER                       AMOUNT                       NOTE
Min of Agriculture & Food:        406       Loans to reorganized state & collective farms
Of which:                                   are subject to decree #42 which transferred
Kolkhozes                       163      25-50% to the state budget and deferred the
Sovkhozes                       123      balance over 15 years starting Jan, 1997
Industry                        59       Loans to reorganized agricultural enterprises
Supply organizations            39       are subject to decree #632 which deferred
Other                          22       them over 40 years starting Jan, 2004
Tamakash Holding:                  59       Loans are outstanding to about 130
Of which:                                  individual enterprises at 48 branches. They
Meat enterprises               21       include: Likoro-Vodochny, Plant Tattu,
Dairy produce                   4       Tokmak, JSC May. Most of the enterprises
Tobacco                         15      are now joint stock companies 75% owned
Tinned goods                   11       by the state
Other                           8
AS Kyrgyz-Dan-Azyk                149       Loans are outstanding to small & large bread
& food enterprises (inc 35 million to 1 plant)
which have been privatized
Kyrgyz Potribsojuz                127       Loans are outstanding to various privatized
Of which:                                  enterprises including JSC Kyrgyzbakaleya,
Trade                          84       Shamaly Sayskoe, and Manas RASC
Procurement                    32
Other                         11
PA Kyrgyzmunyzat                   98       2 large loans to oil industry enterprises
(Issyk-Kul Nefteproduct, and Association
Kyrgyzmunyzat) account for 26 mill soms
Peasant farms                      70
Small business enterprises         79
Ministries of Government           23
Other                              9
Variance                          (90)
Total                          930



- 71 -                                  Annex E
Page 4 of 6
PROMSTROI BANK
7.    As at December 31, 1995, the diagnostic audit prepared by DFC indicates that, although
management has been successful in raising much needed capital, structural problems and the undue
concentration of loans to the industrial sector continue to make Promstroi's position precarious.
8.    The IAS financial statements indicate that the bank earned net profit (before loan loss provisions)
of 8.5 million Soms, and achieved an increase in paid up capital of 8 million soms with 5 million of this
increase sourced from employees. Progress has also been made in repayments from the largest borrower,
Kyrgyzgas, which constitutes 42% of the entire portfolio; 30% of the company's revenues have been
assigned to the bank resulting in repayments of 29 million soms. The number of loans under PESAC has
declined from 18 to 5 and the bank has achieved some success in persuading these enterprises to start
repayments.
9.     Loans made at the direction of Government (i.e., those made prior to April 1, 1994) constitute
two thirds of the entire portfolio and account for 85% of all non-performing loans. The dominance of
large loans is such that 9 loans infringe the single borrower limit set by NBK. Attempts to negotiate
resolution of these loans with Government continue to preoccupy management but have not been
successful. After Kyrgyzgas, the second largest directed credit is Naryn Hydro, which was the subject
of a decree transferring its assets and liabilities to Kyrgyz Energy Holding (KEH). However, only the
assets were transferred, leaving Naryn unable to meet its liabilities to the bank. Discussions with Naryn
and the Government have so far failed to resolve the problem.
10.   Promstroi's problems are not all attributable to the directed credits; many are of its own making.
For example, new loans made in 1995 have not been made with the required care; of 11 million Soms
of loans made in the first 9 months of 1995 and still outstanding at year end, slightly more than half are
non-performing. (In total only 20% of the total portfolio is performing.) Moreover, the bank has a
severe mismatch problem as a result of its reliance on settlement accounts for ftnding. These current
accounts are volatile, and fund a portfolio of Treasury bills and the loan portfolio which is essentially
long term by virtue of its non-performing nature. Further, management has allowed expenses to increase:
personnel costs alone have increased more than 50% in the year. Only one branch has been closed.
11.   The bank's capital deficiency continues to be its most urgent problem. The diagnostic audit
indicates a negative capital of 15 million Soms. The only option open to the bank to address this problem
in the short term is the sale and leaseback of its property assets in order to realize a revaluation credit
of 14 millions soms. In the longer term, resolution of the Naryn Hydro loan would also improve capital,
as the assessment of capital under IAS is heavily dependent on the classification of this loan: if it were
to be upgraded from loss to substandard, the bank's capital would be negative 3 million Soms only.
12.   Since January 9, 1996, Promstroi has been operating under a management letter agreement with
NBK which required the bank to stop accepting deposits, desist from lending to non-performing accounts,
write off all losses by March 31, continue working on recovering problem loans, and find ways to
eliminate negative capital by May 15. In the 2 months to March 1, 1996 the bank earned net profit
(before loan losses and taxes) of 2.4 million soms and paid down its loan from the National Bank from
58 million soms to 20 million soms. However, there is no evidence that management has specific plans
to bring about change or to exploit the opportunity presented by the demise of Agroprombank and
Elbank. Plans to raise new capital depend entirely on subscriptions from staff and leave the bank without
significant shareholders able to initiate the necessary management and structural changes.



- 72 -                                  Annex E
Page 5 of 6
13.   In order to encourage the bank to correct its mismatch of assets and liabilities and to capitalize
on the opportunities occasioned by the demise of Agroprom and Elbank, it is recommended that NBK
should lift the restriction on accepting deposits as soon as a positive level of capital is achieved.
AKB KYRGYZSTAN BANK
14.   As of June 30, 1995, the draft diagnostic audit under IAS by Ernst and Young has classified 85 %
of the bank's loans as "loss," six times the bank's paid-in capital. Due to the large volume of doubtful
and loss loans, the bank has been operating with losses since 1994. Taking into account recoveries by
the bank during June-December 1995, the auditors have calculated the negative capital of the bank at 160
million Soms as of December 31, 1995.
15.   The management of the bank is not in full agreement with the draft diagnostic audit. The majority
of the loans classified as loss are claimed to be under government guarantee or "direction." The
management has been appealing to the Prime Ministry for a governmental debt-bond swap for all of the
guaranteed and/or directed loans on its books (140 million Soms as of June 30, 1995, 66% of total loans).
During January 1996, the Ministry of Finance issued bonds of 18.5 million Soms to the bank in exchange
for 8 million Soms of outstanding government guaranteed loans to the light industry enterprises on the
books of the bank. The bank has recognized these bonds as mainly recovery of past interest due - i.e.,
as interest income without any offset to the principal due. Part of these bonds were used (13.5 million
Soms) to repay the bank's liabilities to NBK.
16.   The management of the bank also claim to have collateral against the non-performing loans valued
at 170 million Soms (versus total loans of 205 million Soms). The draft audit report indicates that the
majority of this collateral is not registered with relevant notaries and therefore the bank does not have
legal claim to seize it. Furthermore, the auditors' assessment of the market value of the immovable
collateral claimed by the bank differs significantly from the bank's valuation. Because of the different
opinions on the value of the collateral and on the legal basis for its seizure, the bank management and
the draft audit differ extensively on the classification of the loan portfolio. The bank's loan loss provision
requirement is 50 million less than the audit, creating a significant difference on the calculation of the
negative capital. The bank management also does not agree with the IAS capital definition. The auditors
estimate the insolvency of the bank at 160 million Soms whereas the bank's own estimate is 35 million
Soms.
17.   During June 30, 1995-March 1, 1996, the bank management indicates total recoveries against
loans of 38.5 million Soms (including the Government bond issue). There have also been efforts to
increase capital and one new shareholder has indicated a commitment to pay US Dollars 600,000(6.6
million Soms) by May 1996.
18.   The bank appears to have made positive net interest income during the first two months of 1996.
Adjusting the figures to international accounting standards show that the bank continues to lose around
1 million Soms per month on net interest income. There have been no significant improvements in the
bank's operating performance on a monthly basis since December 1995.
ELBANK
19,   Elbank was declared insolvent and its license withdrawn on February 14, 1996 by NBK. The
application to the court for liquidation of the bank was made in February 1996 and on April 2, 1996 the
court was expected to approve the liquidation proposal of NBK.



- 73 -                                Annex E
Page 6 of 6
20.   NBK's resolution also approved a household-deposit payoff plan to be implemented starting
February 15, 1996. Those deposits below 3000 Soms were to be paid-off from February 15, 1996; below
5000 Soms from April 1, 1996; below 10,000 Soms from May 1, 1996 and above 10,000 Soms when
all of the previous payments were made.
21.   During the first two months of 1996, 30 million Soms were paid to the depositors, funded
through advances from NBK (29 million), as well as liquid assets, loan collections, and recoveries of the
bank. The deposit payoff is expected to continue with NBK funding support. The funding for this deposit
payoff is expected to come from the following sources: 30 million Soms from the Ministry of Finance
due to Elbank from past deposit compensations made on the instructions of the Government; 5-6 million
Soms from loan recoveries and other liquid assets; and 30 million Soms from the Budget.
22.   The liquidation plan of Elbank foresee closure of 102 branches out of 164 by May 1, 1996.
Pension payments now made through the downsized branches are expected to be transferred to other
banks and/or post office by July 1, 1996. The outstanding housing and emergency loans fully funded by
the budget are expected to be transferred to a unit designated by the Government. The deposit payoff will
continue through the downsized branches of the bank where the liquidator appointed by the court will
decide on the timing of the closure of further branches of the bank. All of the branch premises not rented
belong to the State Property Fund. The inventory for the fixed assets of the bank is being prepared to be
transferred to the State Property Fund by the liquidator to be appointed by the court. Elbank branches
will cease to collect utility and budget payments as they close.
23.   All of the commercial loan portfolio of Elbank (61.7 million Soms as of March 1, 1996) has been
transferred to the courts by NBK. The Ministry of Interior is providing support to the court investigation
to identify the borrowers. Some recovery is expected from this portfolio (about 10%) although none of
these loans have collateral and many of the borrowers listed cannot be identified. Elbank also had 16
million Soms outstanding to other banks end-1995. The NBK administratorship has recovered 9 million
Soms of these loans and hopes to recover another 3 million Soms from Akniyet Bank in April 1996. No
recovery is foreseen for the 5 million Soms loaned to the liquidated Adil Bank.
April 12,1996
Bishkek



74                              Annex F
Page 1 of 13
KbIPrbl3                                           nPEMbEP-MHHHCTP
PECnYE1TIHKACblHbIlH                                               KblPrbI3CKO1F
IIPEMbEP-MHHICTPH                                                   PECnlYBaHKH
b[l-LUXEK ox.. eKMTe YRY                                     ,GMu(F!. 1o0M flPA3HTE1bCTRA
LETTER OF FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POUCY ILPSDPI
Mr. JaIms 0. Wotfonaohn
President
lntetntanal Development AsocIation
lei1 H Strt N.W.
Washington, D1:.C 2043
-_I
Der MAr. Woifimsohn:
=
e  t  1.     The Kyrgyz Republic i one of the most rapidly reforming countrles In the fomnr Soviet union
_  (FSU). Since its indepeitince in 19S1, the Governmnt has made significant progs in achieving
greater macrconomic stability and transorming fix economy Into a mfarltw-orisntd one. Over the
*  pest thme y     the economy has followed a path oa s    ned   billzaden. The rt of inflation ha
been brought down from an annual averag of over 1000 percnt In 1992 to heee dun 30 percet at
present In 129A, deposit and crdit Interest ate wom Ubealized. directed credits wor discontnu.d,
and the finacing of the budget deficit by the republican banks wee sharply curiled. As pet of ft
s , bUlztlion program. the KOK tas also established a foreign exchange auctlon mrket, a ifoetig
m  exchane rat, and a fully Ubraalzsd exchange rgime with no reotictin on current or capl
-i wuaccount tlnsactiona. A major UberlIzation of the tade trgime has also occurred. Non-arff berre
0  w-r removed, and export taxc have been  liminad on all goods. In additIon, the Govenment
worked out and Is Implementing a comprehensiv  privatzuton and entepri  secto sdlusbnet
= ! program aimed at pesing productiveawet Into pria  hand. and lIuiW n or eucturing large
Z lose-maldng stte entmrprim which wore a heavy burden on the economy. The_ neforms have been
supported by the Rehabilitation Credit (FY93). res)ourc  dlsbursed by th Inteatonal Development
Asaoclsdan (ODA) to support roforms. aswell as by a successful disbursement of first trnches of dth
, IMF loan.
Y a
c 2.      To enhance and develop the reforms already undertaken, th Govenmen In currently In te
= c proces of implementing a comprehensive reform of the financlal sector. At this  ge of economic
Xtrnsformation, a more stable and effcint flnanchl sector, wth a relable banking system at it core,
will be absolutely sentbal to help susoin nfacroeconomic stability, stimulate savings mobilIzaon,
support enterpris recovwy and expansion, and to enhance th development of te private sector. The
basic objectives of th Financial Sector Refon tlogram being pursued by th Governmnt are: (1) to
Improve leghlative and regulat   principles of h development of a sound. compete snd market.
oriond banking system; (11) to liquidate two biggest Insolvent specialzed banks. Agroprom and
Elbcnk. which through thelr practfces, prevnt growth of thir new privaht compettr  and to
restrucuyb, through private recapitalization, two others: Prorstroi and AKB Kyrgyztn Banks; (Im) to
help co'lect or writ-off part of the non-performing loans extended by these banks, threby
accelerating the procss of enterprise restructuring or liquidation; and. (Iv) to promote the
development of nwly enmering non-bank financial instrautons.
3.    Dy this letrer, the Government requests continued iDA support In the form of th Finanial
Sector Adiustment Credit (FiNSAC). and the subsequent Financlal Sector Technical Assistance Credit
(FINSAC TA). Below Is the rcapitulation of the progres already made In reforming h flnancial
sectr, an well an measure, planned in the near future, with emphasis on Utose which will be
monitored under the given FINSAC.
0



- 75 -                                     Annex F
Page 2 of 13
1. CREATION OF THE ENABLING POLICY ENVIRONMENT
Sustaining Macroeconomic Stability
4.     The Government recognizes that sound macroeconomic policies are essential if the financial
sector Is to be effective. Despite considerable success achieved In reducing inflation, there remains
uncertainty about future Inflation projections and Its movements. We have conflrmed our intention to
continue to reduce both the size of the fiscal deficit and Its financing through the domnstic banking
system. Due to importance of macroeconomic stability for the success of financial sector reforms, we
will continue to maintain satisfactory macroeconomic and flscal performance in FY96 and FY97.
Removal of Earlier Policy-induced Barriers to Bank Profitability and Non-intervention In Banking
Activities
5.     At present, the banking system Is characterized by a heavy tax burden. The tax currently
includes a 45% corporate tax, that Is higher that a 30% tax on non-financial enterprises, and a
transaction tax on the basis of gross Income. Furthermore, the banks are not allowed to take loan-loss
provisions against their gross income, before tax. Thus, pretax profit is artificially inflated and taxed
away with the tax being significantly increased. Such an Ill-founded leakage of funds drains the
banking capital and discourages bank management from full accounting for all the likely loan-losses
thereby preventing from presenting fairly the financIal position of the bank. There is also a lack of
clarity about VAT administration and tax treatment in general.
S.     Under the Reform Program, the Govemment has submitted to the Parliament a Tax Reform
Bill as a result of which: (1) banks will be allowed to take loan loss provisions against their gross
Income, before tax; (Ii) the rate of profit tax on financial Institutions (45%) will be harmonized with the
productive sectors but not more than 30% in order to allow the banks to build up their capital, and to
lower substantially the costs of financial Intermediation; and (Ill) the current tax treatment will be
clarified to avoid confusion concerning tax exemptions, as well as which financial transactions are
VAT exempt.
7.     To build depositor confidence In the financial system, all state organs will need to desist from
practices that are not appropriate In an economy striving towards secure private contract relatons
and those which discourage the public from using banks for deposits and transactions. This applies in
particular to the tax collection throughout the year at the source, and seizure of bank deposits of
those believed to be in arrears on tax or loan payments, by the Tax Inspectorate. Current legislation
does not provide adequate safeguards agalnst potential abuse of access to restricted financial
information. A sharper legal definition of the scope, reasons for, and nature of infornation disclosure
on clients accounts and transactions to various Investigate organs will help in bringing savings and
transfers into the formal banking sector.
S.     Under the Reform Program, we have already submitted to Parilament a new Tax Code which:
(i) cancels the extraordinary powers given to the Tax Inspectorate In February 1994, Including in
particular the seizure of deposits; (11) cancels such powers given to other State organs; and (iil) limits
the Tax Inspectorate's and other State organs' rights (except those of NBK) to obtain information from
banks to Instances in which due cause justifies an investigation, thereby barring the current practice
of obtaining information from banks on a mass scale without specific justification. Before the release
of the second tranche of FINSAC, we will enact the new Tax Code, satisfactory to IDA.
Building a Competitive Market Structure
9.     At present, there is a high degree of market concentration in the banking system. The Big
Four specialized banks dominate the financial sector. These banks are able to outbid, at a loss, their
more efficient young competitors in the competition for resources and business, and to continue
operating, also at a loss, their large branch networks that dominate almost every area outside i3shkek.
To raise effciency among banks, as reflected In performance Indicators such as Improved
productivity, reduced intermediation costs and Increased profitability, the Govemment will take
actions to encourage competition among banks and to reduce Its own participation In the financial
system. The liquidatlonlrestructuring and privatization of state-owned banks will receive top priority in
the proposed financial sector Reform Program. The Govermment will promote the entry of foreign and
domestic banks. To avoid an excessive proliferation of small banks, the Govemrnment has already
increased the minimum and ongoing capital adequacy requirements for new and existing banks.
l



-76 -                                    Annex F
Page 3 of 13
II. STRENGTHENING THE LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
10.    A sound legal and regulatory framework is essential to improve flnancial sector efficiency and
to set up prudential norms. Since 1992, significant progress has been achieved In stipulating
prudential norms and phasing in their Implementation, giving NBK enforcement powers, and
developing NBK's supervision capabilities. Nonetheless, further progress is warranted, especially in
the implementation of-the new Banking Law and furtner improvement of N1K prudential regulations.
11.    The New Banking Law: The first Banking Law was adopted in 1991. The new Banking Law
prepared as part of the FIN5AC Reform Agenda, will contribute significantly to ensuring bank
prudence. The new Banking Law will further strengthen NBK's powers to set up limits to banking
activities, Inciuding: foreign exchange exposure limit, Banks; real estate holdings; and limits of
credits extended to affiliated companies and other connected parties by branches and other Involved
parties. To prevent a sudden withdrawal of capital by bank owners, the new Law will require banks to
be exclusively joint stock companies. The new Banking Law will also provide with a wide range of
legal powers and sufficiently high ceilings for sanctions,; both are reflected Inadequately in the present
Banking Law. Before the release of Second Tranche of FINSAC, we will enact the new Banking Law,
satisfactory to IDA.
12.    Prudential Regulations: A number of new prudental regulations for banks have recently been
adopted by NBK. These include minimum and ongoing capital adequacy requirements; liquidity ratios
and reserve requirements; loan classification and provisioning guidelines; restrictions on foreign
exchange transacUons; and lending limits including lending to sharehoiders and to a single borrower.
Guidelines for problem bank Intervention" have also been issued. NFK will continue to make
improvements In these regulations to bring them In line with International standards. Under the
Reform Program, NBK has already: (I) reduced the single borrower lending limit from 30% to (25A) of
capital for new banks; (i1) put a (15%) limit on aggregate lending to shareholders and other insiders
(Special donor credit lines will be exempt from this principle); (iii) raised the minimum capital
requirements, from 5 million to 10 million Soms for local banks, and from 10 million to 20 mililon Soms
for foreign banks; and, (iv) commenced the implementatIon of the Basie guidelines for capital
adequacy (i.e., 8/. of risk-weighted assets). Before the release of the Second Tranche of FINSAC. NBK
will enforce 25% maximum single borrower limit on all commercial banks.
Enhancing Security in Lending
13.    Loan collection is a key problem of banks in the Kyrgyz Republic. In order to enhance security
in lending, by facilitating the enforcement of collateral and other contractual rights, we are
contemplating strengthening the legal, Judicial, and registry framework for the use of pledges, the
handling of insolvent borrowers, and the reporting of credit These specific measures will be
supplemented by Improvements in the broader framework of property, company, and transaction
legislation. The first part of the Civil Code will become effective in the near future. New draft Law on
Companies and draft Addendum to the Law on Lease and Leasing Relations are currently being
completed.
14.    The New Law on Pledge. To curtail lending risk, and to reduce transaction costs, the banking
sector needs an effective and efficient law setting up the rights to use the collateral and mortgage
credit In the Kyrgyz Republic, this requires the finalization of new legislation, and the establishment
of a registry of pledges. Under the Reform Program, President of the Kyrgyz Republic has submitted to
Parliament, a new Law on Pledge, satisfactory to IDA. The new Law on Pledge introduces an efficient
out-of-court process yet gives to the debtor the right of court appeal prior to execution. Before the
relase of the Second Tranche of FINSAC, we will: (i) enact the new Law on Pledge, satisfactory to
IDA; and (ii) create a central registry system for pledges, satisfactory to IDA, to enforce the rights to
use collateral.
15.    Resolving Insolvency of Borrowers. The current Insolvency Legislation (1994) together Wth
the Implementation Regulations for Enterprises and Banks, provides a satisfactory basis for the
conduct of insolvencies In the Kyrgyz Republic. However, there are two key issues at present. First Is
the ability of the judiciary to apply the Insolvency legislation Is limited. This calls for simplified court
procedures, training of judges and other legal experts, and the dedication of adequate budget
resources to bankruptcy cases. Second In the Inability of 'the Uquidator' to start the liquidation
process without court involvement. This issue Is of paramount importance for timely and effective
liquidation of insolvent enterprises and banks. At present, It takes months to receive formal court
approval. To the extent possible a permit should be given by involved parties without court
intervention. Under the Refonrm Program, the Government has submitted to Parliament a Revised
2



-77 -                                    Annex F
Page 4 of 13
Insolvency Legislation that limits the time period given to court to one month (30 days) to approve
NBKs request to start the bank liquidation process. The same time limit will also apply to other
liquidation processes. Before the release of the Second Tranche of FINSAC, we will enact the Revised
Insolvency Legislation, satisfactory to IDA.
16.    Strenqthening the Judiciary. Legislation alone will not ensure lending If it is not effectively
and efficlently enforced. Under the Reform Program the Government will take steps to ensure that the
judiciary Is capable of understanding and complying with the legislation. These steps will Include
traIning of the judiciary, through flnancial and technical support to be provided under the
accompanying Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project (FINSAC TA).
17.    Creating a Viable Private Sector Client Base. Besides legal reform, continued progress In
privatization and enterprise reform Is crucial for higher security In lending, and virtually a precondition
for the success of financial sector reform In general. The key objectives of the PESAC and APEAC
reform program - creating a private sector client base that operates under market Incentives and seeks
profitability, hardening the budget constralnts of finns, Improving thelr governance through
privatizatlon, taking of nonviable enterprises out of business, and liquidating their assets, and
retructuring those with good prospects to become compettive and profitable - wfll be pursued with
vigor and perseverance. Before the release of the Second Tranche of FINSAC, we will (I) complete
coupon auctions for all enterprises Included In the 1996-97 Privatization Program, and reduce state
own-nrhip to a minorit share In a minimum of (320) enterprises Included in the 1996-97 Privatization
Program, except those In the major utilities that have Individual privatizatton plans aimed at attcting
strategic Investors; (II) offer ali potentially viable ERRA enterprises for sale, and Initiate liquidation
procedures for all the old ERRA enterprises and all others slated for liquidation. No funds will be
allocated to ERRA enterprises from the 1997 Budget, except for completion of the liquidation process;
and, finally, (Ill) fulfill all of the Second Tranche conditions of APEAC.
Strengthening Institutional Capabilities of Banks
18.    Poor technical capabilities and poor management are other major constraints to the further
development of sound banking. These deficlencies can be traced to: lack of accounting and auditing
systems appropriate for modem bankIng; slow development of skills and lack of collaboration with
foreign banks; and slow emergence of key sectoral Infrastructure, such as appropriate ciearing and
settlement systems.
19.   Introducina Adouate Bank Accountina and Auditina. Modem accounting and auditing
standards that are necessary for the expansion of financial Intermediation are being Introduced at the
NUIK and the commercial banks, with technical assistance from various donors. However, the financial
statements of some Kyrgyz banks are sUill being prepared along Russlan accounting principles. It Is
essential that Internationally accepted accounting standards (IAS) be adopted as soon as possible. A
new chart of accounts has recentiy been finalized, but It remains Inoperative. Before the release of the
Second Tranche of FINSAC, we will Introduce the new Chart of Accounts based on International
Accounting Standards (IAS) for all commercial banks, and enforce the implementation of thes
accounts in at least 5 commercall banks.
20.   Improving Payments and Settlement Systems, and Liquldity Manacement. The Government
understands that an effective payments system plays a crucial role in market economies by expediting
the setteoment of financial obligations among economic agents and regulating the financial relations
between participants. The deficiencies In the Kyrgyz Repubilics payments system are putting
considerable strain on commercial transactions. Despite some progres made, payments delays still
amount to about two days within a region and up to 14 days at tth Inter-regionai level. NBK foresees a
range of short-term Improvements that would Include, Inter ala, the establishment of regional clearing
houses which would transmit netted end-of-day positions to NBK where the final settlement would
take place. This strategy complies with the general line In the reforms of the banking sector which
reults in a prompt lessening of the role of big banks and In Involving new banks to a more active
participation. Under the Reform Program, a longer-tenrm reform strategy for payment and settlement
system will be developed and implemented with technical assistance from Japan and IDA.
21.    Teachina Modern Banking Skills. The Kyrgyz banking system has urgent technical training
needs. At present, the requisite knowledge and skills In most areas of modem banking are thinly
distributed through the banking sector. These Include, Inter alb: strategic planning, credit analysis
and risk management, International trade finance, and asset and labiltty management. Currently,
training Is carried out on an ad hoc basis by the banks themselves, as a component of certain aid
programs. Under the Reform Program, a comprehensive, coordinated bankers training program will be
3



-78 -                                   Annex F
Page 5 of 13
initiated with technical assistance to fulfill both the immediate, short-term needs, and to provide for
ongoing training and formal education within the banking profession.
ill. RESTRUCTURING OLD INSOLVENT SPECIALIZED BANKS
22.    The Big Four specialized banks - Agroprombank, Elbank, Promstrol and AKB Kyrgyzstan - are
Insolvent. In part, this sad financial state is the legacy of the eariler transition years when these banks
were state owned banks and operated on Instructions of the Government. Bad governance and
management, political pressures on tending and collection, and the weak condition and unfavorable
environment of the enterprise sector all contributed to their worsening loan portfolios. Under the
Reform Program, the Government has decided to: ({) liquidate Agroprombank and replace It In the
short term by an emergency farm support program for the provision of farm Inputs and workting
capital, and, subsequently, by a commercially viable and sustainable rural banking and cooperative
system; (II) dissolve the Elbank (the former Sberbank), to sell its viable assets to commercial banks
with good prospects; and (iII) substantially downsize and restructure, through private recapitalizatlon,
the Promstrol and AK8 Kyrgyzstan Banks. Bank liquidation and restructuring will be executed in a
way that sceks to preserve the provision of basic banking service during the transition.
Liquidation of Agroprombank
23.    Agroprombank In considered to be the largest bank In the Kyrgyz Republic and the
predominant lender to the agriculture sector, It has 52 branches throughout the country, 1,300
employees, and Its loan portfolio as of June 30, 1995 was more than I billion Some. The bank has not
been effective in collecting its loans, which have been rescheduled on a regular basis pursuant to
Government decrees. The loan portfolio has been funded almost exclusively by an overdraft at NBK
since the bank had virtually no deposits. If the required loan-loss reserves of 1 billion Soms were to be
booked, shareholders equity would be a negative 1 billion Sors. Agroprombank Is technically
bankrupt and its role as a distributor of directed credits has largely replaced its role as a bank. Its
profntable clients applied for services more and more often to smaller private banks. The agreed
reform strategy for Agroprombank was therefore to liquldate the bank.
24.    As is the case In any bank liquidation, there is a number of Issues which need to be
addressed, of which the most Important are: (l) the need to develop an alternative rural finance system
wvhich replaces the role of Agroprombank as the primary agricultural credit institution; and (i) the
need to clear debts on deposits; and (ill) Impact on the Government payment system If the nationwide
branch network of Agroprombank is closed.
25.    Rural Finance Strategy. It Is clear that neither Agroprombank nor any alternative rural finance
Institution will be viable and sustainable unless the agricultural sector becomes profitable. Farmers
need to be profitable to be eligible for seasonal credits and they will require access to longer-term
financing for equipment and other purposes If they are to be viable. Farm profitability continues to be
low, due primarily to farm gate prices which are below border price equivalents, as well as to low farm
efficiency. In these circumstances, It Is necessary to make a distinction between short-term
emergency assistance', which Is needed to keep a broad spectrum of the agricultural population
productive pending further adjustments in the economy, and an efficient commerclal" rural finance
scheme, which will be profitable and sustainable In the longer term.
26.    Over the past three years. the Government has achieved some progress towards reforming
the agricultural sector along market economy lines. About 40% of the total land area subject to
privatization has actually been distributed to Individuals in the form of land-use rights. The right to use
land for 99 years has been established, and a new Land Code has been submted to Parliament. In
accordance with this Code the right to use land will be transformed Into a property right that can be
freely transferred, inherited and used as collateral.
27.    Development of a viable rural finance strategy end provision of credit to farmers and other
viable off-farm processing activities are key priorIiUes for the Government The short and medium-term
elements of a feasible Rural Finance Strategy are being developed and managed under a separate
Rural Finance Credit from IDA. There is a Working Group on Rural Finance, established In the Ministry
of Agriculture, which is in process of developing proposals for a more efficient distribution of (I) farm
Inputs, and (11) working capital, funded from the central Government budget. These budget funds more
likely to be subsidized will be extended in the form of budget allocations approved appropriately.
However, the modalities of a longer-term commercially viable and sustainable rural finance strategy
are yet to be designed and agreed upon.
4



FROM  NFT I ONtL BANK
- 79 -                                  Annex F
Page 6 of 13
28.    Branch Network Rationalization. The Agroprombank branch network has been used by the
Kyrgyz Treasury, and the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, and the Social Fund to distribute
various pension, Govemment salary, disability, and social services payments to the population.
Certain branches have also been used to be Treasury to make remittances of collected taxes back to
Blshkek. Similar payments were made throughout the whole country through Promstroibank and AKB
Kyrgyzstan and, more often, through a system of post offices being a widely spread network in the
whole country. Some of the branches of Agroprombank could continue to act as " Agents of Treasury"
on an Interim basis for the purposes of continuing these payment distributions until a new
comprehensive system i- Implemented. Because the Agroprombank branch network is very
developed, and certain branches have a strong potential for sale or conversion Into a new financial
Institution in some manner, an independent analysis is currently being conducted by the intemational
firm to determine which branches of the Agroprombank network and In what capacity will survive in
future.
29.    Under the Reform Program, NBK has placed the Agroprombank under the receivership of
DEBRA, and started the liquidation process. Before the release of the Second Tranche of FINSAC,
DEBRA will (i) assess the value of Agroprom's assets; (ii) transfer all recoverable loan assets of
Agroprombank Into the Debt Recovery Unit (DRU); (iil) reduce staff levels and close or sell bank
branches; and (iv) submit a timetable to FINSAC Review Committee and IDA for completion of
liquidation of Agroprombank.
The debt of Agroprombank due to NiK is 965 million Soms. This amount represents a bad debt on the
books of NBK. To make the balance sheet of NBK whole again, before the release of the Second
Tranche, the Govemment will (iv) replace this amount by a long-term bond of 965 million Soms at 5%
Interest rate.
Liquidation of Elbank
30.    Elbank, the former Sberbank. is financially insolvent and highly unprofitable. Several factors
have contributed to this. First, the bank has never been properly compensated by MOF either for the
loss of assets "frozen" in Moscow upon the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991 or for the revaluation
of deposits upon the RublelSom conversion in 1993; the banks claims on MOF have not been
formalized and their amount is still In dispute. Second, the bank has, in the last two years, engaged in
careless lending, based on deposits that It attracted with above-market interest rates. At the same
time, NBK examiners classified about 80% of Elbank's loan portfolio as "loss" and the bank has been
receiving virtually no Interest income. Third, under past disaster relief and housing programs, the
bank has long-term, low-interest loans of about 85 million Soms outstanding. Whether it acted In this
matter merely as an agent for the Government, or actually took a credit risk, has never been clarified.
Fourth, the bank bears high non-interest costs due to its small average deposit size of less than 50
Soms and Its large branch network, although under NEK management the bank has now cut the
number of its outlets by one sixth. The minute deposit base in the rural areas, and the small volume
and value of payment transactions, are not sufficient to support the largest part of its network. The
image of the bank is fully discredited. A substantial part of new deposits during last two years has
been received from Bishkek enterprises which speculated to make profit from high Interest rates
despite risks Involved, discredited. The reform strategy, therefore, is to close the Elbank.
31.    Deposit Distribution Plan. The bank has over 2 million Individual depositors. Under the
Reform Program, the Govemment has decided to offer an Immediate compensation for depositors.
32.    Under the Reform Program, Elbank was declared Insolvent and Its license withdrawn on
February 14, 1996 by NBK resolution No.611. NBKs resolution 611 also approved a household deposit
pay off plan to be Implemented starting February 15, 1996. Total household deposit obligations to be
covered under this plan are 1051 million Some for prlncipal of deposits as of December 31, 1995 and
16.9 million Some Interest accrual for 1995 totaling 122 million Some. The interest accrual calculation
was based on the decision to pay 10% for the average balances on the demand deposits and 30% for
the average balance on the time deposits for 1995 only, regardless of the final maturity of these time
deposits. This way, the unrealistically high Interest on long-tern time deposits - some of them up to
five years and over - totaling 35% of the deposit base will be compensated only by the current market
Interest rates. The speculative depositors will thus be asked to face risks, and share part of the
financial burden.
33.    Major steps toward the liquidation of Elbank have already been taken. Before the release of
the Second Tranche of FINSAC, DEBRA will (i) assess the value of Elbank's assets; (ii) transfer all
recoverable loan assets Into the Debt Recovery Unit (DRU); (iii) reduce staff levels and close or sell
5



- 80 -                                   Annex F
Page 7 of 13
bank branches; and (iv) submit a timetable to FINSAC Review Committee and IDA for completion of
liquidation of Elbank.
Restructuring Promstrol and AKS Kyrgyzstan Banks.
34.    Promstroi Bank. Promstrol Is the local successor of the Soviet Bank for Industry and
Construction. It became a privatized joint stock company In December 1991 and has 400 shareholders
who are some of the largest Industrial and construction enterprises in the country. Founded in 1922,
tne bank has traditionally served as the Government s vehicle for directed credits to support state-
owned enterprises in these sectors. Since independence, many of the banks primary borrowers have
become shareholders In the bank. The agreed reform strategy for Promstroi Bank recognizes that the
Institution, while financially weak, is fundamentally sound on an operational basis. The bank haw been
operating with a positive net interest margin, and a sizable proportion of its loan portfolio (40%) Is
performing. It is believed, primarily because of the relatively small amount of new capital funds
required, that the bankl can be effectively restructured with private capital attracUon and without any
allocation of centralized state budgetary funds.
35.    AKB Kyrqyzstan Bank. AKB originated from the Soviet Housing and Social Commodity Bank,
and was reestablished as the first joint stock financial Institution In 1990. It has 600 staff and 26
branches. It is mainly in private ownership, although its Supervisory Council remains dominated by
state enterprise managers. It has build a leading position in foreign exchange transactions and plays
an important role in domestic payments. The quality of the bank's portfolio Is poor. As of October
1995, NBK classified roughly 84% of AKB s portfolio as non-performing. Of the total loans of 216
million Soms, 143 million is ranked as doubtful and loss, twice the current total equity of the bank.
AKB management regards a large part of these loans as "directed". Some portion of loans dates back
to before April 1994, when directed credits were officially discontinued. AKS has so far avoided
building the 120 million Som loan-less reserve that Is required by NBK s prudential guidelines. Such
loan-loss reserve will result in Insolvency of the bank with a negative equity position of 95 min. Soms.
Since July 1995, AKB has reported some improvement in its balance sheet trough the mobilization of
new enterprise deposits and the repayment of over 37 million Soms In debt to NBK. Although the
overall weaknesses In the banks loan portfolio remains unchanged, monthly cash flows have shown a
silght Improvement as well. Based on Its recent financIal performance, AKB management believes that
the bank can restructure itself over time. malnly because of the high level of collateral security on its
loan portfolio.
36.    Restructuring Strategy. The reform strategy for each of these two banks Is essentially an
Internally managed program which will require each bank to recognize Its loss positions with certain
loan assets and the credit risks associated with its remaining portfolio. In accordance with the
program for each bank, which will be acting under a "management letter agreement with the N8K',
they should: (i) write off loans classified as loss, and (ii) properly fund the NBK required loan-loss
reserves on Its remaining portfolio. This will result In the banks reporting negative capital positions.
Promstroi and AKB will then have a two-phase, time-bound requirement to bring their capital accounts
back to "zero", and further to raise additional capital to meet N8K capital adequacy requirements. The
reform program requires minimum intervention by the Government In these privately owned banks, at
least up until the point that bank managements are unable to raise capital. NBK will fornally Intervene
in the Institutions only if they fail to recapitalize themselves up to a "zero" capital level. The banks
themselves will absorb the costs of the resolution of their own poor credits as well as the funding and
Investments costs to bring the Institutions Into compliance with international banking practices. The
restructured banks, with their current nationwide branch networks significantly downsized will
continue operating.
37.    Should this approach prove unsuccessful, the Govemment will be faced with two choices: (i)
to restructure the banks by Issuing bonds to remove bad assets, thus making the banks more
attractive for new private Investors to acquire the bank and provide new capital; or (ii) to liquidate the
banks. In both cases, for the disciplinary purposes the banks w1il be placed under the receivership of
DEBRA, the management will be relieved, and losses will be distributed among shareholders in
accordance with the size of their Investments.
38.    Under the Reform Program, NBK has instructed the managements of Promstroi and AKB
Kyrgyzstan Banks to present capital increase plans, satisfactory to NBK and IDA, to bring the capital
from negative to "positive", or at least to "zero" level by October 31, 1996. and to reach 8% working
capital adequacy requirement by March 31, 1997. If the bank(s) are successful In raising capital to
positive" or "zero" level by March 31, 1997. NBK will instruct the bank(s) to present another capital
Increase plan to reach 8% working capital adequacy requirement by September 30, 1997. If the bank(s)
6



- 81 -                                   Annex F
Page 8 of 13
are not successful in raising capital to posttive" or xero" level by March 31, 1997, NOK will announce
official liquidation and start the liquidation process - before the release of the Second Tranche.
Financial Costs of Bank Liquidation and Restructuring
39.   In order to resolve the problem of Insolvency of Big Four banks, their past losses should be
charged with the shareholders of the banks, then officially recognized and financed by the budget.
These costs will include payments to depositors, the removal of bad assets from bank balance sheets,
an asset swap with the NBK to replace its claim on the Insolvent Agroprombank, severance payments,
and other costs associated with liquidation and restructuring. To the extent possible, shareholders
will be asked to provide new capital to make up losses before Govemment resources are used.
Recapitalization of the surviving banks, adjustment of capital to the minimum requirements prescribed
by the NBK, will come from new capital raised from private sources and rtained eamings.
40.    Bank Liquidation. The Govemment's potential obligations to protect Agroprombank
depositors is estimated at 60 million Soms, as of March 1, 1996. This amount assumes that current
liquid assets of 30 million Soms will first be used to pay off an amount of equivalent liabilities and
interests of depositors will be protected for the full amount of their deposits. Severance payments to
staff will add an additional 2 million Soms, thus, the total costs of resolving this case of bankruptcy
will approximate 62 million Some. In addition, the debt of Agroprombank of 965 million Some is due to
NBK. This amount represents a bad debt on the books of the NBK. To make the balance sheet of the
NBK whole again, this amount will be replaced by a long-term Government bond of 965 million Soms
at a certain nominal interest rate. At a 5% interest rate annual costs to the budget will amount to 48
milion Soms. However, since the NBK Is required to transfer 70% of Its profits to the budget, the net
cost to the budget will be about 15 million Soma annually. As collections are made from liquidated
assets of Agroprombank, these funds will be transferred to the budget to retire these bonds and
reduce the Government's interest payments to NBK.
41.    The Govemment's obligation, as owner of the Elbank, Is the payout of principal and interest to
depositors. In this regard, a deposit payoff plan has been worked out and its implementation started
In February 1996. NSK has provided 50 million Soms from own reserves to start implementing this
deposit payoff scheme until the counterparts from FINSAC will be available to the budget. If
necessary, this support will be extended until the first tranche of FINSAC is disbursed after which the
NBK costs will be reimbursed from the budget. There could also be receipts from sales of the assets
of Elbank that will be used to meet this deposit payoff plan, pay other obligations of Elbank to
commercial and Government social institutions and staff layoff costs. Thus the final costs to resolve
Elbank's Insolvency Is estimated at 122 million Soma and will be financed by FINSAC.
42.    Bank Restructuring. The Promstroi Bank will be recapitalized by its own shareholders and the
use of retained earnings. If this process is successful, there will not be costs to the Government. This
alternative appears to be feasible and preferable. However, should this approach prove unsuccessful,
the Government will have two choices: (i) to restructure the bank by issuing bonds to remove bad
assets from its portfolio, thus making the bank more attractive for new Investors intending to acquire
the bank and provide new capital; or (ii) to liquidate the bank. Of the two alternatives, the first, I.e.,
restructuring the bank by Issuing bonds to remove bad assets from the portfolio, Is the least costly
alternative. Potential obligations of the Government to restructure the bank and protect depositors will
include interest payments on Government bonds and the costs of retiring the bonds issued.
43.   If AKB Kyrgyzstan Bank Is successful in seizing and selling collateral and raising new capital
from shareholders and retained earnings, there will be no cost to the Government. If the Bank is
unsuccessful in raising capital, the Government will again have two choices: (I) to restructure the bank
through a bond Issue aimed at removing bad assets from its portfolio in order to make the bank
attractive for new private Investors intending to acquire the bank and provide new capital; and (ii) to
liquidate the bank, In the first case, the cost to the government will be principal of the bonds of 160
million Soms (the negative capital as of June 30, 1995 reported by the diagnostic audit) plus interest.
Assuming that these bonds carry 25% per year interest and are retired in equal Installments over the
five years, their cost in the first year would be 72 milflon Soms with a total cost to the Government of
272 mitlion Soms over five years. Instead of the bond issue, if the bank is liquidated, the Government
will have to decide whether or not the depositors and the NBK will be protected in full principal
amounts payable by the bank Instead of waiting for the liquidation proceeds from the bank to be used
to pay off these liabilities. The cost of the payoff to the depositors and NBK immediately and In full
principal Is estimated to be 138 million Soms (160 million Soms of deposits plus 23 million Some due
to NBK minus 45 mIlilon Some of cash and liquid assets of the bank as of March 1, 1996). The rest of
7



- 82 -                                    Annex F
Page 9 of 13
the recelpts from the liquidation of AKB Kyrgyzstan Bank will be used to pay the rest of the liabilities
of the bank.
Required Budgetary Resources
44.    The total need for budgetary resources required during the first twelve months of the program
will be In the range of 300-350 million Soms (a maximum of USS 32 million) or about 1.5% of GDP, as
initiai up-front costs during the first year (July 1996-June 1997). Thereafter, the program will cost
between 15-59 million Soms per annum, mainly as Interest on bonds to be issued as part of the bank
retructuring program. The proposed FINSAC will provide total financing of US$ 45 million, and thus
cover the flrst year's costs, and provide (at least) an additional US$ 13 million of budget support
during the life of the Credit. The counterpart funds generated under the FINSAC will be made available
to the central Government budget During the annual budget preparation process, funds will be
allocated and transferred from the budget to NBKIDEBRA, to finance the bank liquidation and
rstructuring program. Before finalizing the decision on the amount of counterpart funds to be
transferred to NBKIDEBRA, the Minister of Finance and NBK will have consultations with the IMF and
IDA, to ensure consistency with the macroeconomic program.
IV. RESOLVING THE BAD DEBT PROBLEM
45.    The non-performing loans that are currently in the portfolios of the Big Four formerly state-
owned banks are around 1.5 billion Soms (or about 10.3% of GNP). The recommended
liquidatlonlrestructuring strategy has been worked out from the point of view of bad assets In the
banking sector. Full forgiveness of these bad debts is an unacceptable option so far as it will create
moral hazard and will significantly push the enterprise reform process back.
46.    Under the Reform Program the Government has established a temporary Debt Resolution
Agency (DEBRA), which should act as the receiver on behalf of the National Bank of Kyrgyzstan
(NBK), and exert control over and dispose of the assets and liabilities of restructured commercial
banks. DEBRA's operations will comprise two areas: (1) the receivership function when DEBRA,
through its Bank Restructurlng Unit (BRU), will act as an agent for the NBK and be engaged in its
Intervention, receivership, conservatorship. deposit payout, and liquidation activities; and (ii) the debt
recovery function when DEBRA, through its Debt Restructurlng and Recovery Unit (DRU) will manage,
collect, restructure, liquidate, and resolve the non-performing loan portfolios and other assets of the
Intervened banks. It is envisioned that the scope of DEBRA's activities will initially encompass
Intervention and rationalization by the NBK of at least two of the four banks: Agroprombank and
Elbank. This list may be expanded to include AKB Kyrgyzstan and Promstroi banks as discussed
above, and any other Kyrgyz banks so Identified by NBK during the limited time span of DEBRA.
47.    Oroanization. DEBRA's mandate is set up for a period of three years. Operationally, DEBRA
will be headed by a Director who will report to the Chairman of NBK. The Director will manage daily
activities through deputy directors. The FINSAC state Review Committee will have the responsibility of
overseeing the implementation of key Government decisions under the FINSAC Reform Program. It
will be chaIred by the Prime Minister. The membership of the Committee will be comprised of the
Chairman of NBK, Minister of Finance, Minister of Economy, Minister of Justice, Chairman of State
Property Fund. Director od State Agency for Securities of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, and
Director of DEBRA.
48.    The Debt Restructuring and Recovery Unit will act as the vehicle through which all recoveries
are made to the Government and various other classes of creditors by collection of debts, loan
restructuring, and the Innovative use of debt resolution procedures on the outstanding non-
perforrning loan portfolios of restructured banks. DRU will organize activities of working teams which
will classify loans into pre-established categories and apply a series of "automatic criteria" to identify
debt resolution wherever practicable. DRU will apply standard debt recovery methodologies including
an analysis and review of the borrowers financial position as well as an appraisal of the value of
collateral, as applicable. In all cases, the concept of cost-effectiveness and duration in debt recovery
efforts will be applied; and operations where full recovery Is not assured will be avoided.
49.    Debt Recovery Principles. Certain categories of loans can be treated in various ways to effect
final debt recovery or resolution. Due to likely personnel and time constraints, debt recovery programs
Involving standardization and automatic criteria which streamline debt recovery actions will be widely
used. It is recognized by NBK management that dealing with hundreds of loans and borrowers on a
case-by-case basis may well prove to be a monumental and counterproductive effort, with positive
results unattainable within the expected life span of the proposed DEBRA.
8



- 83 -                                    Annex F
Page 10 of 13
S0.    While full recovery of a loan is the desired result, the Government recognizes that, for a
variety of reasons, this will not be a practical or realistic goal in most cases. Therefore other debt
recovery alternatives, such as those described below, will be considered:
A.     Debt Forgiveness. The Government may decide that It Is useful to forgive some or all
of certain portions of debt Such debt as excessive accumulated interest may be forgiven to give
incentives for payment of principal. There may also be certain types of loans, such as peasant farm
and small agricultural business loans, and those that are directly attributable to previous Government
policies of price intervention for the purposes of social protection, such as bread subsidy, may be
forgiven totally In the best interests of the economy.
B.     Discounts. In order to give borrowers the incentive to pay their debt, a possibility of
discounts will be considered. These could be In the form of one time discounts (such as a 25-50%
discount for full payment within a certain fixed time period, or discounts ensuring timely payments,
where a certain percent (such as 10-20%) discount is applied for each timely payment divided into a
series of payments by equal installments. Profitable privatized enterprises would be likely candidates
for this alternative to prevent foreclosure of collateral or possible bankruptcy measures.
C.     Debt Collateral Swap. Sometimes there may be instances when a borrower will be
willing to swap collateral for all or a portion of debt to prevent bankruptcy. Often such collateral Is not
marketable In the area of the country where the debtor is located. DEBRA, through its nationwide
operations, could transport the collateral to marketable areas. However, DEBRA would be able to
consolidate similar types of collateral from numerous debtors into acceptable marketable sizes.
0.     Debt/Equity Swap. There may be opportunities to exchange all or part of outstanding
debt for an equity interest in a debtor enterprise. Both the price and the type of the equity may be
agreed during such a swap. The easiest swap could be for common stock. However, to alleviate
concerns over the dilution of ownership whereln the Government could own a substantial or majority
part of the enterprise, alternative equity instruments could be swapped. This could take the form of
preferred non-voting stock, subordinated debt, or some type of instrument (such as a warrant or stock
coupon) that is convertible into common stock as long as the converter is not a Government entity.
Using this approach, DEBRA could take an Instrument convertible to common stock and sell it,
possibly on the stock exchange, to private Individuals thereby avoiding the transfer of privatized
enterprises into state ownership.
E.     Restructuring of Debt. So that non-performing borrowers could start paying their
debts It may often be necessary to change a debt structure. This may take various forms, most often
restructuring of the terms (maturity date(s), interest rate, payment amounts, timing of payments, etc.)
and setting up some type of enterprise "cash flow" payment requirements (when payments are based
on the cash flow of the business such as receipt of accounts receivable). When negotiating the terms
of debt restructuring it is recommended to obtain additional collateral, or other forrns of guarantees,
etc.
F.     Auction/Sale of Debt. Selling loans individually or in packages of several homogeneous
loans may be a viable disposition alternative, This can be through elther public or sealed bid auctions.
Large loans tospeclalized companies orwith distinctive collateral lend themselves tosealed bid auctions.
Smaller loans, packaged using similar attributes, such as type of enterprise, type of collateral, geographic
location of borrower/collateral or loan size are good products for sale through either public or sealed bid
auction. Loan collateral, especially movable type, such as cars, equipment, furniture, fixtures, etc., Is
conducive to public auction on a cash and carry basis.
G.     Bankruptcy. DEBRAmanagementwillalsorecognizetheuseofbankruptcyproceedings
asatoolorthreatforcollection;particularlyinthosecaseswheretheborrowerhasthecapacitytorepay
but refuses to work with DEBRA. Also, the borrower may have other assets that can be obtained through
court to use In extinguishing the debt. There will also be Instances where analysis shows the borrower
Is not vlable under any scenarlo and bankruptcy may be the only viable option. However, bankruptcy and
the confiscation of collateral Is an option that should be carefully considered, as certain types of
collateral may not be easily marketed and could be costly to maintain. Costs to maintain and store
9



-84 -                                     Annex F
Page 11 of 13
collateral should also be taken Into account. These may Indicate that bankruptcy may not be a cost
effective business alternative.
51.    Farm vs. Non-Farm Debt. Certain types of debt lend themselves to some debt resolutlon
alternatives better than others. In the Kyrgyz case, the most significant division ofdebt appears to be farm
versus non-farm debt. In dealing with farm debt, the most relevant debt resolution alternatives involve
anyora combination ofdebtforgiveness, collateralexchange and/or restructuring of debt. in the non-farm
debt, although debt forgiveness and collateral exchange may be applicable In certain cases, the most
practical alternatives are discounts, debtUequltyswaps, and restructuring of debt. These methods are also
the best methods to be used by Promstrol and AKB Kyrgyzstan Banks, vis-a-vis the debtor enterprises.
52.    At an early stage after its establishment, but before the release of Second Tranche of FINSAC,
DEBRA will prepare a report, satisfactory to IDA, classifying the non-performing loans under its control
Into two categories that will be treated differently: (I) those where the work plan for collection will be
based on "automatic criteria" appropriate to the loan category; and, (ii) others where a more systematic
case-by-case approach Is practicable. This report, satisfactory to IDA, will be integrated Into the Key
Operating Principles of DEBRA.
V. ENCOURAGING THE DEVELOPMENT OF NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
53.    The securities market In the Kyrgyz Republic is still in an early development. In the coming
years, however, the supply of securities will increase rapidly due to the conversion into joint-stock
companies and privatization of state enterprises and due to advantages of conversion into securities
of government borrowing. To cope with this challenges, the Government will create a framework for
the orderly development of these markets, not only to raise efficiency, but to avoid the possible
collapse or public distract of markets which might occur if they are allowed to develop in a haphazard
or disorderly way. The Structural Reform Program of the Kyrgyz Republic will also result in an
Increase in entry of securities to the securities markets, particularly, shares of privatized enterprises
and state bonds issued as a result of the debt/equlty swap. Soon there will be also secondary markets
of Treasury bills, bonds and shares. The main problem will be In a deficient demand of savings on
these capital markets. To solve these problems, Government will introduce two sets of measures: first,
making securities more attractive by removing constraints to their profitability and giving investors
confidence in the integrity of the markets; second, laying the basis for efficient and sound contractual
savings Institutions that will intermediate between small savers and the capital markets. Further
efforts vwill also be made to enhance public interests in mass privatization, reduce excessive taxation,
and deepen mnarkets for Government debt instruments.
How to Make Securities More Attractive
54.    The Kvrqvz Stock Exchange. So far, many resources have been concentrated on establishing
the infrastructure of a well-developed stock exchange. While much has been achieved in this respect,
there are no indications that the Kyrgyz Stock Exchange will in the short-term be financially self-
sustaining and be able to render the above-described services. For a long-term perspective, a viability
assessment of the stock exchange will be made. The volume and fees of listing and of turnover will be
estimated, and the resulting income projections will be compared with the expected operating costs of
the stock exchange. While the total savings in the economy may take a long time to recover, their
mobilizatlon in the capital markets can be stimulated. The attractiveness of capital market investments
may be enhanced, especially through the use of privatization coupons; excessively high taxation will
need to be cut back; and the public confidence In the orderly functioning of the markets may be
ensured.
55.    Enhancina Public Interest in Mass Privatization. By mid 1995, 52% (i. e., 1,8 billion) of issued
privatization coupons remained uninvested. An additional 901 million coupons have not even been
placed yet, and await sale by the State Property Fund (SPF) when it deems it possible. To create
favorable conditions for the use of coupons, a greater number of more attractive enterprises will be
brought forward for privatization. In addition, public confidence in investment funds will be enhanced,
as discussed below.
56.    Reducing Excessive Taxation. Current tax policy. including high corporate taxes, makes tax
avoidance dominate in many business decisions. This undermines efforts to attract more listings to
the exchange, to properly record securities transactions, to obtain reliable financial information, and
to build fair and transparent markets. The growth of NBFls remains constrained, and most
10



-85 -                                     Anex F
Page 12 of 13
transactions take place on informal capital markets. One important measure would be a tax credit or
pass-through mechanism to avoid double or treble taxation; such treble taxation occurs as taxes are
levied on the profit of corporations, then on net Income of investment funds eamed from post-tax
dividends from those firms, and finally again on the personal Income from share-holdings In these
funds. Other measures may include a contingent reduction or elimination of taxes on securities
tra nsctions.
57.    Deepeninia Markets for Various Debt Instruments. The rapid widening and deepening of
mrarkets for debt securities will hasten capital market development, generate more information
fundamental to the functioning of the financial markets, and facilitate the cash management of banks,
develop contractual savings Institutions, and corporations. The creation of an organized secondary
treasury bills market which will operate within the framework of the Kyrgyz Stock Exchange has
already been discussed between representatives of the NBK and stock exchange. Efforts are also
underway to Issue Government bonds directly to the public through the stock exchange, by
Introducing longer maturities and smaller denominations.
Providing a Framework for Sound Contractual Savings Institutlons
58.    As the Kyrgyz Republic's fledgling capital markets gradually gain scale and efficiency,
contractual savings institutions should play a growing role as well. The basic policy legal, and
taxation framework needs to be prepared in the meantime. Only investment funds are somehow
significant today, due to their role In privatization. Their activities require thorough control to avoid
failures or fraud that could discredit contractual savings Institutions at this early stage of
development.
59.    Investment Funds. Investment funds which were established mainly to deal in privatization
coupons have so far had mixed results. The coupon privatization was In fact expected to boost the
emergence and growth of such funds. By mid-1995, however, the vast majority of coupons was not yet
invested at all, and of those invested, only some 30% had gone through investment funds. Moreover.
many of these funds are currently In a poor financial atate. Further failures in the work of funds and
the attendant loss of public confidence could seriously set back capital market development. The
funds distress stems mainly from the following: (a) limited amounts of cash eamed In exchanges for
shares, which is due to the poor quality of the privatized enterprises; (b) the 25% limit on any fund s
stake in an enterprise, and the shortage of investable savings in the economy; (c) poor fund
management; (d) not skilled fund management; and (e) lack of effective prudential supervision. Fund
management needs substantial training, and perhaps assistance, in accounting, assetnllabllity
management, enterprise governance, and related subjects. The recently issued investment Fund
Accounting Guidelines, which also regulate reporting and disclosure, needs to be implemented. The
responsibility for the funds supervision lies currently with SPF rather than the State Agency for
Securities (SAS), since they are "specialized" funds. However. SPF barely exercises this function, and
SAS lacks the powers. This responsibility will shift to SAS, once the authority and capabilities of SAS
have been boosted under the Refonn Program.
60.    Before the release of the Second Tranche of FINSAC, the Ministry of Finance will review and
amend the prudential regulations for "Investment Funds", satisfactory to IDA, from the point of view
of strengthening these regulations; and implement the recently issued Investment Fund Accounting
Guidelines.
61.    Insurance Companies, Insurance companies are currently moving away from credit insurance
practices, because In this area companies have major losses, and instead of this they are more
actively involved in property, accident, life and voluntary medical insurance. It is thus developing a
potential for playing a major role In the country's financial market. However, a continued use of former
Soviet accounting practices Inhlbits the assessment of the following: (a) cash reserves that could be
invested in securities; (b) transparent rnarket values of investments; and (c) nature and maturity
profiles of liabilities. Measures to enhance the development of insurance companies will include, inter
alla: the preparatlon and passing of a new Law on Insurance, as Indicated below; the introduction of
new accounting practices; the building up of effective prudential supervision; the transfer of skills
through tolerant policies vis-a-vis foreign Insurers and reinsurers.
62.    Pension Funds. Pension fund activity In the Kyrgyz Republic is still marginal. In the long run.
however, partially or fully funded pension funds will become major investors of household savings ir
the capital markets. Given this potential, the Governmnent is obtaining full technical assistance to
review the fundamental options for the future nature and scope of the country s pension systerr.
11



-86 -                                     Annex F
Page 13 of 13
policies, regulations and tax arrangements. This will be foilowed by the development of policies, a Law
on Pension Funds and specific regulations.
63.    Before the release of the Second Tranche of FINSAC, a now law on Insurance Companles, and
a new Law on Pension Funds will be prepared, and existing legislation on Leasing will be improved.
These three new legislations will be submitted to Parliament.
Safeguarding Investor's Interests
64.    Curr.ntUy, there are no prudential regulations applied to the activities of non-bank financial
Institutions that deal with general public such as Insurance Companies and Pension Funds. These
institutions can lead to systemic financial Instability of the event of failures. In the case of securities
market, the 1991 Law on Securities and Stock Exchanges has been amended to establish a legal
frameworkc for creating open and transparent formal trading relations. Although the legal framework is
very essential, enforcement of the law Is also necessary. The enforcement capability of the State
Agency for Securities (SAS) is not sufficient to Implement this LAW. The SAS is a small agency with
huge responsibilities for regulating and supervising capital markets and their tNBFls. Soon It is
assumed to enforce the Law on Securities and Joint Stock Companies. Although efforts to upgrade its
status and resources have shown some results. SAS Is still short of adequate authority, personnel,
training, facilities, equipment and budget.
65.    Under the Reform Program, the status of the SAS will be transformed from an administrative
agency Into the executive arm of a Securities Commission, compris-ng the heads of MOF, MOJ, NBSK
SPF and SAS Itself, as well as a representative of the stock exchange. The involvement and standing
of these ministries and agencies and a strong Influence of the Government will help to attract the
required resources and to obtain authority for implementation of securities regulations. It will also
help to consolidate the authority for all securities markets regulations and their supervision In one
institution. After some time, the President will appoint a number of full-time commissioners. In
parallel, a professional organization of brokers and dealers will be created to represent the interests of
this sector and to promote its development.
Sincerely,
A. DZHUMAGULOV
Prime Minister
12



- 87 -
Annex G
Page I of 1
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Financial Sector Adjustnent Credit
ANNEx G: TMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
Time for Preparation:    7 months
Identification Mission:  July 17, 1995
Pre-Appraisal Mission:   December 4, 1995
Appraisal Mission:       March 26, 1996
Negotiations:            May 9, 1996
Board Presentation:      June 25, 1996
Expected Effectiveness:    July/August 1996
1



- 88 -
Annex H
Page 1 of 2
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
STATUS OF BANK GROUP AND IFC OPERATIONS IN THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS '
(As of April 30, 1996)
US$ Million
Credit    Fiscal                                                                        (Less Cancellations)
No.        Year       Borrower                        Proiect                          Credit    Undisbursed bJ
24910     1993      Kyrgyz Republic      Rehabilitation                               60.00       0.48
26390 s'  1994      Kyrgyz Republic      Private & Ent. SAC (PESAC)                   60.00       0.00
26340     1994      Kyrgyz Republic      Telecommunications                           18.00       17.97
26430     1995      Kyrgyz Republic      Social Safety Net                            17.00       14.66
27170     1995      Kyrgyz Republic      Private Enterprise Support                   15.00       14.31
27500 "   1995      Kyrgyz Republic      APEAC                                       45.00       20.85
28590     1996      Kyrgyz Republic      Sheep Development                             11.6        11.6
28680     1996      Kyrgyz Republic      Power and District Heating Rehab              20.0       20.0
Total number of Credits = 8                                                            246.6    99.87
Total d/                                      246.6
Of Which: Repaid                         _
Total Now Held by IDA                         246.6
Total Amount Sold                              0.0
Of Which: Repaid                         0.0
Total Undisbursed                                       99.87
a/   The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA  financed projects in execution, which
is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
b/   The Undisbursed amounts are the US$ equivalent of the amount in SDR.
c/   SAL/SECAL Credit.
d/   Total approved, repayments, and outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Credits.
1



-89 -                                         Annex H
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of February 29, 1996)
(US$ Millions)
FY       FY           Description             Sector        Loan   Equity   Total  Other Undisbursed
Appr. Committed
A. Approved and Committed (Siened) Proiects
95       95    Kumtor Gold Company    Mining & Extraction 40.00    0.00   40.00   0.00         9.00
Total Gross commitments                                 40.00    0.00   40.00   0.00         9.00
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments & sales
Total commitments now held                              40.00    0.00   40.00   0.00         9.00
B. ADDroved Proiects Pending Commitment
Total pending commitments
Total commitments held and pending commitments
Total undisbursed commitments                            9.00    0.00    9.00
2



- 90 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 2
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
ANNEx I: SUPERVISION PLAN
IDA Supervision Input
1. It is envisaged that about 65 staff weeks (four review missions) will be required for supervision of
FINSAC - 45 SW in FY97, and 20 SW in FY98. Supervision will involve in-country review of the
reform program; a review of progress reports provided by the Borrower; and review of procurement and
disbursement actions, correspondence, and donor coordination.
Organization and Timing of Supervision Missions
2. Review missions will be led by the FINSAC Task Manager and will include staff and/or consultants
who are specialists in areas of commercial banking, bank liquidation and restructuring, prudential
regulation, international accounting and auditing standards, debt resolution, payments and settlements
systems, and non-bank financial institutions.  Because of the importance attached to satisfactory
macroeconomic performance as a condition of tranche release, a macroeconomist from the Country
Operations Division will be invited to participate in the review mission preceding the second tranche
release. Close cooperation will also be maintained with the IMF. The Supervision Missions will leave
behind detailed Aide-Memoires with specific suggestions on the next steps to be followed by the Borrower
for successful implementation of each component. The Second Supervision Mission (second in FY97,
to be held in November/December 1996), will be called Mid-term Implementation Review (MIR) and be
conducted jointly with IDA and the Borrower. At the end of this review, a "Timetable of Tranche
Release" will be prepared and signed by the Governor of the National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic and
the FINSAC Task Manager. This timetable will specify clearly the actions to be taken by the Borrower
between the mid-termn review and the release of the Second Tranche. Implementation advice, including
matters of accounting and auditing, based on experience with the ongoing adjustment operations, will also
be provided on a continuous basis by the Bank's Resident Mission in the Kyrgyz Republic.
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
3. The National Bank of Kyrgyzstan, with assistance from the Ministry of Finance, State Agency for
Securities (SAS) and DEBRA, will be responsible for implementing the overall Financial Sector
Adjustment Program. The National Bank of Kyrgyzstan will have the primary management responsibility
for the reform program as a whole. The bank liquidation and restructuring component and the resolution
of the bad debt problem will be implemented by DEBRA. The program to encourage the growth of
NBFIs will be carried out under the leadership of the Ministry of Finance with the assistance of NBK and
the SAS.
4. The FINSAC Management Unit (FMU) will be established in the National Bank of Kyrgyzstan. On
matters of disbursement the FMU will be assisted by the Project Management Unit (PMU) already
established in the Ministry of Finance under previous IDA adjustment operations. The FMU will report
1



- 91 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 2
implementation progress periodically to the FINSAC REVIEW COMMITTEE, led by the Prime Minister
or his designee, and submit quarterly reports to IDA, within one month of the quarter's close. The
quarterly reports will monitor: (a) progress in creating and sustaining an enabling policy environment;
(b) progress in establishing and sustaining an enabling legal and regulatory environment; (c) progress in
liquidation and restructuring of the "Big Four" state/formerly state-owned banks (d) progress in
encouraging the growth and development of NBFI's. Responsibility for coordinating arrangements with
IDA Supervision Missions and for the timely transmittal of quarterly progress reports, other documents,
and information would rest with the National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic.






I3RD 26822
80
KAZAKSTAN
,~~~~~~N.  ( Ko,'Eo6(
,/-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISK KU L-    P- -   t]                                      5   *
k-                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7439
*-   o         .z?             , ,     <              1          rl ~~~~~~~ ~~         ~ ~~~~~~~~A R Y N     ,_.     K,--  
~.r   /,   N   
rIs~  <  ,-- .---   w    :J --
C.~~~~~~C
S~~~~ -~ -6                                                 $O-Ok OAS nROL                                                                  --                                  v
- lt-   -   ._.\r._   .)  %~--.  nL                                                            KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
T A J I K I S T A N                                                                                                                                      R D-4--n- RAILROADS
'0  0 0,,,,b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /                                                                        _______  ~~~~~~~~~~~~MAI   ROADS
'2N  ~    ~        ~       /'~si                                                                                                                     - OTHER ROADS
RBAI.-                 K A Z A K 5 T A.\4                                                                                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL
A r& - -\u> >  _   \             r > s                                                                      @BO M E 7 E R S                            l  O BL A S T   C A P IT A L S
0   SELECTED CITIES
R8LOMET8RS                        ~~~~~~~~~~~OBLAST BOUNDARIES
T \ >- \<               I _8b                                                                        50 Is                  100 5-    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
sLTyL,  ;    _ - .1~'    fl3'L  L                 sh_n. n ...  do.z-'pi-    .   -Tp   ..o..Th W                      LES
t F IhAN   f   t  1  {i .   C H - .1 A      r cc- .ance ol suchCbHIndo l
(   AFGHAN 4r cj.









IMAGING
Report No: P-   6891 KG
Type: PR



