Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                              CREDIT NUMBER 2890 KG
                    Development Credit Agreement
                (Financial Sector Adjustment Credit)
                               between
                           KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                                 and
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated July 3, 1996
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2890 KG
                    DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 3, 1996 between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS the Association has received a letter dated May 24, 1996,
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's
financial sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the
execution thereof; and
      WHEREAS on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Association has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in two tranches as
hereinafter provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
                  "'Project' means the program, referred to in the
                  Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, in
                  support of which the Credit is made.";
      (b)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
      (c)   Section 4.01 is modified to read:
                  "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
                  otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account
                  shall be made in the currency of the deposit account
                  specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit
                  Agreement."
      (d)   Section 5.01 is modified to read:
                  "The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the
                  proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in
                  accordance with the provisions of the Development
                  Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions.
                  Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
                  otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a)
                  on account of expenditures in the territories of
                  any country which is not a member of the Bank or
                  for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
                  such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any
                  payment to persons or entities, or for any import
                  of goods, if such payment or import, to the know-
                  ledge of the Association, is prohibited by a
                  decision of the United Nations Security Council
                  taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
                  United Nations."
      (e)   The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
      (f)   Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
                  "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing
                  Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
                  purpose between the Borrower and the Association,
                  the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
                  Association a report, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
                  on the execution of the program referred to in the
                  Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the
                  performance by the Borrower and the Association of
                  their respective obligations under the Development
                  Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
                  purposes of the Credit."; and
      (g)   Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as
modified above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections
9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "APEAC Credit" means the credit made by the Association to
the Borrower pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement entered into
between the Borrower and the Association on July 28, 1995;
      (b)   "DEBRA" means the Debt Resolution Agency established
pursuant to Resolution of the NBKR No. 17/1, dated May 3, 1996;
      (c)   "Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
Page  3
      (d)   "ERRA" means the former Enterprise Reform and Resolution
Agency, now known as the Foreign Investment Promotion Agency;
      (e)   "NBKR" means the National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic;
      (f)   "Som" means the Borrower's currency; and
      (g)   "1996-97 Privatization Program" means the program attached
to the Borrower's Governmental Resolution No. 82, dated February 28,
1996.
                             ARTICLE II
                             The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty
one million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 31,200,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to
the Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account,
and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in
Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association
into the Deposit Account.
      (b)   Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Deposit
Account in support of the Program.
      (c)   The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit
shall not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Association shall
have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have
been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit
into the Deposit Account  an amount equal to the amount of said
payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such
amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon
such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation.
      (d)   No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 15,600,000 unless the
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described
in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the
Association: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; and (ii) that the actions described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been taken. If, after said exchange
of views, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that
the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within
ninety (90) days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved
progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, then the
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit or any part thereof.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set
Page  4
as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to
paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be
applied from the next payment date in that year specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15,
2006 and ending January 15, 2031. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 15, 2016 shall be one and one-fourth
percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 Dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring
the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modifica-
tion.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                             ARTICLE III
                        Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program  and the actions
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on the
Page  5
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Associa-
tion on any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the
Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objec-
tives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Upon the Association's request, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   have the Deposit Account audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
      (b)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six (6) months after the date of the
Association's request for such audit, a certified copy of the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
      (c)   furnish to the Association such other information concern-
ing the Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall
have reasonably requested.
                             ARTICLE IV
                   Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                              ARTICLE V
                             Termination
      Section 5.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VI
              Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            58, Erkindik Avenue
            Bishkek 720874
            Kyrgyz Republic
                                           Telex:
                                           245-156 NUR KH
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
Page  6
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                        By /s/ Almas T. Chukin
                                          Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                            Europe and Central Asia
                             SCHEDULE 1
                       Excluded Expenditures
      For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds
of the Credit shall not be used to finance the following expenditures:
1.    expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
2.    expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract
which any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Association or the Bank shall have financed or agreed
to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed
or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.    expenditures for goods included in the following groups or sub-
groups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers,
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or
sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the
Association by notice to the Borrower:
      Group       Subgroup           Description of Items
      112             --             Alcoholic beverages
      121             --             Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                     tobacco refuse
      122             --             Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                     or not containing tobacco
                                     substitutes)
      525             --             Radioactive and
                                     associated materials
      667             --             Pearls, precious and
                                     semiprecious stones, unworked
                                     or worked
      718         718.70             Nuclear reactors, and
                                     parts thereof, fuel elements
Page  7
                                     (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
                                     nuclear reactors
      728         728.43             Tobacco processing machinery
      897         897.30             Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                     platinum group metals
                                     (except watches and watch
                                     cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                     silversmiths' wares (including
                                     set gems)
      971             --             Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                     gold ores and concentrates)
4.    expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military
purpose or for luxury consumption;
5.    expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes
of this paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means
goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under
the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the
Borrower is a party); and
6.     in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General
Conditions, expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which
is not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services
supplied from, such territories, or (b) on account of any payment to
persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
                             SCHEDULE 2
               Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d)
                          of this Agreement
1.    The Borrower's macroeconomic and fiscal performance continues to
be satisfactory to the Association, according to indicators agreed with
the Association.
2.    The Borrower has created a central registry system for pledges,
satisfactory to the Association, for the enforcement of security rights.
3.    The Borrower has enacted a law on banks and banking activities,
and on tax reform, in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
4.    The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Association
that the NBKR has introduced a new chart of accounts based on
international accounting standards for all commercial banks, and has
enforced the implementation of these accounts in at least five commercial
banks.
5.    The Borrower has completed coupon auctions for all enterprises
included in the 1996-97 Privatization Program, and has reduced State
ownership to a minority share in at least 320 enterprises included in
the 1996-97 Privatization Program, except for the major utilities that
have individual privatization plans.
6.    The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Associa-
tion that: (a) it has offered all potentially viable ERRA enterprises
for sale; (b) it has initiated liquidation procedures for all other
ERRA enterprises slated for liquidation; and (c) no funds have been
allocated to ERRA enterprises from the 1997 budget, except for the
completion of liquidation procedures.
7.    The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Associa-
tion that the NBKR has enforced a 25% maximum single borrower lending
limit for all commercial banks.
8.    The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Associa-
tion that DEBRA has: (a) assessed the value of Elbank's and
Page  8
Agroprombank's assets; (b) transferred all recoverable loan assets of
these banks into a debt recovery unit; (c) reduced staff levels and
closed or sold bank branches of these banks upon recommendation by
the NBKR; and (d) prepared a timetable, satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, for the completion of the liquidation of Elbank and Agroprombank.
9.    The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Associa-
tion that it has issued a long-term bond of 965 million Soms at an
interest rate equal to 5% in exchange for a debt owed by Agroprombank
to the NBKR.
10.   If either Promstroi Bank or AKB Kyrgyzstan Bank has been unable
to increase its capital from a negative to a positive or, at least, to
a zero level by March 31, 1997, the Borrower has provided satisfactory
evidence to the Association that the NBKR has placed such bank under
formal receivership and started liquidation procedures; if, on the
contrary, either bank has increased its capital from a negative to a
positive or, at least, to a zero level by March 31, 1997, the Borrower
has provided satisfactory evidence to the Association that the NBKR
has instructed such bank to prepare a capital increase plan allowing
it to reach an 8% capital adequacy requirement by September 30, 1997.
11.   The Borrower has amended the prudential regulations for invest-
ment funds, in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
12.   The Borrower's Government has prepared and submitted to the
Borrower's Parliament draft laws on insurance companies and pension
funds, and draft amendments to the law on leasing, in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.
13.   The Borrower has enacted a law on pledge and amendments to the
law on bankruptcy, satisfactory to the Association.
14.   The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Associa-
tion that DEBRA has prepared a report classifying the non-performing
loans under its control into two categories that will be treated
differently, namely: (a) non-performing loans, the collection of
which will be based on general debt collection criteria, satisfactory
to the Association, applied automatically; and (b) non-performing
loans, the collection of which will be based on a case-by-case
approach, satisfactory to the Association.
15.   The second tranche of the APEAC Credit has been released.
