Document of
THE WORLD BANK
Report No.: 17065 EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
November 17, 1997
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY
Currency Unit: Egyptian Pound (LE)
(As of November 1997)
LE 1.0      =       US$0.295
US$1.00     =       LE 3.39
LE          =       100 Piasters (PT)
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CIDA                    :  Canadian International Development Agency
DANIDA                  :  Danish International Development Agency
EEAA                    :  Egyptian Environment Affairs Agency
EIB                     :  European Investment Bank
EMU                     :  Environment Management Unit
EPL                     :  Environment Protection Law
ERSAP                   :  Economic Reform and Structure Adjustment Program
FIM                     :  Finnish Mark
FINNIDA                 :  Finnish International Development Agency
GIPAP                   :  Governorate Industrial Pollution Action Plan
GOE                     :  Government of Egypt
GOF                     :  Government of Finland
GTZ                     :  German Technical Cooperation Agency
IBRD                    :  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                     :  International Development Association
JICA                    :  Japanese International Cooperation Agency
KfW                     :  Kreditanstalt fur Weideraufbau of Germany
LIBOR                   :  London Interbank Offer Rate
METAP                   :  Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Program
NBE                     :  National Bank of Egypt
NIB                     :  National Investment Bank
NEAP                    :  National Environment Action Plan
NGO                     :  Non-Government Organization
ODA                     :  Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom
PAAP                    :  Pollution Abatement Action Plan
PAF                        Pollution Abatement Fund
PE                      :  Public Enterprises
PHRD                    :  Policy and Human Resources Development Fund of Japan
PIP                     :  Project Implementation Plan
PIU                     :  Project Implementation Unit
SA                      :  Special Account
SC                      :  Steering Committee
UNDP                    :  United Nations Development Program
USAID                   :  United States Agency for International Development
WHO                     :  World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
Vice President:               Kemal Dervi§
Country Director:             Khalid Ikram
Acting Sector Director:       Salah Darghouth
Task Manager:                 Sherif Arif



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN/CREDIT AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY  ......................................................................                       i-iv
I.  BACKGROUND                                    ...........................................................                   1
A. Economic Context ......................................................................1
B.  Environmental Pollution and Health Impacts in Egypt .........................................                   2
C.  Legal and Institutional Framework ......................................................................3
D.  Government Policy and Actions on Industrial Pollution .......................................                   4
E.  Donor Support for Environmental Management and Industrial Pollution    ............                             6
F.  Rationale for Bank Involvement ......................................................................7
G. Lessons Learned from  Previous Industrial Pollution Control Operations .............                             7
II. THE PROJECT                                                           ...8
A. Project Design Alternatives                                            .8
B. Project Objectives                                               .8
C. Detailed Project Description                                           .8
D. Project Costs .11
E. Project Financing Plan .12
F. Sub-Projects Eligibility Criteria .12
G. Financing Arrangements .13
III.   THE  BORROWER ......................................................................                                      14
A. The Banking Environment ......................................................................                 14
B.  The National Investment Bank  (NIB) ...................................................................       14
IV.   PROJECT  ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGEMENT ..................................................                                  17
A. Project Implementation ......................................................................                  17
B.  Procurement ......................................................................                             18
C.  Disbursement ......................................................................                           20
D. Accounts and Audits ......................................................................                     21
E.  Project Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation ......................................................           21
F.  Environmental Impact ......................................................................                   22
G.  Sustainability ......................................................................                         22
This report is based on the results of a pre-appraisal/appraisal mission in December 1995 and was prepared by Messrs. Sherif Arif (Task
Manager), Hans-Roland Lindgren (Senior Environment Specialist), Bjorn Larsen (Environment Economist), Rouchdy Saleh (Environment
Specialist), John Staflrik (USAID Consultant), Douglas Hickman and Andre Marsan (Consultants). The report was edited by Ms. Katherin
Golitzen. Mmes. Tuyet Chuppe, Conchita Castillo, Josephine Salang and Mr. Govind Bora provided invaluable assistance in the preparation
of the report. Peer reviewers are. Messrs. Stephen Lintner (ENV), and Roy Pepper (PSDEN). Mr. Salah Darghouth (MNSRE) is the Acting
Director; Mr Khalid lkram (MNCEG) is the Country Director; and Mr Kemal Dervis (MNAVP) is the Vice-President.



ii
Page No.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS   ..   23
A  Project Benefits ..................................................................  23
B. Economic Analysis ...............                                             24
C. Cost-Effectiveness Analysis ...........................................................  25
D. Financial Analysis ...........................................................    25
E. Project Risks ...........................................................    26
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..........................................   26
TABLES
Table 2.1: Project Costs .11
Table 2.2: Project Financing Plan .12
Table 3.1:  NIB Resources and Investment Financing - 1993-95 .16
Table 3.2  NIB Financial Performance - 1993-95 .16
Table 4.1:  Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements .19
Table 4.2: Disbursement Plan .20
Table 4.3: Estimated Loan and Credit Disbursements .20
Table 5.1  Sub-Project Benefits and Costs .24
Table 5.2:  Estimated Pay-back Period and Financial Return .25
ANNEXES
Annex 1:   Overview of the Industrial Pollution in Cairo and Alexandria
Annex 2:   Projects in Environmental Management and Industrial Pollution Earmarked by
International Donors from 1994-96
Annex 3:   Summary of the Environmental Investments of the Sub-Project Pipeline
Annex 4:   Detailed Project Costs
Annex 5:   Description of a Potential Apex Bank - The National Bank of Egypt (NBE)
Annex 6:   Options for Providing Grants to Industrial Enterprises
Annex 7:   Approval Process for the Environmental Investments
Annex 8:   Key Performance Indicators
Annex 9:   Implementation Schedule
Annex 10:  Economic Justification of Sub-Projects
MAP No.:  IBRD 27757



Pollution Abatement Project                                                              i
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower                          For IBRD Loan: The National Investment Bank (NIB)
For IDA Credit: The Arab Republic of Egypt
Guarantor                  :      The Arab Republic of Egypt
Implementing Agencies       :     The Egyptian Environment Affairs Agency (EEAA),
Apex and participating banks
Beneficiaries              :      EEAA, Environment Management Units in the Governorates,
local NGOs and professional associations, private and public
industrial enterprises, and participating banks
Loan/Credit Amount         :      IBRD Loan:        US$20.0 million
IDA Credit:      SDR 10.9 million (US$15.0 million
equivalent)
Terms                      :      IBRD Loan:        20 years including 5 years of grace, standard
interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar
single currency loan
IDA Credit:      Standard for 35 years including 10 years of
grace
Commitment fee             :      For IBRD Loan:   0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver
For IDA Credit:   0.50 percent on undisbursed credit balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver
On-lending Terms           :      (i) The total amount of the IBRD loan and IDA credit would be
made available to NIB, the Borrower, on standard IBRD and IDA
terms respectively, for on-lending and awarding grants through an
Apex Bank and participating banks; a guarantee fee of 0.125
percent would be payable to the Government of the Arab Republic
of Egypt (GOE); (ii) NIB would on-lend funds to an Apex Bank at



Pollution Abatement Project
the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar
single currency loans plus 0.25 percent per annum to cover its
costs for Apex banking functions; and (iii) Sub-loans to borrowers
would be at prevailing market rates of interest. In case sub-loans
are made in Egyptian Pounds, the Apex Bank and participating
banks would bear the foreign exchange risk for their borrowers.
Project Objectives         :      The objectives of this pilot project are to strengthen the
monitoring and enforcement capabilities of the environmental
institutions and establish technical and financial mechanisms for
pollution abatement investments in Greater Cairo, Alexandria, and
the two Suez Canal cities of Suez and Ismailia.
Project Description        .      The Technical and Institutional Support Component (14.2 percent
of project baseline cost), which is cofinanced by a grant from the
Government of Finland (GOF), would provide for:
(a)  Strengthening the capacity of three EEAA branches and
four Governorates' EMUs;
(b)  Development of Pollution Abatement Action Plans;
(c)  Support for Environmental Audit Programs; and
(d)  Promoting Awareness and Media Education Programs.
The Pollution Abatement Investment Component (80.1 percent of
project baseline cost) would provide financing for pollution
abatement sub-projects in private and public industrial enterprises.
The sub-projects would include waste minimization, pollution
prevention, resource recovery, adoption of clean technology, fuel
substitution and only as a last resort, end-of-pipe environmental
control where no other alternatives are available.
Benefits                          The proposed project would: (i) introduce innovative and
replicable market mechanisms for environmental management
that simultaneously develop collaboration between the financial
and regulatory/enforcement institutions and industrial enterprises;
(ii) assist the GOE in improving its monitoring/enforcement
capacity; (iii) introduce pollution prevention investments as a tool
for environmental management in Egypt; and (iv) promote the
participation of the NGOs and the media to create a public
expectation for the governorate and the industrial enterprises to
adopt good environmental and safety practices.
Risks                      :      The project faces four significant risks: (i) If enforcement of the
environmental laws is not sufficiently strengthened, the industries
may not have a sufficient incentive to undertake abatement
measures. The technical and institutional component is designed
to support the strengthening of the institutions in charge of



Pollution Abatement Project                                                         iii
enforcement; (ii) The on-lending terms and conditions may
become uncompetitive in an environment of concessionary terms
provided by the bilateral donors. This risk would be, however,
minimized by conducting periodic consultations with the bilateral
donors on the on-lending conditions and grant arrangements; (iii)
The enforcement and the financial institutions have limited
experience and in-house capabilities for environmental
management and environmental lending. To minimize this risk,
the technical and institutional component is mostly directed to
building up those capabilities through technical assistance and
training; and (iv) Egypt has a track record of inadequate
implementation performance. This risk would be minimized by
financing through the participating banks the priority sub-projects
already appraised, and by delegating the procurement review and
disbursement monitoring responsibilities to the Resident Mission
in Egypt.
Estimated Costsa/
Local          Foreign          Total
Component                              (US$ Million)
Technical and Institutional Support    1.8             5.1             6.9
Pollution Abatement investment        4.0             35.0            39.0
Incremental Operating Costs           1.9                              1.9
Total Baseline Costs                7.7             40.1            47.8
Physical Contingencies                0.1              0.1             0.2
Price Contingencies                   0.2              0.5             0.7
TOTAL                     8.0             40.7            48.7
a/ The project cost is exclusive of taxes and duties.
Financing Plan
Local          Foreign          Total
Source of Funds         _       _ _    (US$ Million)
GOE                                   4.0                              4.0
Enterprises                           4.0                              4.0
GOF                                                    5.7             5.7
IBRD                                                  20.0            20.0
IDA                              __15.0                                15.0
TOTAL                     8.0             40.7            48.7



iv                                                              Pollution Abatement Project
Estimated Loan and Credit Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Bank Group Fiscal Yar
FY98     FY99      FY00      FY1l FY02            FY03
IBRD/IDA Annual         0.2       1.6       5.0      16.5       6.0        5.7
IBRD/IDA Cumulative    0.2        1.8       6.8      23.3      29.3       35.0
Economic Rate of Return               It is difficult to estimate an ERR given the difficulty of
quantifying the environmental benefits. Based on a sample
of sub-projects appraised, accounting for 51 percent of
project cost and for which health benefits could be
quantified, the lower range of ERR varies from 13-30
percent (Annex 10). These estimates should be treated with
caution given the uncertainties regarding the functional
relationships between health impacts and reductions of
various pollutants.
Poverty Category                      Not applicable
Environmental Rating                   "B"
Prcject Identification No.            54958
Map No.                                IBRD 27757



Pollution Abatement Project                                                             I
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Economic Context
1.01    At the beginning of 1991, Egypt embarked on an Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment
Program (ERSAP). Major reforms relevant to the proposed project are: liberalization of financial markets,
mainly through the abolition of nominal ceilings on interest rates and of foreign exchange controls;
recapitalization of public banks to enhance solvency; promulgation of prudent banking regulations;
liberalization or adjustments towards market-determnined levels of key prices, including energy prices; and
trade reforns and initialization of public sector restructuring and privatization. Industrial share of GDP was
30 percent in 1996, while the manufacturing share was 23 percent. Private investment has not responded
significantly since the implementation of ERSAP and stands at about 11 percent of GDP. Unemployment
increased from an estimated 15 percent of the labor force in 1990 to 17.5 percent in 1994. Industrial public
enterprises (PEs) account for nearly 60 percent of manufacturing output.
1.02    As a result of ERSAP, 314 industrial public enterprises were removed from the control of the
sector ministries, and were organized under 17 financially autonomous holding companies reporting to a
newly established Ministry of Public Enterprise. Holding companies and their operating enterprises were
cut off from access to the Government's budget and concessionary credits. The PEs are presently in the
process of selling their non-essential assets and some are subjected by their holding company to various
degrees of restructuring. Their managers were directed to operate on a commercial basis in response to
market conditions, and encouraged through substantial performance incentives to maximize profits. As
managers are focusing on financial costs and profits, they are faced with two major interrelated challenging
constraints: unemployment and the degradation of the environment due to industrial pollution. The most
polluting sectors are the cement, chemical, fertilizer, metallurgical and pulp and paper industries. Many of
these enterprises are characterized by old and highly polluting capital stock, poor management, deferred
maintenance and inadequate health and safety of their workers. They require substantial investments to
comply with the environmental laws (para. 1.04).
1.03.    A review of the Government's policies on energy and natural resources indicate that electricity
and domestic petroleum products are now priced at about 80 percent and 90 percent of their international
level, respectively. Slow progress was made on the price of industrial water which represents about 35
percent of operation and maintenance costs in Egypt. Institutional weaknesses of water and wastewater
authorities is at the heart of poor cost recovery. In 1995, the Government has established 7 new economic
authorities with powers to operate on a commercial basis with full cost recovery. A 20 percent increase in
water and wastewater tariffs was implemented in Alexandria in 1996 and a similar increase is expected in
Cairo. The adoption of an appropriate pricing policy for energy and natural resources by the Government is
fundamental for changing pollution related behavior and for inducing the industrial enterprises to invest in
pollution abatement technology.



2                                                                  Pollution Abatement Project
B. Environmental Pollution and Health Impacts in Egypt
1.04    Since 1960, Egypt's rapid industrialization has resulted in indiscriminate investment and
production by both the public and private sector without emphasis on the protection of the environment and
the health of the population. Thirty-five percent of Egypt's population of 57 million (1993) lives in the
cities of Greater Cairo (consisting of the Govemorates of Cairo, Guizeh and part of Qaliubiya), Alexandria
and the Suez Canal Cities of Port Said, Ismailia and Suez (IBRD Map No. 27757). A severe air and water
pollution situation already exists in the two largest cities--Greater Cairo and Alexandria--which account for
over 80 percent of the industrial activity in Egypt. Serious environmental problems are also likely to extend
to the cities of Suez, Ismailia and 10th of Ramadan (50 km southeast of Cairo) where private industrial
activities are expanding rapidly. With the exception of the new cities of 10th of Ramadan and 6th of
October, industries are concentrated in highly populated areas, exposing more than 10 million people to
industrial pollution and resulting in serious health risks. The Bank estimates that the total cost of cleaning
up the industrial sector in Egypt is about US$1.3 billion, or about 0.4 percent of GDP over a ten-year
period. Annex 1 provides a summary of the industrial pollution issues in the project areas of Greater Cairo
amd Alexandria.
1.05    Greater Cairo, with a total population of 15 million and 126 PEs, is considered to be the most
polluted city in Egypt. The areas with the severest pollution are the Helwan-Tebbin industrial zone south of
Cairo and the Shubra El Kheima, Mostorod and Abuzaabal zones north of Cairo. The Helwan-Tebbin
zone includes 90 large and small industries of which the 18 major polluters are the cement, iron and steel,
coke, lead smelter, refractory, automotive and military factories. Shubra El Kheima includes 1300
medium and small scale industrial enterprises such as metal foundries, food processing, detergent and soap
manufacturing, textile, paper production and glass industries. Approximately 800 smaller scale, privately
owned industries are located throughout Cairo. These include 52 tanneries discharging toxic substances
such as chromium, and 12 lead smelters as well as many other metal smelters.
1.06    The concentration of total suspended particulates in Cairo is on average 5 to 10 times higher,
sulfur dioxide 4 times higher, smoke and lead 3 times higher and nitrogen oxides 2 times higher than WHO
guidelines. Air pollution is severe in Helwan, resulting in ambient concentrations of dust, lead and sulfur
clioxide that are 10, 50 and 3 times higher than the WHO guidelines respectively. Untreated industrial
waters discharge into the Nile, agricultural drains and sewers, resulting in surface and groundwater
contamination with cyanide, phenol, and toxic substances such as chromium and cadmium. However,
Cairo has now converted to unleaded gasoline. This would expect to decrease lead emissions.
1.07    A USAID-financed health-risk assessment study in Greater Cairo showed that air pollution due to
lead and dust is the most severe health risk, followed by water pollution. The study estimated that lead
pollution resulting from leaded-gasoline and lead smelters in Greater Cairo causes 6,500-11,600 heart
attacks, 800-1,400 strokes, 6,300-11,100 cardiovascular deaths and 800-900 infant deaths per year and an
average IQ loss of 4.25 points per person. A World Bank study estimated that 15,000-17,000 premature
dleaths per year are caused by excessive air particulates, sulfur dioxide and lead, predominantly emitted
from transport and industry in Greater Cairo. The National Environment Action Plan (NEAP) (para. 1. 15)
reported that, in areas close to the cement plants, 29 percent of the children suffer from lung diseases
compared to 9 percent in rural areas. Toxicity caused by lead was reported among the workers of the lead
smelter belonging to the General Metal Company of Helwan. Lead content in the blood of some of the
workers was 6-8 times the WHO guidelines. Other surveys have also shown that about 20 percent of the 1.1



Pollution Abatement Project                                                             3
million habitants of Shubra El Kheima suffer from lung diseases because of high exposures to smoke and
sulfur dioxide.
C. Legal and Institutional Framework
1.08    Legal Framework. There are many sectoral laws regulating the environment in Egypt. The
most important laws directly relevant to industrial pollution are: (i) Law 93 of 1962 regulating water
discharges to the sewage systems which gives the responsibility for implementation to the Ministry of
Housing and Public Utilities; (ii) Law 48 of 1982 protecting groundwater and all fresh surface water which
is enforced by the Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources (MPWWR) and the Ministry of Health;
and (iii) the Environment Protection Law (EPL) 4 of 1994, which provides general principles for
environmental management and protection, and is the responsibility of the Egyptian Environment Affairs
Agency (EEAA).
1.09    The Environment Protection Law expands Egypt's regulatory requirements to all areas of
environmental concern, including workers inside the plants and the general population. It is based on a
command and control (CAC) approach but mandates the provision of incentives (including economic
mechanisms) and promotes pollution prevention. It gives the polluting establishments a period of three
years (starting from the issuance of the Executing Regulations [ER] of February 1995) to comply with most
provisions, with potential additional extensions of two one-year periods; otherwise, the establishment may
be shut down. This law requires that each establishment maintain a register of its environmental quality and
emissions. It also gives every citizen and organization the right to report any violation of the law.
1.10    An Environment Fund (EF) was established in 1986 to finance EEAA activities and operations.
Subject to public budgetary rules and management, its major source of revenues has been a 10 percent
"tourism and environment tax" imposed on the price of airline tickets, which generated in 1995 about
US$3.0 million equivalent for EEAA. The fund's sources of revenue were expanded in the EPL, to include
grants, penalties, fiscal taxes and state budgetary contributions. EEAA is presently designing, with
DANIDA assistance, a management structure and program activities for maximizing the use of this fund.
1.11    The track record of enforcement and compliance under the sectoral laws which are still in effect
has been poor. Actions have generally been taken against small operations that have little adverse
environmental impact.  It is therefore unlikely that the implementation of all legally established
requirements under the EPL could be achieved during the compliance period of 5 years. A realistic
judgment is that it may take up to 20 years for industry to comply with the EPL and its ERs. Furthermore,
the fact that EEAA is not the only enforcement agency complicates the implementation of this law. Now
that the ERs are being applied, the GOE realizes that implementation of this law is costly and technically
complex. The GOE intends, therefore, to focus first on the major polluters and polluted industrial zones
and assist them to move towards compliance, while developing a longer term program for a comprehensive
monitoring, compliance and enforcement program (MCE). The proposed project would provide the
necessary technical and institutional tools to assist the GOE in focusing on the major polluters.
1.12    Institutional Framework. At the policy level, a Minister of State for Environmental Affairs was
nominated in July 1997 to be in charge of the environment portfolio. At the operational level, the
Environment Protection Law mandated EEAA as the national agency under the Cabinet of Ministers to be
responsible for the coordination and supervision of environmental affairs. The recently approved EEAA
organizational structure includes two operational departments of environmental management and
environmental quality and a separate policy and evaluation unit, all reporting the EEAA chief executive



4                                                                Pollution Abatement Project
officer (CEO). EEAA is managed by a Board chaired by the Minister of State for Environmental Affairs,
and includes EEAA's CEO, representatives of six sector ministries, NGOs, business associations and
universities. EEAA's annual budget is LE 9.0 million (US$2.6 million). At present, EEAA has a staff of 66
professionals who is expected to grow to 220 within the next six years.
1.13    EEAA is expected to establish eight regional branches to cover the 26 Egyptian governorates
witlh priority given to the branches which include industrial cities. The establishment of these branches will
be undertaken with the assistance of DANIDA and JICA (Annex 2). One of the branches' functions is to
enforce, through environmental inspectors, the Environment Protection Law (EPL), and coordinate
enforcement in cooperation with sector ministries and govemorates.  The latter should establish
environment management units (EMU) in accordance with the Local Governance Law, which regulates the
local government administration in Egypt. At present EMUs have been established in the Cairo,
Alexandria, Aswan, Fayoum, Ismailia, North Sinai, Red Sea and Suez governorates.
1.14    The environmental institutional framework suffers from: (a) a lack of effective operational
strategies; (b) redundancies and fragmentation of responsibilities between the EEAA, the sector ministries
and the govemorates; (c) weak monitoring capacity at the national and local level; and (d) limited technical,
management and enforcement capabilities to address the major environmental issues of the country.
Addlitional technical assistance for strengthening monitoring and enforcement capabilities at the regional
and local levels would be provided under the proposed project to mitigate these constraints. Such technical
assistance would complement EEAA's institutional strengthening activities financed by the donors (para.
1 .191).
D. Government Policy and Actions on Industrial Pollution
1.15    Since the implementation of ERSAP, the Government of Egypt (GOE) has taken concrete actions
to improve the environmental conditions and enforcing its own regulations through the preparation of the
National Environment Action Plan (NEAP), the development of a pricing and taxation policy as well as the
estalblishment of economic incentives. In 1992, the GOE has adopted the NEAP as the major tool for the
defiinition of environmental priorities and policies. The GOE is also continuing to adjust the pricing of
energy and natural resources (para. 1.03). It has also prepared a Unified Companies Law which will apply
equally to the private and public sectors. In this law which is being studied at the People Assembly, a
system of tax exemption is proposed in accordance with specific criteria. Among the criteria for qualifying
for lax exemption are the use of modern production methods and environmentally friendly practices. In
addition to the Environmental Fund (para. 1.10) and on the basis of the Environment Protection Law which
authorizes the use of economic incentives, the GOE has already begun to establish pollution charges and
fees to reduce dust emissions from cement and pollutant levels in wastewater. In 1995, an annual surcharge
of LE 5.0 (US$1.5 million) was imposed on the sale price of a ton of cement sold. The cement fund has
generated LE 80 million (US$23 million) in order to finance the investments to reduce dust emissions in the
cement plants. The GOE has already completed a study, financed by USAID, for establishing strength
effluent surcharges necessary to recover the costs of removing biochemical oxygen demand (BODs)
substances and total suspended solids (TSS) generated by the industrial enterprises. The application of
these surcharges started to be introduced in Alexandria in 1996. The GOE is also studying the possible
introduction of environmental taxes on polluting energy fuels, leaded gasoline, agro-chemicals, hazardous
substances which are being considered in the context of the replacing tariff revenues that will be lost with
the expected free trade agreement with the European Union.



Pollution Abatement Project                                                           5
1.16    All the above actions demonstrate the GOE commitment to introduce the polluter-pays principle
and provide the industrial customers with economic incentives to reduce pollution levels in their
establishments. Furthermore, the GOE has requested Bank assistance for updating the NEAP in order to
focus on investment priorities and resource mobilization. Such an update would enable the GOE to shape a
sound and coherent environmental policy based on the command and control approach and economic
incentives in order to ensure the integration of effective environmental management into Egypt's micro- and
macro-economic policies. During the mid-term review (para. 4.21), the GOE and the Bank would assess
the progress made on the above actions as well on additional economic policies and incentives for
environment protection. In the next five years, the GOE thinks that the large costs of industrial clean up and
limited resources in the PEs would impede pollution control investments for which medium and long-term
(M&LT) financing is required. At present, local financial institutions do not provide M&LT loans for
purely environmental investments because of a lack of technical capacity and familiarity with
environmental lending. A financial mechanism coupled with financial incentives is therefore required to
encourage enterprises to invest in pollution control during the compliance period (para. 1.09). Discussions
between the GOE senior officials and the Bank re-affirmed the GOE commitment to establish such a
mechanism through the proposed project, so that polluting enterprises would not be able to plead lack of
information, resources or incentives as an excuse for not curtailing pollution.
1.17    In order to promote the Environment Protection Law during the compliance period, the GOE,
acting through EEAA, would adopt under this project a three-tiered National Pollution Abatement Action
Plan (NPAAP):
(a) At the national level, EEAA, in coordination with relevant ministries, would define the scope
and priorities for pollution abatement on the basis of the NEAP.
(b) At the local level, each governorate would establish a Govemorate Industrial Pollution
Abatement Plan (GIPAP) in collaboration with the industrial enterprises, as part of a
Governorate Environmental Action Plan for which bilateral donors' assistance is being
provided. The Govemorate's plan would be used as the basis to evaluate and implement
process modemization and waste minimization according to a priority list established by the
governorate authorities in collaboration with EEAA.
(c) At the industrial enterprise level, each individual plant selected from the priority list of the
major industrial polluters [para. 2.04 (b)] would be asked by the govemorate to develop a
Pollution Abatement Action Plan (PAAP) consistent with the GIPAP. The PAAP, using the
integrated pollution control approach, would describe appropriate actions to comply with the
environmental standards, the schedule for implementation, amount and type of pollutants that
would be reduced, the required investment costs, the employment implications, the
monitoring that must be performed by the company, and other conditions that the
Governorate office and EEAA feel are necessary.
1.18    Each PAAP prepared by an enterprise would be fornalized by an executive order issued by the
Governor in accordance with the Local Govemance law. Implementation of the PAAP's mitigating plan
will be monitored by the EMU with support form the EEAA's regional branches. In case of lack of
progress, the Governor could suspend or revoke the operating license of the enterprise. The Local
Governance Law permits such suspension in order to preserve safety and health conditions of the workers
and the population. Furthermore, EEAA would provide assistance to selected NGOs [para. 2.04(d)] under



6                                                                Pollution Abatement Project
this project, in order to follow-up on the progress of the PAAP and ensure ownership by the local
community potentially affected by the polluting enterprises. The proposed project would also provide
rnanagement and technical assistance to prepare pollution abatement action plans at the governorate and
plant levels.
E. Donor Support for Environmental Management and Industrial Pollution
1.19    The proposed project has been designed to complement the environmental management and
industrial pollution control activities programmed by 13 international donors during the period 1994-96 for
a total of about US$164.8 million (Annex 2). Activities financed by CIDA, DANIDA, EIB, FES, Italy,
JICA, METAP, GOF, GTZ/KfW, ODA, Switzerland, UNDP, and USAID were based on the NEAP and
included: (a) strengthening the institutional and technical capacity of EEAA, the sector ministries and
governorates (US$20.5 million); (b) establishing a national water and air quality monitoring network and
environment information system (US$12.7 million); (c) supporting local NGOs and environment businesses
by the private sector (US$15.4 million); (d) conducting environmental audits in key industrial sectors
(US$11.0 million); and (e) financing demonstration projects and pollution control investments in specific
plants (US$105.2 million). During project preparation, several bilateral and international donors were
consulted to avoid duplication of efforts, to ensure that the projects will be mutually supportive, and to take
advantage of the results of the studies and activities currently in place. As a result of these consultations, the
Government of Finland agreed to provide a direct financing grant of FIM 26.0 million (US$5.7 million
equivalent) to co-finance the technical and institutional support component of the project (para. 2.04). The
European Investment Bank (EIB) is also extending with a loan of ECU 15.0 million (US$16.5 million
equivalent) for pollution abatement investments.
1.20    Of particular relevance to the proposed project are two ongoing projects financed by KfW. The
first one is the Program Support to the Private Sector Industry and its Environment Protection (DM 64
million, or US$46.0 million). This project provides, through three local joint-venture banks, loans for plant
rehabilitation and expansion. The loan maturities to the private sector enterprises are for 5-8 years with one
year of grace at an interest rate near the lower end of the market rate. The environmental investments as
components of the private sector rehabilitation program, are eligible for grants up to 50 percent of these
costs. This project is under implementation.
1.21    The second projector is the Facility for Financing Environmental Protection in the Public Sector
T'his facility would finance 15-20 industrial wastewater treatment projects for PEs and the utilities of the
Egyptian Electricity Authority. It includes a credit component to be provided by participating banks and
enterprises and a grant component of DM 50 million (US$35.5 million) which could provide up to 50
percent of the investment costs for end-of-pipe treatment and 20-25 percent for process modernization. The
credit component could provide a loan for 30-35 percent of the investment cost, with 3-5 year maturity, one
year of grace, and interest set at the lower end of the market range. The public sector entity is expected to
raise 15-20 percent of the investment cost from its own resources, though the participating banks could
wiaive this requirement. This project has just started.
1.22    During project preparation, the Bank and KfW  have regularly exchanged information and
coordinated the design of their respective projects with EEAA as well as the proposed lending
arrangements. KfW's second project and the Bank's proposed project have similar features. Both would:
(a) assist industry to comply with the EPL; (b) channel funds through the local commercial banks; and (c)
use grants as incentives for environmental investments. The projects are mutually supportive. KfW project



Pollution Abatement Project                                                             7
focuses on industrial wastewater and targets 5 percent of the industrial public sector; the Bank project
would finance environmental investments in public and private sector industrial enterprises, using the
technical and institutional support component to facilitate compliance and enforcement of the
environmental laws.
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.23    The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Egypt discussed by the Board on May 29,
1997 has four major thrusts: (a) export development; (b) private-sector-led growth; (c) human resources,
development; and (d) natural resources, environment and rural development. The Bank's Egypt Country
Assistance Strategy Note on Environment (February 1995) as well as Egypt's National Environment Action
Plan (May 1992) identify industrial pollution, institutional capacity building and management of natural
resources as the three major environmental priorities in Egypt. The Bank has prepared in draft a Pollution
Prevention and Abatement Handbook which focuses on promoting new and cost effective approaches based
on integrated pollution prevention for managing industrial pollution issues. The proposed project would
respond to both the GOE's and the Bank's objectives to improve the environment, reduce damage to human
health, support effective environmental management at the national and local levels, and test in the field the
Bank's new approaches to industrial pollution control in Egypt. If successful, the project could transfer
experience to other private and public industrial programs in other countries in the Middle East and North
Africa.
1.24    The proposed project is also consistent with the Bank's Private Sector Development (PSD)
assistance strategy. The Bank's strategy is to support reforms in the policy, regulatory and incentives
framework and market-based interventions to promote responsible environmental behavior by the business
sector. Under the proposed project, the Bank would play a major role in helping the GOE introduce an
innovative and replicable process for addressing industrial pollution, as well as mobilizing and enhancing
the effectiveness of other donors' resources earmarked for environmental protection. IFC is currently
designing a Mediterranean Environment Fund to be capitalized at US$50.0 million for financing
environmental investments in Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Tunisia, West Bank and Gaza. Such Fund
would alleviate the shortage of financing necessary to address among its project components, the
environmental requirements of polluted enterprises.  The proposed project would complement this
innovative IFC initiative.
G. Lessons Learned from Previous Industrial Pollution Control Operations
1.25    The main lesson emerging from the Bank's environmental project experience is that broad-based
policies supported by strong institutions should be in place if pollution abatement projects are to be
successful. These policies include: (a) use of an integrated pollution control approach with a combination
of command-and-control (CAC) and market-based incentives; (b) strong institutional capabilities in
monitoring and enforcement; (c) public participation; and (d) Government commitment and ownership. In
recent Bank operations, support for such policies was supplemented with financial mechanisms in the form
of credit lines. The latter were established through domestic banks (India, Brazil and China) or through a
separate national Pollution Abatement Facility (Russia) for on-lending to polluting enterprises on a long-
term maturity of 7-10 years with a 2-3 year grace period and at an interest rate below market rate. Grants
and concessionary loans were used in industrial pollution control projects for common treatment facilities
(India), demonstration projects (India), and sanitary landfills (China). The project will strengthen the above
policy elements in Egypt.



8                                                                Pollution Abatement Project
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Design Alternatives
2.01    Three alternatives were considered for project design: (a) a technical assistance project which
would put in place effective environmental monitoring and enforcement mechanisms to induce demand for
environmental investments; (b) an investment project which would reduce exposure to hazardous pollution
in a particular geographical area (such as Helwan) or in a heavily polluting industrial sector (chemicals
and/or metallurgy); and (c) a pilot project which would establish a monitoring and enforcement mechanism,
introduce integrated pollution prevention as a tool, and put in place, on a pilot scale, a financial mechanism
for industrial pollution control. The first and second alternatives were not selected because of the
availability of grant funds for technical assistance (para. 1.19) and the unavailability of large capital funds
to mitigate the numerous pollution problems in the most polluting industrial sectors. The third alternative
was specifically requested by the GOE as it would promote cost effective and voluntary pollution
lprevention and abatement during the compliance period and establish a pollution abatement fund in the
local banks to finance a limited number of pollution abatement sub-projects, while the environmental
regulatory and enforcement capacity is being developed. This pilot project will therefore not attempt to
resolve the industrial pollution issues of the country; rather it will initiate the process of strengthening the
Government's institutional capacities in monitoring and enforcement and simultaneously develop
collaboration between the industrial enterprises, the financial sector and the regulatory and enforcement
institutions through financing a limited number of environmental investments.
B. Project Objectives
2.02    The project's broad objective is to assist the GOE in reducing industrial pollution causing adverse
]health effects and/or ecological degradation. Its specific objectives are to strengthen the monitoring and
enforcement capabilities of the environmental institutions and establish technical and financial mechanisms
for supporting pollution abatement investments in Greater Cairo, Alexandria, and the Suez Canal cities of
Suez and Ismailia.
C. Detailed Project Description
2.03    The project would consist of two main components: (a) a technical and institutional support
component; and (b) an investment component.
2.04    Technical and Institutional Support Component (Base cost = US$6.9 million).  This
component would provide technical assistance, studies, training, monitoring equipment and field vehicles to
support the following four sub-components. The GOF agreed to parallel cofinance this component with a
grant to the GOE of FIM 26.0 million (US$5.7 million equivalent). However, because this component is
directly related to the activities of the second component, agreement was reached during negotiations with
the GOF and the GOE, that the Bank would jointly monitor and supervise this component. A detailed
description of this component and the services required is included the Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
which was reviewed during negotiations.
(a) Strengthening the capacity of the EEAA branches and Governorates' Environment
Management Units (EMUs). This sub-component would strengthen the technical and
administrative capacity of the three regional branches of EEAA and the four EMUs in the



Pollution Abatement Project                                                             9
govemorates of Alexandria, Cairo, Qaliubiya and Suez to prepare, follow-up and enforce the
governorates' and the enterprises' pollution abatement action plans. Assistance would also be
provided to EEAA to revise the discharge and emission standards in terms of pollution loads.
(b) Development of Pollution Abatement Action Plans (PAAPs). This sub-component would
help finance the preparation of PAAPs for about 40 major polluters in Egypt. These
industrial polluters, of which a list is provided in the PIP, were identified on the basis of
environmental criteria developed during project preparation. Individual enterprises which
prepare PAAPs would be eligible to access the Pollution Abatement Fund (PAF) to be
established under the second component of this project (para. 2.05). During negotiations.
assurances were obtained from EEAA on a yearly submission to the Bank of the list of
enterprises which would prepare a PAAP.
(c) Support for Environmental Audit Programs. This sub-component would help conduct in-
plant environmental audits to identify pollution abatement opportunities in the industrial
zones of Greater Cairo, Alexandria and the Suez Canal cities of Ismailia and Suez, estimate
their costs and benefits, and prepare requests of financially viable enterprises to access the
PAF. This sub-component would include inter-alia: (i) services from environment experts
cleared by EEAA to review and/or conduct environmental audits at the request of the
individual enterprises; (ii) training services in environmental auditing and financing for
qualified personnel from sector ministries, industrial and banking organizations, enterprises,
and consulting firms; (iii) "on-the-job" training and training-for-trainers programs as well as
the development of appropriate guidelines for participating Egyptian banks on selecting and
evaluating environmental loans; (iv) technical assistance and training of plant managers for
protecting workers' health and safety; and (v) establishing a database on the relative cost
effectiveness of various types of prevention and abatement sub-projects.
(d) Promoting Awareness and Media Education Programs. This sub-component would
support the participation of the local communities and the media in the preparation,
monitoring and follow-up on the GIPAP and the PAAPs of the major industrial polluters
(para. b). It would strengthen the technical and administrative capacity of two local NGOs--
the Association for Enterprises for Environment Conservation and Friends of the
Environment Association in Alexandria--as well as of two professional associations--the
Society of Writers on Environment and Development and the Management Engineering
Society. These NGOs and professional associations were selected on the basis of criteria
developed by EEAA and reviewed by the Bank. The sub-component would support free
lance environmental writing in the local press on the opportunities offered to industry for
pollution prevention and control and would also increase knowledge on clean technologies
and pollution prevention among professionals in the environmental field. This sub-
component would include: (i) development of methodologies and training materials for
evaluating the results of industrial pollution control; (ii) organization of specialized seminars
and workshops to disseminate information on the PAAPs; and (iii) introduction of
information on new technologies and practices to professional associations and interest
groups who are involved in environmental activities in Egypt.
2.05    The Pollution Abatement Investment Component (Base cost = US$39.0 million). This
component would consist of a Pollution Abatement Fund estimated at US$35.0 million from the IBRD loan



10                                                                  Pollution Abatement Project
andi IDA credit as well as the enterprises' investment contribution of US$4.0 million equivalent. The
Pollution Abatement Fund (PAF) would be established to provide financing for environmental investment
sub-projects in about 25 public and private enterprises to bring their effluent discharges and/or air emissions
towards compliance with the Environment Protection Law in a cost effective manner. The PAF would
provide, on a first come-first serve basis, sub-loans and grants through selected local participating banks
(para. 2.17). The sub-projects would include waste minimization, pollution prevention, resource recovery,
adoption of clean technology, fuel substitution and end-of-pipe environmental control where no other
alternatives are available. However, the sub-project would be screened through the identification of the
largest contributors to environmental damage as defined in the NEAP and in the environmental strategy
priorities which are being prepared by EEAA. It would comprise: (a) a Credit Facility (para. 2.16) to
provide sub-loans with an expected maturity of 5-8 years with 1-2 year grace period, at market interest
rates; and (b) a Grant Facility (para. 2.18) to provide limited, one-time, transparent cost sharing of
polllution abatement investments. A flat rate grant of 20 percent of the investment cost will be provided to
sub-projects with a simple pay-back period of more than two years (para. 2.19).
2.06    A pipeline of sub-projects from 18 enterprises was audited, of which 11 priority enterprises (9 in
the public sector and 2 in the private sector) were selected from an industrial pollution point of view on the
basis of the sub-project eligibility criteria provided in para. 2.14. Eight of the PEs are on the list of the
worst industrial polluters [para. 2.04(b)]. Sub-projects in these enterprises would constitute the priority sub-
projects which could be financed by the PAF as soon as it becomes operational. The sub-projects cover the
chemical, metallurgical, textile, paper and metallic sectors for a total amount of US$31.5 million (exclusive
of laxes and duties). Annex 3 summarizes the priority investment sub-projects and their estimated costs.
Sub-projects covering the cement sector would not be considered since the GOE has already contracted
with local international expertise to reduce dust emissions.
2.07    The PAF is intended to support financially-viable private and public enterprises which would
bear the costs of clean-up. The PAF would not finance new industrial plants and/or capacity expansions.
This is because new plants should conform with the executive regulations and are not allowed a grace
period under the EPL.
2.08      In the case of enterprises that are currently making losses, the holding companies are
resiructuring them by selling off non-essential assets, cutting costs and carrying out financial restructuring.
If these enterprises cannot be returned to profitability, they will be closed. However, in a few cases, where
closure is not possible today because of political concerns over social disruption and because of legal
inhibitions on labor shedding, it may be necessary for the holding companies to cross-subsidize non-viable
enterprises, pending resolution of the political issues. Environmental investments in these non-viable
enterprises may be justified if the payback period in terns of environmental benefits (and, additionally, in
some cases financial benefits) is shorter than the expected enterprise life before potential close-down, or if
the holding company expects the enterprise life to be longer than the compliance grace period stipulated in
the Environment Protection Law. In this case, the holding company may be willing to bear the cost of
environmental investmnent which would be limited to those sections of the enterprises whose pollution is
affecting public health, and apply for financing from the PAF provided that such an arrangement is
acceptable to the participating bank. If, however, the holding company perceives a high probability of a
close-down before the end of the compliance period, it would rather delay environmental investments and
not apply for financing from the PAF. This minimizes the risk of PAF financing for investments in
enterprises likely to be closed down in the near future.



Pollution Abatement Project                                                                           11
D. Project Costs
2.09      The estimated project cost is LE 191.7 million, or US$48.7 million. The foreign exchange
component of LE 156.4 million, or US$48.7 million, represents 83.9 percent of total costs. These estimates
are based on December 1995 prices and exclude taxes and duties. Price and cost contingencies were
estimated on the first project component only since the second project component is a credit line with a
fixed dollar amount. A 10 percent contingency was estimated on the equipment cost of the first project
component and price contingencies have been based on a 7 percent increase annually for local costs and 2
percent annually for foreign costs. Detailed cost estimates of the first project component and the
incremental operating costs are provided in Annex 4. The estimated cost by component and sub-component
is summarized in Table 2.1.
Table 2.1: Project Costs
Perctage
Foreign    of Project
Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange  Baseline Cost
Project Components           LE (000,000)               uS$ (000,000)            °            o
A. Technical and
Institutional Support
1. EMU/EEAA                4.1       5.8      9.9     1.2       1.7      2.9       58.6         6.0
2. PAAP's                   0.7      5.7      6.4     0.2       1.7       1.9      89.4          4.0
3. Audit Support Program    0.3      3.4      3.7     0.1       1.0       1.1      90.9         2.3
4. Promoting Awareness      1.2      2.4      3.6     0.3       0.7       1.0      70.0         2.1
Sub-Total           6.3     17.3     23.6    1.8        5.1       6.9      73.9         14.2
B. Pollution Abatement     13.5    118.7    132.2    4.0       35.0      39.0      89.7         80.1
Investments
C. Incremental Operating
Cost
1. Staffing                3.8                3.8     1.2                1.2                    5.1
2. Operation                2.4               2.4     0.7                0.7                     1.4
Sub-Total           6.2               6.2     1.9                 1.9                    4.0
Total Baseline Costs    26.0    136.0    162.0    7.7       40.1     47.8       83.9        100.0
D. Contingencies
1. Physical                0.4       0.3      0.7    0.1       0.1       0.2       50.0         0.4
2. Price                    8.9     20.1     29.0    0.2        0.5      0.7       71.4          1.5
Total Project Cost     35.3    156.4    191.7    8.0       40.7      48.7      83.5        101.9



12                                                                 Pollution Abatement Project
E. Project Financing Plan
2.10    The overall financing of the proposed project is    Table Z J'ojtet Financig Pla
presented in Table 2.2. The Bank financing of the project       2Fsst Fiond
would consist of an IBRD  single currency loan of                                  Pereeub
US$20.0 million and an IDA credit of US$15.0 million    Source   Lotal  Foreign  Tottl   ofTot*l
equivalent. Egypt qualifies for the Bank single currency  liOE  4.0           4.0     8.2
loan.                                              EntoVp*ises  4.0    -      4.0     ,;
OF         -      5.7    5r7    11.7
IBRD       -     20.0   20,0    41.1
2.11    The  Technical and  Institutional  Support  IDA        -      15.0   15+0    30.8
Component (para. 2.04), estimated at US$7.8 million,
would be financed from the GOF grant of US$5.7 million        8.0    403    47       14,.
equivalent and the GOE contribution of US$2.1 million equivalent. The GOF grant agreement was signed
on November 13. 1996, and implementation of this component has already started. The PAF (para. 2.05)
estimated at US$35.0 million would consist of: A Credit Facility of US$28.0 million and a Grant Facility
of US$7.0 million. The enterprises' own contribution is estimated at US$4.0 million equivalent and the
incremental operating costs are estimated at US$1.9 million equivalent.
2.12    The IBRD loan and IDA credit would finance approximately 100 percent of the foreign exchange
cost of the sub-projects' investments. The enterprises would cover their own local costs including civil
works and these costs were estimated at US$4.0 million exclusive of taxes and duties (estimated at about
US$3.6 million equivalent). The GOF grant of US$5.7 million equivalent would cover the foreign exchange
cost of the Technical and Institutional Support Component as agreed in the GOF grant agreement. The GOE
would finance the local cost of the first component as well as 100 percent of the incremental operating
costs. Table 2.2 provides a detailed breakdown of the financing scheme.
2.13    In addition to the GOF grant, the European Investment Bank (EIB) has provided a loan to the
National Bank of Egypt (NBE, Annex 5) in an amount of ECU 15.0 million (US$16.5 million equivalent) to
finance additional sub-projects, with priority given to water pollution. The EIB loan for the environment
has a duration of 15 years, including a five-year grace period and a fixed interest rate of 2.43 percent per
annum after deduction of a 3.0 percent interest subsidy. The EIB loan agreement was signed with NBE on
November 14, 1996 with the Central Bank of Egypt acting as its guarantor.
F. Sub-Projects Eligibility Criteria
2.14    Enterprises seeking financing should meet the following eligibility criteria. First the enterprise:
(a) should be credit-worthy to the participating bank; (b) should be a source of potential health problems
and/or adverse environmental impact: priority will be given to (i) air emissions of heavy metals,
carcinogenic organic substances, dust and sulfur dioxide; and/or (ii) water discharges of heavy metals,
organic substances and acids; and (c) be ready to undertake or already have undertaken an environmental
audit. Second, to the extent practical, pollution control techniques in a given sub-project should be
replicable by other firms. Third, the enterprise should be committed to developing a pollution abatement
action plan. Fourth, plant managers should be willing to take the necessary measures for protecting
workers' health and safety, perform self monitoring, evaluate the technical performance of the investments
and the environmental benefits, and allow EEAA to publish the findings. Finally, for any single enterprise,
any sub-loan or a combination of sub-loans would not exceed US$5.0 million in order to allow financing of
several sub-projects in different sectors. However, for sources situated in densely populated areas and



Pollution Abatement Project                                                           13
which emit large amounts of toxic substances or heavy metals, the Project Steering Committee (para. 4.01)
could increase the sub-loans to an enterprise to US$8.0 million, after agreement with the Bank. An
economic analysis for each sub-project above US$5.0 million ceiling would be a pre-requisite for the Bank
approval. During negotiations. assurances were obtained from the GOE on the adoption of the above
eligibility criteria for sub-project appraisal.
G. Financing Arrangements
2.15    Borrower. The National Investment Bank (NIB) (paras. 3.03-3.10) would be the borrower of the
IBRD loan and the GOE the guarantor of this loan and the borrower of the IDA credit. NIB would enter
into a project agreement with the IDA. NIB, a state-owned non-commercial financial institution would be a
borrower of record. It would pass the IBRD loan to an Apex Bank (identified by the Government to be the
National Bank of Egypt (NBE)) at the same terms and conditions as provided in the IBRD loan. The IDA
credit would be on-lent through NIB to the Apex Bank at 0.875 percent (0.75 percent plus 0.125 percent for
a guarantee/commitment fee) for up to 35 year maturity. In June 30, 1997, the Government submitted a
letter confirming the NIB would be a borrower of record and would be ready to pass on the IBRD loan and
IDA credit to the Apex Bank. The Apex Bank would allocate 80 percent of total IBRD and IDA financing
for the Credit Facility and 20 percent for the Grant Facility.
2.16    Credit Facility. The Apex Bank would be responsible for on lending directly to enterprises and
would provide funds to other participating banks for on-lending to industrial enterprises at market rates.
Loan maturities are expected to be 5-8 years with a 1-2 year grace period. Participating banks would be
provided funds in US dollars through the Apex Bank at the IBRD standard interest rate for LIBOR-based
US dollar single currency loans plus, 0.25 percentage points per annum to cover its administrative banking
functions. The Apex Bank and other participating banks would on-lend to enterprises in US$ or LE, and the
participating bank would assume the foreign exchange risk if on-lending is in LE. The lending rates to
enterprises, whether US$ or LE denominated sub-loans, would be at the participating banks' own discretion.
The participating banks will bear the commercial risk.
2.17    The Apex Bank and other participating banks have been screened on: (a) the basis of their market
share of commercial lending; and (b) financial performance and solvency. The Apex Bank identified by the
GOE to be NBE, is a public and the largest commercial bank in Egypt in terms of total assets. It has the
largest branch network in the country reaching 316 branches covering an extensive geographic area. Four
local banks, in addition to NBE, have tentatively been selected to participate in this project. They consist of
the private joint-venture banks: Commercial International Bank (CIB), Misr International Bank (MIBank),
Egyptian American Bank (EAB), and Cairo Barclays Bank (CBB). All these banks have experience in
managing credit lines for bilateral and international donors and financial institutions such as USAID, EIB,
KfW and the European Union (EU). The CIB, MIB and EAB are the largest joint venture banks in Egypt,
and all rank among the most profitable and solvent. Annex 5 provides a description of NBE as well as a
brief financial performance of CBB, CIB, EAB and MIB. The CBB was also tentatively selected based on
its expressed interest in the project, involvement in the industrial sector, and financial performance and
solvency.
2.18    Grant Facility. A grant would be provided to industrial enterprises as part of a loan/grant
package (para. 2.05). The Apex Bank would be allowed a 0.5 percent processing charge of the grant
amount. Several options for grant eligibility have been considered and are summarized in Annex 6. Since
95 percent of the sub-projects in the pipeline have an expected simple payback of more than two years, the



14                                                               Pollution Abatement Project
PAF would finance only those investments with a payback period of more than two years and will provide
a flat grant of 20 percent. This grant portion corresponds to the pre- and post-investment costs, such as
engineering studies, commissioning, training and self monitoring.
2.19    A grant element, taken as a percentage of the investment cost, would be included as a temporary
feature of pollution abatement financing during the compliance period allowed in the Environment
Protection Law. The rationale for the grant element is the failure of the market to internalize the social cost
of pollution. Specifically, the grant would: (a) provide an incentive for pollution abatement during the
compliance period, in recognition of the substantial social costs of current environmental pollution; (b)
demonstrate least-cost opportunities for pollution abatement which would have external benefits in terms of
information and lessons for the industrial sector as a whole; and (c) reduce resistance to enforcement of the
EPL. The grant would be normally paid in two tranches; the first tranche would be paid upon signing the
sulb-loan with the participating bank and the second tranche would be released after the Project
Imiplementation Unit (para. 4.02) would certify that the equipment is installed. The grant would be
converted to a loan, and repaid to the grant facility, if the grant is used for purposes other than those
specified and decided upon in the sub-project agreement, in every case when the minimum figures of the
measurable environmental indicators are not met. Such sub-project agreements would be signed between
the PIU and the individual enterprise and attached as an annex to the sub-loan/grant agreement (para. 4.05).
m. THE BORROWER
A. The Banking Environment
3.01    The new banking legislation of 1992/1993 increased the power of the Central Bank of Egypt
(CBE) in regulating and supervising banks, and imposed more stringent financial and capital solvency on
banks operating in Egypt. Prudential regulations in line with international practices have been introduced,
such as those regarding risk-based capital adequacy ratios and loan classification. Additional funds have
been infused for recapitalization of the four public commercial banks to bring their capital adequacy ratio to
the minimum of 8 percent. Those banks that fail to meet the minimum requirement can face liquidation or
forced merger with other banks.
3.02    Bank legislation in Egypt discourages disclosure of data and information on the financial
conditions of banks, beyond what is included in published annual reports and accounts. This strongly limits
independent external audits of banks to assess financial performance and solvency. However, banks are
required to submit financial statistics to the CBE on a monthly basis, and CBE makes on-site verifications
on a regular basis to assess compliance with bank regulations.
B. The National Investment Bank (NIB)
3.03   Background. NIB was established as a state-owned financial institution in 1980 with the aim of
financing the state investment program. It is not a profit-seeking, deposit-taking bank nor registered at
the Central Bank of Egypt; it is not part of the banking sector. The NIB replaced the Government's
Inssurance and Deposits Investment Fund which used to provide finance for public investment at
concessional terms. While the law establishing the bank did not restrict its financing operations to public
investment, in practice it only financed public sector borrowing requirements. In addition to extending
local- and foreign-currency loans, the NIB also participates in the share capital of joint-venture



Pollution Abatement Project                                                           15
investment projects. This takes place within the framework of implementing the state's five-year
development plans.
3.04   The law establishing NIB stipulates that its Board of Directors (BOD) consists of the Minister of
Planning as chairman, a deputy chairman and managing director, and eight other members appointed
from different ministries and government agencies. The BOD is free to determine the bank's portfolio
management strategy, including creditor and debtor rates and equity finance, within the purpose of its
establishment. The balance-sheet size of NIB exceeds that of any other bank in Egypt, estimated at LE
102.9 billion (US$30.3 billion equivalent) as of June 30, 1996.
3.05   In fiscal 1990, investments of the public sector companies were excluded from the state budget
(to subject these companies to free market conditions and privatize them) and so NIB became not
mandated to finance their investment programs. However, implementation and follow-up of the
government sector (the administrative system, local governments and services authorities such as
universities) and public economic authorities (e.g., Suez Canal Authority) investment programs are still
carried out by NIB. Because of the privatization of indebted state-owned enterprises, NIB has increased
its loan-loss provisions substantially from LE 220.3 million in 1992 to LE 768 million in 1995 to reduce
business risk.
3.06 Fund Raising. NIB is assigned with the task of pooling resources from various (governmental)
domestic saving channels. These include resources from the Social Insurance and Pensions Authorities,
the Post Office Savings Fund, surplus of the public sector companies self-financing - i.e., the excess of
provisions over financial requirements, and proceeds of investment certificates. The investment
certificates are government securities bearing net interest comparable to that of longer-term time deposits
in local currency. The bank also collects the proceeds of investment in government bonds by profit-
making public sector companies; this constitutes the allocation of 5 percent from the profits realized by
public enterprises for the purchase of government bonds issued in local currency. In addition, the NIB
finances the 'foreign exchange' component of investment from governmental foreign aid and loans as
well as issuing development bonds in US dollars for public subscription. These bonds are long-term
government securities yielding a variable return equivalent to LIBOR. Table 3.1 shows the distribution
of bank resources and financing of public investment for 1993-95.



16                                                                             Pollution Abatement Project
Table 3.1: NIB Resources and Investment Financing - 1993-95
(LE Million)
193                   1994                  1995
Soulrces of Finanee                      Value        °        Value        %         Value        M
Domestic Saving Channels 1/              8747.7      91.5      12798.1     89.1      15928.8      77.5
NIB Surplus and Development Loans 2/      807.7       8.5      1567.2       10.9      4619.4      22.5
Total                                  9555.4      100.0     14365.3     100.0     20548.2      100.0
Financing of Public Investment
Investment Expenditure 31                8947.7      81 7      12763 6      85.3     14700.2      82.5
Capilal Transfers 4/                     1634.3      14.9      1856.8       12.4      2818.6      15.8
Soft Loans 5/                             374.6       3.4       337.8       2.3        291.0       1.6
Total                                 10956.6     100.0      14958.2     100.0     17809.8     100.0
1/ Includes: Resources from Social Insurance and Pensions Authorities, Post Office Savings Fund, surplus of public
enterprises' self-finance, and proceeds of investment certificates.
2/ Includes: Government bonds (5% of public enterprises' profit) and development bonds in US dollar.
3/ Includes investments of: central government, local governments, public economic authorities, and state-owned companies.
4/Includes financing liquidity deficit, previous years dues, advance payments and contributions in the share capital of
joint-verture projects.
5/ Soft loans for low income housing.
Creiditor and Debtor Rates. From fiscal 1992, the creditor and debtor NIB rates were brought more in
line with those prevailing in the banking sector under free market conditions. The NIB borrowing and
general lending rates are currently in the 11-14 percent range. The NIB also lends at a special rate of 6
percent (up from 4 percent before 1992) for investments in land reclamation and low-cost housing with
the government bearing the interest differential between the general and special rates. For loans in US
dollar, on the other hand, NIB charges LIBOR plus 1.5-2 percent.
Financial Performance. Table 3.2 shows indicators on NIB's performance for the period 1993-95. The
bank's proportionate debt outstanding relative to equity (financial leverage) is significantly high, risking
wide fluctuations in income. However, gross yield on assets was increasing, indicating prudence in asset
utilization and a perforning loan portfolio at large. Besides, while reporting greater loss provisions, the
ratio of NIB's annual provisions to income was declining. This reflects the bank's improving ability to
absorb future losses on one hand and demonstrates improved performance over previous years on the
otheir. The ratios are suggestive of sound bank management, given the nature of the NIB's operations.
Table 3.2: NIB Financial Performance - 1993-95
(LE Million)
_________ _________ _________ __________  1  1993   [  1994       1995
Total Assets                                                   85313.5         70404.6        87397.2
Total Equity                                                    100.0           100.0          100.0
Total Operating Income                                         5660.0          7141.2         8943.3
Interest Income                                                5639.4          7044.4         8916.8
Interest Expense                                               4976.3          6391.7         8165.2
Provisions                                                      673 0           740 3          768.0
Gross Yield on Assets (Total Operating Income)                  6.6%            10.1%          10.2%
Provisions Ratio (Annual Provisions/Total Operating Income)     11.9%           10.4%          8.6%



Pollution Abatement Project                                                            17
1V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Implementation
4.01    Overall coordination of the project would be entrusted to a Steering Committee (SC) consisting
of EEAA chief executive officer (CEO), senior officials of sector ministries, and representatives of the
participating NGOs and banks, the Federation of Egyptian Industries and the Egyptian Businessmen
Association. Private sector participation in the SC would ensure that the PAF is accessible to private and
public industries on an equal basis. This Committee would provide overall policy guidance, review work
programs, resolve any inter-ministerial implementation issues, recommend to the participating banks any
sub-project above US$2.0 million and review semi-annually the status of sub-project selection and
implementation. During appraisal. the GOE established the steering committee and nominated its members
by ministerial decree.
4.02     A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) with qualified staff, was also established by the same
ministerial decree as the SC. It manages the first component of the project (para. 2.04) and is the main
interface with NIB, the Apex and other participating banks. The PIU would consist of a full time project
manager, and four specialists in procurement, finance, industrial pollution and training. In relation to the
second component of the project (para. 2.05), the PIU's responsibilities would include: (a) technically
evaluating and monitoring implementation of the financed sub-projects; (b) approving and recommending
to the participating banks any sub-project below US$2.0 million and would review/recommend to the SC
for approval any sub-project above US$2.0 million; (c) ensuring that all procurement is in compliance with
Bank guidelines; and (d) preparing progress and implementation completion reports.  A Finnish
management and technical assistance firm is providing technical support to the PIU and the participating
banks for screening and evaluating the environmental investment proposals. Before negotiations. the GOE
designated the project manager.
4.03    The National Investment Bank of Egypt (NIB) would sign with the GOE prior to loan
effectiveness financing agreements for passing on the proceeds of the IDA credit which in tum would be
passed on to Apex Bank. The Apex Bank would establish the Grant and the Credit Facilities and manage
their fund flows. It could negotiate and sign subsidiary loan agreements with the participating banks.
During negotiations. a draft subsidiarv loan agreement between the NIB and Apex Bank was submitted to
the Bank for review. The execution of the subsidiary loan and credit agreements with the Apex Bank
would be a condition of effectiveness.
4.04    The Apex Bank and other participating banks would pre-screen environmental sub-projects
proposed for funding by the proposed project, assist firms in developing sub-projects in accordance with the
agreed eligibility criteria (para. 2.14), determine the financial viability of the enterprises, negotiate the sub-
loan agreement with the firms, take the commercial risk for loans to the firms, promote the program among
its clients, and report on a regular basis to the PIU on its project-related activities. An operational manual
was prepared by the PIU and describes the identification, evaluation, and approval process of the
environmental investments, for which a flow diagram is outlined in Annex 7.
4.05    The participating enterprises would sign a sub-loan/grant agreement and a sub-project agreement.
The sub-project agreement will be signed with EEAA and would detail the enterprise's commitment to: (a)
the sub-project objectives; (b) the preparation of a PAAP; (c) the procurement, installation and operation of
the equipment; (d) self-monitoring; (e) the measures to be taken to protect workers' health and safety; and



18                                                               Pollution Abatement Project
(f) notification to EEAA of the results of pollution reduction activity. The PIP provides a sample of a sub-
lproject agreement.
B. Procurement
4.06    Goods and Services. All procurement of goods and services for the provision of pollution
control equipment would be financed under the proposed Bank loan and IDA credit in accordance with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Domestic preference, for local manufacturers, in accordance with the
Guidelines would apply. The Bank would provide Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs) which were
tg_reed upon during negotiations.
4.07    The procurement of field vehicles, computer, office and monitoring equipment, materials and
supplies for the technical and institutional support component would be procured in accordance with the
requirements of the GOF grant agreement.
4.08    Private and public sector enterprises would be responsible for undertaking their own
procurement, with the assistance of the PIU, using the Bank's Development Finance Institution (DFI)
procedures. During pre-appraisal, the Bank conducted a procurement assessment to determine the
procurement procedures used by the private and public sector firms and found them acceptable to the Bank.
Individual contracts exceeding US$5.0 million for the private and public sector enterprises would be
procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB). All contracts by the public sector enterprises
above US$200,000 and less than US$5.0 million will be carried either under ICB or Limited International
Bidding (LIB) depending whether the type of equipment justify direct invitation to a limited number of
rnanufacturers. Contracts below US$200,000 by public sector companies would be awarded on the basis of
International Shopping (IS). National Shopping (NS) would be used for small contracts below US$ 100,000.
All contracts of US$5.0 million or below for private sector companies will be carried out using applicable
commercial practices. Table 4.1 shows the proposed procurement arrangements.
4.09    All procurement which follows Egyptian Procurement Law No. 9 will have to exclude the
tnacceptable features of Govemment procurement procedures stated in para. a.3 (A) (ii) to (xi) in the
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) of April 5, 1994. In a circular to all implementing
a[gencies, the Government has authorized deviations from Law No. 9 which are not compatible with the
Bank's procurement guidelines.
4.10    Since the industrial pollution control equipment would be disbursed against a line of credit, the
detailed procurement packages are not yet well defined. However, based on the priority industrial
enterprises in Annex 2, which consists of 12 sub-projects; one sub-project include a contract for purchasing
a turn key lead smelter plant with a value above US$5.0 million; these would be purchased through ICB.
Ten sub-projects include contracts with values between US$5.0 million and US$200,000 for acquiring
specialized equipment such as coke oven doors, fabric filters, scrubbers and evaporation and acid
regeneration units for existing plants. These could be purchased through Limited International Bidding
(LIB). One sub-project includes a contract of small monetary values below US$200,000 to purchase
equipment such as deliming carbon dioxide. These would be purchased through quotation with three
suppliers. It is expected that other sub-projects would have similar type of procurement. The scope of all
tlhese contracts will be further refined after detailed engineering is completed.



Pollution Abatement Project                                                                      19
4.11     Consultants. Consultants for various assignments (i.e., engineering design, monitoring, training,
etc.) to be undertaken and financed from the IDA funds, would be recruited in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines of January 1997. Their terrns of reference will be subject to prior review by the Bank.
Technical assistance and training to be financed from the GOF grant, is consolidated in one package for
which TORs, included in the PIP, were prepared and reviewed during appraisal by the Bank.
4.12     All contracts for goods including technical and engineering services above a threshold of US$5.0
million as well as appointments of consulting firms above US$100,000 and individual consultants above
US$50,000 will be subject to prior Bank review. These will constitute more than 50 percent of Bank-
financed goods and services. This is acceptable for a line of credit type of operation. All other contracts
would be subject of a post review by the Bank. The PIU would maintain all relevant documents in its
record for this purpose.
Table 4.1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method 7
Project Element                         ICB/LBbI      Other         NBF'         TOTAL
(1) Sub-Loans/Sub-Grants                   32.4          2.6           4.0          39.0
(32.4)        (2.6)                      (35.0)
(2) Technical and Institutional Support
- Vehicles, office, computer and                                   0.5          0.5
monitoring equipment
- Technical assistance and training                                7.3          7.3
(3) Incremental Operating Costs                                        1.9           1.9
32.4          2.6          13.7          48.7
TOTAL                      (32.4)        (2.6)                       (35.0)
a/ Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan and IDA Credit. Amounts
include contingencies.
b/ Industrial pollution control components would be disbursed against a credit line. The procedures for
procurement would be the same as the those for Bank-financed Development Finance Institution (DFI)
procedures. This includes applicable commercial practices procurement by the private sector. A limited
number of equipment would be purchased through Limited Intemational Bidding (LIB) (para. 4.08).
Individual contacts in excess of an estimated value of US$5.0 million would be procured under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB).
c/ Consultant services (recruited in accordance with Bank's guidelines) and training (US$0.2 million); IS
(US$1.6 million) and LS (US$0.8 million).
df NBF denotes non-Bank financing. This includes items to be financed from the GOF grant of US$5.7 million
equivalent.



20                                                              Pollution Abatement Project
C. Disbursement
4.13    The proposed project would be implemented over five years starting on April 1st, 1998 and is
expected to be completed by March 31, 2003 and closed by September 30, 2003. It is anticipated that the
Bank loan and IDA credit will be fully disbursed by that date. Even with the EIB loan, because the size of
the pollution abatement investments would still be small relative to the demand of funds, the availability of
the additional funds will not slow down bank disbursements and should not require an extension of the
closiing date. The estimated schedule of disbursement is summarized in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: Disbursement Plan
Amount                  prcenap
Category       (US$ Million}       Expenditures to be fina-nced
Sub-loans/sub-grants    35.0      100 percent of amounts disbursed by the
Apex and participating banks
4.14    The proposed Bank loan and credit would cover 100 percent of amounts paid by NBE and the
participating banks under sub-loans and sub-grants, which correspond to 90 percent of the sub-project costs.
4.15    To facilitate prompt payments to suppliers and consultants, the Bank would advance funds to
establish and replenish two Special Accounts (SA) in US dollars for NIB. The two SA's would be opened at
the NBE, for which a letter of comfort is available at the Bank: (a) one SA for the IBRD loan with an initial
deposit of US$2.0 million; and (b) one SA for the IDA credit with an initial deposit of US$1.5 million.
These funds would be used to cover the Bank's shares of eligible expenditures in both local and foreign
currencies over a period of four months. Each special account would be replenished monthly upon receipt
of reimbursement applications with appropriate supporting documentation or when approximately half of
the rmaximum amount allowed has been spent whichever comes first. Monthly bank statements from the
two SAs would accompany replenishment requests. The minimum application size for direct payments and
applications for Special Commitment will be 20 percent of the authorized allocations of the Special
Accounts.
4.16    The disbursement schedule is summarized in Table 4.3. Withdrawal for the pollution abatement
investment component would be presented to the Bank on the basis of SOEs except on account of
expenditures subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement. Relevant documentation in support of
SOEs would be made available to Bank supervision missions and to independent auditors by NIB and the
Apex Bank.
Table 4.3: Estimated Loan and Credit Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Bank Group Fiscal Year
__FY98 _99 ___00  5 FYQ1    FY02    FY03
IBRD/IDA Annual          0.2       1.6      5.0      16.5      6.0      5.7
IBRD/IDA Cumulative      0.2       1.8      6.8      23.3     29.3     35.0



Pollution Abatement Project                                                            21
D. Accounts and Audits
4.17    The PIU, NIB, and the Apex Bank would provide Bank staff with access to all financial reports
necessary to assess implementation progress, monitor compliance with loan and credit conditions and
ensure proper use of Bank loan proceeds and IDA credit. The SAs would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the GOE and the Bank. The project accounts would be consolidated for
auditing by the independent auditors and the audited accounts, together with the auditor's opinion would be
submitted to the Bank within six months following the close of the Borrower's fiscal year, i.e., June 30 of
each year. All audits are to be carried out in accordance with international standards and terms of reference
for private firms would be subjected to the Bank's prior review. Audit reports would include separate
opinions on the functioning of the SAs and the use of the SOEs.
E. Project Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.18    The PIU and NIB would collectively submit a progress report annually to the Bank and an
implementation report within six months following the proposed project closing date. The annual progress
report would cover: (a) progress towards compliance with monitoring input and output indicators for the
institutional and environmental aspects as shown in Annex 8; (b) sub-projects screened and financed in
accordance with the eligibility criteria set forth in para. 2.12; (c) status of the procurement of equipment and
services, including revised timing of procurement actions such as bidding and contract awards; and (d)
status of expenditures from the credit and grant facilities.
4.19    Estimating the impact of the proposed project during implementation would be based on the
compilation by the PIU of two sets of data: (a) pollution discharge data (air emission and water discharge)
from the industrial enterprises, which would be the responsibility of the individual firms; and (b) ambient
data on air/water quality in the vicinity of the industrial facilities. The latter would be EEAA's
responsibility. The details of the audit as defined in the PIP, would be performed in such a way that the
base line and resulting environmental impacts from different mitigation options, to the extent possible,
could be evaluated and compared with or incorporated in the proposed project's environmental indicators.
Annex 8 provides a sample of the environmental indicators which were developed from the environmental
audits of the pipeline of sub-projects.
4.20    Project monitoring would be conducted during the joint Bank, EIB and GOF supervision
missions on the basis of the performance indicators in Annex 8 and the implementation schedule in Annex
9. During the first year of implementation, the Bank plans to send three supervision missions for a total of
27 staff weeks; subsequently two missions for a total of 18 staff weeks per annum would suffice to
supervise all activities. During the first three years, supervision missions will be jointly undertaken by GOF
and Bank staff, international consultants to cover specialized industrial skills, the professional staff of the
Resident Mission, and local consultants. After the third year, it is anticipated that project supervision will
be primarily undertaken by the professional staff of the Resident Mission and by local consultants who
would have received on the job training during previous supervision missions. In addition to the elements
of the reporting requirements in para. 4.19 above, key areas of concern would include: (a) compliance by
the participating banks with the eligibility criteria in para. 2.14 above; (b) review of the ambient and
emission data; (c) installation and operation of environmental control equipment resulting from the project;
(d) progress in developing effective evaluation activities by the NGOs; (e) progress in preparation of the
GIPAP and follow-up of the PAAPs by the govemorate and EEAA; (f) number of subsidiary loan



.22                                                              Pollution Abatement Project
agreements signed between NBE and other participating banks; and (g) replication of the current sub-
projects in the pipeline to other enterprises.
4.21    A mid-term review would be conducted jointly by the Bank, the GOF and the PIU by October
:2000. It would include inter alia: (a) performance of the Borrower, the executing agencies and participating
banks in achieving project objectives; (b) progress toward fulfilling key performance indicators; (c) sub-
projects completed or under implementation; (d) effectiveness of training and technical assistance provided
to the proposed project beneficiaries; (e) economic justification of the on-lending program; and (f) progress
made by the Borrower towards establishing an incentive framework for environment protection (para. 1.15).
Agreement would reached with the GOE on the mid-term review process to be scheduled by October 2000.
F. Environmental Impact
4.22    The project falls within category "B" in accordance with the provisions of O.D. 4.01,
"'Environmental Assessment". The project would result in reductions in air, water, solid, and hazardous
pollutants by supporting environmental investments at industrial plants. This in turn would lead to
improvements in the health and safety of the workers in the industrial plants and the general population near
those plants. To prevent possible adverse environmental impacts, the project would require the preparation
of environmental audits for all investment-financed operations (para. 2.14). The audits would be consistent
with the guidelines recently issued by the Bank in the Environmental Assessment Source Book Update No
II, "Environmental Auditing". The Bank guidelines on environmental auditing will be translated into
Arabic and shared with EEAA, the enterprises and the participating banks. Environmental audits would be
reviewed by EEAA and the Bank supervision missions. In addition, environmental guidelines and
procedures for implementation of the provisions of the Environment Protection Law were reviewed by the
Bank during pre-appraisal. It was found that enterprises are expected to conform to the national emissions
standards and discharges which are expressed in the form of concentrations. Since it is possible to meet
these standards by dilution, without any real reduction in pollution, the proposed project would provide in
its first sub-component (para. 2.04), technical assistance to enable EEAA to shift to discharges and emission
standards on a load basis. This would further contribute to promoting pollution prevention and waste
minimization. Furthermore, the sub-project agreement which would be signed with EEAA by the enterprise
(para. 4.05) will ensure that among other factors, industrial waste would be minimized.
G. Sustainability
4.23    The project would strengthen the monitoring and enforcement capabilities of environmental
institutions and establish the technical and financial mechanisms for pollution abatement investments. A
nexus of factors is expected to yield sustained (and expanded) investment in pollution abatement technology
after project completion. These factors include a credible enforcement threat; increased knowledge
regarding the efficacy of pollution abatement investment; and an examination of the overall pricing and tax
regime from an environmental point of view. The project directly addresses the first two factors. The
credibility of the enforcement threat is enhanced through the Technical and Institutional Support component
of the project and the Government commitment to enforce the law and to request that govemorates and
enterprises prepare their own pollution abatement action plans. Since the Egyptian firms are not familiar
wtith pollution abatement investments, firms making the first investments of this type will incur significant
information costs. Initially, the grant and technical assistance features of this project will provide the
inducement for firms to incur these transaction costs and undertake this new type of investment activity.
After a core of such investments are made, Egyptian firms will be more familiar with such investments.



Pollution Abatement Project                                                            23
Furthermore, the funding mechanism, if successfully demonstrated, would stimulate lending by the banking
sector given that the proposed project would provide training to bank officers on how to evaluate potential
environmental investments and to recognize and market such opportunities to their customers. The lower
information cost will mitigate the need for technical assistance and grant inducements.
4.24    The third factor mentioned above involves several mechanisms (in lieu of a grant component)
that would increase the financial rate of return for firms seeking to make pollution abatement investments.
The first mechanism is the possible introduction of environmental taxes on polluting energy fuels,
agrochemicals, hazardous substances and polluting discharges which are being considered in the context of
replacing tariff revenue that will be lost with the expected free trade agreement with the European Union.
The second mechanism is further progress on cost recovery so as to provide incentives for efficient resource
allocation. While cost recovery is still incomplete, Egypt has made progress in recent years. Electricity and
domestic petroleum are now priced at 80 percent and 90 percent of their international level, respectively
(para. 1.03). Recent Government interest in attracting private investors in infrastructure projects (i.e.,
Build-Operate-and-Transfer in power generation) will require more attention to cost recovery issues. There
are of course, risks, that this sustainable environment would not materialize. However, in its discussions
with the Bank, indications are good that the Government is serious about enforcement. In addition, other
market incentives in the form of cost recovery, increased access of pollution control technology, and the
introduction of environmental taxes could create a sustained demand on the parts of firms for investment in
pollution abatement technology.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.01    The major benefit of the Technical and Institutional Support Component is the increased capacity
for monitoring and enforcement. This added capacity will yield significant benefits in terms of contributing
substantially to lowering the current social costs of environmental degradation and reducing the
inefficiencies of the previously fragmented system of enforcement in the country. This component would
strengthen the regional and local capabilities in monitoring and enforcement of appropriate policies and
regulations. It would also benefit the local NGOs, their constituencies and the media and increase their
participation in monitoring the actions of the Govemorate and enterprises for pollution control. This would
generate public support for environmental efforts and create a public expectation for enterprises to adopt
good environmental and safety practices. The technical assistance to the plants would help them evaluate
low cost/no cost and pollution prevention options, as well as more expensive environmental investments.
These options would not only reduce emissions but may also improve plant efficiency and product quality,
and lower costs for energy and raw materials.
5.02    Under its second component, the project would provide financial resources to individual
enterprises for environmental investments. It would contribute to a reduction of air and water pollutants
and wastes, and would improve the health conditions and safety of the workers, and the population living
near these industries. These investments are expected to be used as examples throughout Egyptian industry
and thus the project's impact would extend beyond the specific investmnents being funded. This project
component would also enhance environmental quality by introducing innovative and replicable market
mechanisms for environmental management that simultaneously develop collaboration between the
financial sector, the regulatory/enforcement institutions and industrial enterprises. The main beneficiaries



24                                                                    Pollution Abatement Project
of the project are the 220 environment staff of the ministries and the governorates, 200 trainees from the
financial and industrial sectors, the local NGOs and professional associations, the enterprises' workers, and
the general population exposed to pollution from the enterprises.
B. Economic Analysis
5.03     A complete economic and financial analysis of the proposed project cannot be undertaken as the
project will finance technical assistance and training and an undetermined number of sub-projects on a first
come-first serve basis subject to environmental criteria. The benefits of the elements of the technical and
institutional support component cannot been quantified. However, this component represents a key element
in the sustainability of overall project benefits. The second project component is a pollution abatement fund
consisting of a line of credit and limited matching grants for financing pollution abatement sub-projects.
Sub-project justification is based on pollution reduction in industrial enterprises in order to move towards
compliance with the Environmental Law for the protection of human health and/or natural resources, rather
than on purely economic benefit. Most environmental benefits, and particularly those related to human
health impacts, cannot be subjected to a benefit-cost analysis as functional relationships between health
impacts and reductions in various pollutants are not yet adequately determined.  However, functional
relationships have been relatively well established for particulates and lead. A benefit-cost analysis,
described in Annex 10, was therefore undertaken for the sub-projects in the pre-screened pipeline which
would reduce particulates and lead and could be financed under the PAF:
Sub-project 1:    Installation of a new lead smelting process to reduce lead emissions in a lead
smelter in Helwan;
Sub-project 2:    Installation of a particulate arrestment system in the steel production unit in
a metallurgical plant in Alexandria; and
Sub-project 3:    Conversion from fuel oil (mazout) to natural gas in a glass and crystal
factory in Shubra El Kheima.
5.04     Using a dose-response model, which provides a relationship between health impacts and changes
in concentration levels of particulates (PMI0) and lead, the benefit-cost analysis provided the following
estimates in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1: Sub-Project Benefits and Costs
(US$ Million - Base Year, FY97)
Net Present Value of
Benefits and Costs 2/       Source ofDifference
Cost 1/    Economic/   Fiancial            Taxes        H.,_,
Sub-project 1:       8.7           7.1           -2.3           0.6           8.8
Sub-project 2:       1.2           4.0           -1.7           0.1           5.6
Sub-project 3:       1.75/         0.05          -1.0          0.15           0.9
1/ Excluding taxes.
2/ The applied discount rate is 12 percent.
31 The corresponding ERRs are 30 percent, 75 percent and 13 percent for the three sub-projects.



Pollution Abatement Project                                                              25
5.05    The estimates are conservative insofar as valuation and/or avoided health impacts in the analysis
are at the lower end of commonly applied ranges, and the monetary benefit of reductions of other pollutants
in sub-projects 2 and 3 are not included because the functional relationship between the health impacts and
those pollutants are not yet adequately determined.
C. Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
5.06    Cost-effectiveness would be determined in the environmental audit to assess the viability of
investment sub-projects for which the environmental benefits cannot be quantified. However, pollution
reductions are nevertheless required to comply with the Environment Protection Law. The approach to cost
effectiveness is to emphasize pollution control and prevention through investment in process changes. Such
investments often have significant financial benefits in terms of savings on or elimination of the use of
chemicals or other toxic substances, reductions in energy and water consumption and/or other production
inputs. End-of-pipe investments, with no or low financial benefits, will be financed only if process change
options are unavailable to move towards compliance with the Environmental Law.
D. Financial Analysis
5.07    A financial evaluation of identified first tranche sub-projects could be made on the basis of the
environmental audits completed during project preparation. Of the environmental audits in 18 enterprises,
identified investments in 11 enterprises are deemed a first priority from an environmental perspective.
Investments totaling US$31.5 million (excluding taxes and duties of US$2.5 million) have been proposed
for the 11 enterprises.
5.08    Investments are classified as: (1) process changes; and (2) end-of-pipe. The pay-back periods
and financial IRR are summarized in Table 5.2 for the investments in the 11 enterprises.
Table 5.2: Estimated Pay-back Period and Financial Return
Investment          No. of       Investments       Pay-back     Finan*ial IRR 2/
Classification     Investments   (US$ Million) 1!    Period (yrs)     (%e)
Process changes             2             0.20             2.0             49
2             1.75             4.0             21
1             0.90            5.0              15
3             4.45             6.0             I 1
2             4.55             7.0              7
1             9.30            7.5               6
3             6.70            >=10             <=O
Subtotal                   14            27.85
End-of-pipe                 4             6.20             n.a.            n.a.
TOTAL               18             34.05
1/ Includes taxes and duties of US$2.5 million.
2/ Useful life of investment is 10 years; na: the investment yields insignificant financial benefits.



26                                                               Pollution Abatement Project
E. Project Risks
5.09    There are four major risks to project implementation:
(a) Institutional. The key risk is that if enforcement is not sufficiently strengthened, the
industries may not have enough incentive to make use of the PAF or to undertake abatement
measures. This risk would be reduced under the project by: (i) strengthening the enforcement
entities in the priority geographic areas; (ii) providing financial incentives to industrial plants;
and (iii) mobilizing public opinion through NGOs and the media.
(b) Financial. There is an associated risk that the on-lending terms and conditions could become
uncompetitive because of the availability of grants and soft loans from bilateral donors. This
risk is inevitable in Egypt where nine donors are engaged in industrial pollution studies and
activities. However, this risk would be minimized under the project by: (i) undertaking
periodic consultations with the bilateral donors on the on-lending conditions and grant
arrangements; (ii) reviewing periodically the maximum percentage of the grant component;
and (iii) effectively delivering technical assistance with project funds.
(c) Managerial. The institutional component focuses on enforcement and financial institutions
which have limited experience and in house capabilities for environmental management and
environmental lending. To minimize this risk, the institutional component is mostly directed
to building up, through technical assistance and training, the capabilities of these
organizations in enforcement and in evaluating potential environmental investments.
(d) Implementation Capacity. Egypt has a track record of inadequate implementation
performance. This risk would be minimized under the project by: (i) completing the
procurement arrangements of the pipeline of sub-projects so that they could be financed as
soon as the PAF is made operational; (ii) providing training in procurement and disbursement
to the executing agencies; and (iii) delegating the procurement review and disbursement
monitoring responsibilities to the Resident Mission in Egypt.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01    During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained from the Government:
(a) EEAA would submit annually the implementation schedule for the preparation of the
enterprises' PAAPs for the 40 worst polluters [para. 2.04 (b)];
(b) EEAA would adopt the conditions and eligibility criteria for sub-project appraisal (para.
2.14);
(c) The NIB would on-lend proceeds of the IBRD loan and IDA credit to an Apex Bank on terms
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.03);
(d) The Apex Bank would agree to provide non-refundable grants from the grant facility to
eligible private and public industrial enterprises (para. 2.18);



Pollution Abatement Project                                                            27
(e) The PIU would agree on the performance indicators and would agree to submit every two
years a report on the progress towards fulfilling these indicators (para. 4.20); and
(f) The PIU and the Bank would undertake a mid-term review of the project by October 2000
(para. 4.2 1).
6.02    The conditions for loan and credit effectiveness would be: (a) the execution of the financing
agreements between the NIB and GOE; and (b) the signing of a subsidiary loan and credit agreements
between NIB and the Apex Bank (para. 4.03).
6.03    The condition for loan and credit cross effectiveness would be the effectiveness of the IBRD loan
and IDA Credit agreements and the NIB project agreement.
6.04    Recommendation. Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$20.0 million for a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace and the standard variable interest
rate and an IDA credit of SDR 10.9 million (US$15.0 million equivalent) for a term of 35 years including
10 years of grace at standard IDA terms.






Annex I
Page 1 of 6
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
OVERVIEW OF THE INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION IN CAIRO AND ALEXANDRIA
A.    Background
1.    The number of industries in Egypt with more than 10 employees totals about 22,0001, almost 1,000
of which are public sector enterprises. The number of employees in the industrial sectors has been
estimated to be about 2 million, half of which are employed by the private sector, mainly consisting of small
and medium scale industries. Industrial share of GDP was 30 percent in 1996, while the manufacturing
share was 23 percent. Industrial public enterprises (PEs) account for nearly 60 percent of manufacturing
output.
2.    The major polluters are predominantly the metallurgical, chemical, refinery, cement, and pulp and
paper industrial sectors. Food, engineering, textile, and tannery industries, representing both larger public
enterprises and medium and small scale private industries, also add to the pollution load in Egypt.
3.    Many of the PEs started their production in the 1960s and have not modernized their equipment
since. Many of them are using outdated processes and are not controlling their emissions. The private
owned enterprises expanded mainly since the 1980s and are comparably modern and less polluting. It
should be noted that there exist small and medium-scale private industries, especially in the tannery and
metallurgical sectors, which are also heavy polluters.
4.     The two largest cities of Greater Cairo and Metropolitan Alexandria which account for over 80
percent of the industrial activity in Egypt are the most polluted in Egypt. The public sector accounts for 55
percent of enterprises, 37 percent from the private sector and 8 percent are joint ventures with private
capital.
5.    Greater Cairo with a total population of 15 million and 126 PEs, includes the governorates of Cairo,
Guizeh and part of Qaliubiya. The areas with the severest pollution are: (a) the Helwan-Tebbin industrial
zone south of Cairo, (b) the Shubra El Kheima, Mostorod and Abuzaabal zone north of Cairo, and (c)
Imbaba east of Cairo. The Helwan-Tebbin zone includes 90 large and small industries of which the 18
major polluters are the cement, iron and steel, coke, lead smelter, refractory, automotive and military
factories. Shubra El Kheima-Mostorod includes 40 heavy industries such as steel plants, paper
production, a refinery, and a fertilizer plant as well as 1,300 medium and small scale industrial enterprises
such as metal foundry, food processing, detergent and soap manufacturing, textile, and glass industries.
Imbaba is the site of the largest concentration of industry on the West Bank of the Nile. Major industrial
operations include the shipyard, food, textile metal products and paint industries. Approximately 800
smaller scale, privately owned, industries are located throughout Cairo. These include 52 tanneries
discharging toxic substances such as chromium, 12 lead smelters as well as many other metal smelters.
' General Organization for Industrialization (1994).



Annex I
P'age 2 of 6
6.     Alexandria with a population of 4.0 million accounts over 40 percent of the industrial activity in
Egypt. Its most polluted areas are the Max-El Dikheila industrial zone in the west and Abu Qir east of the
ciity center. The Max-El Dikheila industrial zone includes heavy industries of iron and steel, cement
refinery and chemicals as well the tanneries. Abu Qir includes large fertilizer plants and pulp and paper
industry of Egypt.
7     A comparative risk analysis of environmental problems affecting Greater Cairo was carried out by
USAID in 1993-94. The health risk ranking displayed in Table 1, indicated that air pollution caused by
particulate matter (PM) and lead as well as drinking water contamination from chemicals are the causes of
the most severe health effects. Since the industrial activities is a major source of pollution, an overview of
air and water pollution in Cairo and Alexandria is provided below.
B.    Water Pollution from Industry
8.    Data on water discharges from industry in Egypt is incomplete which makes it difficult to draw an
accurate picture of the pollution situation. Hence, pollution data provided are also very uncertain since no
regular emission monitoring is performed by industries or authorities.
9.     The total waste water discharge from 314 major public industries in Egypt is of the order of 335
2
million m3 per year . Of this amount the discharges in Greater Cairo account for roughly 130 Mm3/y and
Alexandria for 90 Mm3/y. Of those flows the ten largest dischargers in each city are discharging in total
100 and 65 Mm3/y. The major water discharging industries in Greater Cairo are: (a) metallurgical
industries, such as Delta Steel, Egyptian Iron and Steel, and National Metals with 9, 11, and 24 Mm3/y of
discharge; (b) sugar industries such as Egyptian Sugar and Integrated Industries with two plants with 13 and
18 Mm3/y respectively; and (c) El Nasr Coke and Chemicals with 6 Mm3/y of discharge. In Alexandria the
Rakta pulp and paper plant with a discharge of 22 Mm3/y is heavily polluting the Abu Kir bay with black
liquor. The National Paper company with a discharge of 7 Mm3/y is another major source. Other large
sources in Alexandria are industries in the chemical, metallurgical, and textile sectors.
10.   The industries with large wastewater discharges normally are also large polluters. But in addition
industries with more limited water discharges, such as starch producers and tanneries, could be major
sources for releases of organic substances or heavy metals.
I1.   Water quality data show that the water quality of the Nile has deteriorated since the late 1970s. The
canal systems supplied by water from the Nile and delta lakes such as Lake Maryut and Lake Manzala
contain high concentrations of organic matter and/or heavy metals. It is believed that heavy pollution loads
from industries have contributed significantly to the deterioration.
12.   Drinking water for the over 4 million people in the Alexandria metropolitan area is provided from
the Mahmoudia Canal, Nile Rosetta Branch, and Noubaria Canal. Located downstream of the country's
water system, with the full load of upstream pollution, the drinking water quality has deteriorated. In the
areas served by the Noubaria Canal, the total dissolved solids (TDS) are about three times higher than the
WHO guideline value.
2 Environmental Map of Egypt EEAA (1994).



Annex 1
Page 3 of 6
C.    Air Pollution from Industry
13.   Data on air emissions from industries in Egypt are also very scarce. Monitoring of releases is not a
standard procedure in industry. The available ambient air quality data indicate that the most severely
affected areas in Egypt are the Helwan area south of Cairo, the Shubra El-Kheima, Mustorod and Abu-
Zaabal areas north of Cairo, and areas west and east of Alexandria.
14.   Compared to international standards, the ambient concentrations of total suspended particles (TSP)
in the above monitored areas in Cairo is 5-10 times higher3, sulfur dioxide (SO2) 2-20 times higher, smoke
about 3 times higher, lead 2-20 times higher and nitrogen oxides (NO,) 2 times higher (Table 2). The
pollution level in Cairo is higher than in any of 20 largest cities in the World for which the Bank has data.
The average human blood lead levels are about 30 jg/dl for adults and 20 pg/dl for children. Those average
levels are also higher than in any city, except Bangkok, for which the Bank has data. Children living close
to lead smelters have an average of over 60p g/dl and 15-year-old in Helwan and Shubra El-Kheima have
an average of 40 - 50 ,ug/dl. The situation is less severe in Alexandria but the concentration of pollutants is
still much higher than the international standards.
15.   The USAID-financed health risk assessment estimated that if lead emissions are reduced in Cairo to
the level of the US ambient lead standard, a reduction of 6,500-11,600 heart attacks, 800-1,400 strokes,
6,300-11,100 cardiovascular deaths and 800-900 infant deaths per year would be achieved. In addition, lead
pollution was found to cause an average loss of 4.25 IQ points per child. The increased level of particulate
matter in Greater Cairo causes 90-270 million restricted activity days and 3,300-16,000 extras deaths per
year.
16.   Large point sources in the metallurgical, chemical (including refineries), and cement industries are
major contributors to the air deterioration in Greater Cairo and Alexandria. The emissions from those
sectors emanate both from the processes and the large use of fossil fuels. The metal and chemical industries
consumed 2.2 million tons of oil equivalent (MTOE) of fuel in 1989 resulting in large SO2 and NOx
emissions affecting the ambient air quality. Medium scale industries such as brick works, refractories and
small scale metallurgical plants are also contributing to the reduced air quality in those cities. However, the
ongoing conversion to natural gas is expected to decrease the SO2 pollution load..
17.   The metallurgical sector in Egypt includes both ore-based and scrap-based steel plants, ferro-alloys,
copper, lead, and aluminum smelters. Two metallurgical plants the Egypt Iron and Steel Co, an integrated
iron and steel plant, and General Metals, a metal smelter producing lead and other metals from scrap, are
located in Helwan. North of Cairo are the scrap-based steel plants Delta Steel and National Metals. In
addition there are several small scale metallurgical industries in Greater Cairo. There are 13 small lead
smelters in addition to General Metals. Lead emissions from the lead smelters in Cairo have been estimated
to over 500 t/y. In Alexandria one large steel plant - Alexandria National Steel - and the scrap-based copper
smelter Egyptian Copper Works, Misr Chemicals and Abu Qir Fertilizers are major sources of air pollution.
The emissions from the steel industry are given in Table 4. The data are based on audits prepared or
information collected by the design team during the preparation of this project. It should be realized that
steel works dust could contain a significant percentage of heavy metals (over 30% in scrap-based
production).
3 Ambient concentrations of lead are likely to decrease due to conversion to unleaded gasoline.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 6
18.   The cement industry in Egypt consists of 8 major plants, 3 of which are situated in Helwan, two in
Alexandria, one in Suez, one in Beni Suef, and one in Assyout. The production capacity of the plants in
Greater Cairo and Alexandria adds up to more than 10 million tons per year. A major part (60%) of the
production in these plants uses the more polluting and uneconomical wet process instead of the dry one.
The energy input needed for a wet process is roughly 1.5-2 times higher than a dry process dependent on the
degree of preheating and pre-calcination. NO,, emission from a wet process is on average roughly 4.5 kg
per ton of clinker but could range up to about 9 kg/t. Dry processes could range from roughly 0.5 to 4.5
kg/I. Based on those figures, the total NO, emissions for the Cairo and Alexandria plants would be over
20,000 tons per year. The total dust emissions from the same plants are over 250,000 t/y according to one
source. Another source claims 600,000 tly. One of the reasons for the exceedingly high dust emission is
said to be that the electrostatic precipitator are not operating well or at all, mainly because of difficulties to
reuse the filter dust.
19.   Another source in Helwan which negatively affects the air quality is the El Nasr Coke & Chemical
which releases carcinogenic poly-aromatic hydrocarbons, ammonia, hydrogen sulfides and dust. The audit
prepared for this project estimates the emissions of dust, hydrocarbons, ammonia, and sulfur dioxide to
roughly 3,400 tons, 3,800 tons, 280 tons, and 63 tons respectively.
20.   No emission data have been made available on the refineries in Cairo and the Alexandria
Metropolitan Area which are major sources of pollution. Experience elsewhere shows the releases of sulfur
dioxide and hydrocarbons could be expected to be high. Based on production levels for the Alexandria and
Amireya refineries (4.5 and 3 million tons respectively) in the Alexandria Metropolitan Area, the magnitude
of released pollutants has been estimated by use of emission factors. The estimated total emission of S02,
NO,,, and VOCs are 7,500, 1,500, and 7,500 tons per year respectively. It should be noted that there is great
uncertainty about those estimates, especially for SO2 releases for which it was assumed that both refineries
have sulfur recovery processes.



Annex I
Page 5 of 6
Table 1: Greater Cairo - Relative Health Risks from Industrial Pollution
_ _omem __sted Health Effets                          Sever* of Rch Ztfed
Air Polution
Particulate Matter           3,000-16,000 deaths/year                  Severe
Toxic Air Pollutants         200-700 cancers/year                      Severe
No non-cancer/effects
Carbon Monoxide               Significant cardio-pulmonary             Medium
effects in highly exposed
occupations                                                 l
Indoor Air Pollution          Respiratory symptoms and illness         Medium
when using kerosene and biomass
used for cooking/heating
Sulfur Dioxide                Impacts of asthmatics and                  Mild
sensitive age groups respiratory
symptoms for general population
in limited areas
Particulate Matter            90-270 million                             Mild
restricted activity days/year
Nitrogen Oxides               Respiratory symptoms in general            Mild
population
Water Pollution
Drinking water contamination  3-470 cancers/year                        Severe
from chemicals except lead    Doses of non-carcinogenic less
than reference doses
Solid and Hazardous Wastes    Modest contribution to                   Nearly all
microbilogical diseases. Small
contribution to effects from PM          Variable
air pollution. Likely significant        Variable
effects in scavenger communities
Source: USAID - Comparing Environmental Health Risks in Cairo, Egypt, USAID Report, September 1994.



Annex 1
Page 6 of 6
Table 2 (a): Air Pollution in Greater Cairo
PoJuutaut                   Concentration                  US Standard
________________________                 ( g/1m 3)                      (ug/m S)
Sulfur Dioxide                      40-156 annual mean              80 annual mean
Particulate matter                 349-857 annual mean              75 annual mean
Nitrogen Oxides                     90-750 hourly mean              100 annual mean
Carbon Dioxide                    1000-18000 hourly mean       40000 1-hour, 10000 8-hour
Lead                                0.5-10 annual mean             1.5 quarterly mean
Source: Comparing Environmental Health Risks in Cairo, Egypt, USAID Report, September 1994.
Table 2 (b): Air Emissions from the Egyptian Steel Industry
Emissions in ty .._...._...._.
Name                    Dust                  SO2                   NO,,
Egyptian Iron & Steel        15000-25000*            >4000**               >3100**
Delta Steel                     2500**                800**                 100***        l
National Metals               1500-2500*              2400***               300***
Alexandria Iron & Steel       4000-8000*               ND                    ND
ND = No Data.
*     Based on team estimates.
**    Audit estimates.
* **    Calculated based on an annual use of heavy oil.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
PROJECTS IN ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION
EARMARKED BY INTERNATIONAL DONORS
FROM 1994-96
Amount
Envir40nental      Donors Financial       (US$ Million                     ProjectlActivities
Areas             hstiXttionil        Equivalent)
Institutional        DANIDA                      2.7         Organizational Support Program: Institutional capacity
Building:                                                    building of EEAA.
(For EEAA, Sector
Ministries, and                              4.3          Establishment of Environmental Education & Training
Governorates)                                             Program in EEAA and other ministries.
0.3         Pilot activity for introducing economic instruments
(Under Design).
0.1         Preparation of North Sinai Environmental Action Plan.
0.37         Support to the Technical Cooperation Office of the
Environment (TCOE): Project Preparation.
FES (GERMAN                0.03         Support for four environmental sector studies.
NGO)
0.12         Awareness and media campaigns for the environment.
Italy                      0.37         Support to TCOE: Project Preparation.
JICA                       6.0          Laboratory Network for EEAA Regional Centers To
provide equipment for water and air monitoring systems
in eight EEAA mini-laboratories.
METAP                      0.58         Establishment of EMUs in Ismalia and El Sharkia
(The World Bank)                        Govemorates.
ODA                       2.08         NIPPP: Capacity Building in Environmental Impact
Assessment and Industrial Auditing Outside EEAA.
2.0         Preparation of Govemorate Environmental Action Plan
and Establishment of EMUs in Sohag and Dakahlia.
UNDP                       0.51         Support to TCOE (1994-96): Project Preparation.
0.42         Sustainable Growth and Development in Ismailia.
USAID                      0.37         Support to TCOE: Project Preparation.
0.23         Awareness campaigns for the Environment Protection
Law.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
Amos ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Aora
lEnvironsnentu     Dnowrs Fwa^ql        (S Milieu!                       Proetf/Activitiqs
SUBTOTAL
Institutional                                 20.48
Building
Information System    CIDA                     9.8          Environmental Information Systems (EIS) Design and
Implementation.
DANIDA                     1.8         Environmental Information & Monitoring Program for air
and coastal waters.
ODA                       0.08         Creation of a bibliographical database.
SWITZERLAND                1.0         Hazardous Materials Information and Management
Systems.
SUBTOTAL                                      12.68
InfDrmation System
NGOs and Private    CIDA                       14.8         Environmental Technology & Management Fund Project
Sector Support                                              (ENVIROTECH) for NGOs and private sector.
DANIDA                    0.3          Community Action for the Environment (CARE):
Preparation of enviromnental community action plans
(Under Design).
FES                       0.04         Support to NGOs capacity building.
UNDP                      0.23         Support to NGO for environmental sustainable
development
SUBTOTAL NGOs                                 15.37
Industrial Pollution:  FINNIDA                 2.5          Assistance in Environmental Auditing and Management
Audits and                                                  in two industrial sectors: pulp and paper and chemicals
Demonstration                                               (Under Design).
Projects
FES                       0.06         Support for the preparation of the World Bank's Pollution
Abatement Project.
METAP (EIB)               0.12         Cairo's Industrial Effluent Control Technical Assistance
Industrial Audits in Shoubra El Kheima.
ODA                       2.56         Demonstration Projects in Industrial Pollution Control in
the sectors of food and textiles with emphasis on Sohag
and Dakablia.
USAID                     5.0          Environmental Pollution Prevention Project: Pollution
prevention practices and technology in private and public
industrial enterprises [Component of the Energy
Conservation and Environment Project (ECEP) (US$50
million)].



Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
Amount
1nvwe,neu          Donors FinanUal       (1S Millwn intActivities
Armas            lastitntioaal        Equivalent)
World Bank'               0.72          Environmental audits of 18 industrial enterprises in
Greater Cairo, Alexandria, Suez and Ismailia.
Industrial Pollution:  DANIDA                   3.1          Hazardous Waste Management at Cairo University
Investments                                                 Hospital.
KfW (Germany)              6.9          Reduction of dust emissions in the Egyptian Cement
Industry in Helwan.
19.5        Elimination of existing mercury contamination
[Component of the Rehabilitation of Misr Chemical
Industries (MCI) Project (US$110 million) in
Alexandria].
10.8        Mitigation of environmental problems in the private
sector [Component of the Program Support to Private
Sector Industry and its Environmental Protection Project
(US$46 million)].
35.5         Environmental Protection Fund (Public Sector Industry):
Financing of investments to improve environmental
protection in public sector companies, concentrating on
wastewater treatment.
JICA                       14.5        Industrial Pollution Abatement in five major industries
(chemicals) in the industrial city of Kafr El Zayat
USAID                     15.0          Reduction of lead emissions in Cairo's private lead
smelters (Component of the Cairo Air Improvement
Project (US$50 million).
SUBTOTAL                                      116.26
Industrial Pollution
GRAND TOTAL                                  164.79
PHRD, Italian and Canadian Trust Funds.






Annex 3
Page I of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS OF THE SUB-PROJECT PIPELINE
.                                                      F te~~~~~~~~~~~4md    ' 
Sector         Company          An l             Mjor           Sub-project      Suprojeet       ?rojet      pay Back
Name         Production    Enironumetal                          Purpose          Cost        Yes
i_  _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _      Ibss es      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (US$' OOOb  _ _s_ _ _
Phase I
Metas
Alexandria      Alexandria       1.1 million    Environmental    Installation of   Environmental    1,300        No pay
(Private Sector)   National Iron  tons/year     monitoring       monitoring        compliance and               back
and Steel Co.                                    network          Total 'Quality
l______________                 _______________                    M anagement"                             l
Metallurgical   Egyptian Iron    1.2 million t/y   Pickling waste  Acid generation    Regeneration of   3,700   7
Cairo           and steel                                        3,000 t/y H2S04   waste pickle
(Public Sector)                                                  5,000 t/y Fe S04   liquor                                  l
Metallurgical   General Metals   10.000 tons of  Uncontrolled    Installation of   Reduction in     8,700       4
Cairo           Company          lead/year      lead emission    new lead         lead emissions
(Public Sector)                                                  smelting process   330 tly Pb
CT
Paper Products   Middle East     21.000         Discharge of     Installation of   Reduction in     2,600        6
Cairo           Paper Company  tons/year        fiber and        fiber and water    fiber and
(Public Sector)   SIMO                          wastewater to    recycling         wastewater
Mostord Canal    CT/EOP           5,000 t/y fiber
== ___________ ___________  4 m m ly water
Fertilizers     SEMADCO          0.7 million    Toxic            Installation of   Reduction in     2,500        25
Suez City                       tons/year       atmospheric and   scrubbing/       emissions
(Public Sector)                                 wastewater       recycling system    1,100 tly
releases         PP/EOP           NH4NO3                                   l
I Pbase   HllI_              _      _  _  _   _  _ _  _   _  _      _  _   _  _       _ _  _   _       _  _   _   _  _   _
Tanning         El-Nasr          5 m ft' /y     Hazardous        1) Recycling lime  Reductions:     1) 0,588     1) 4.2
Alexandria      Tanning          upper leather   wastewater to   sulfide liquor    1) 50 tly NaS    2) 0,093    2) 1.8
(Public Sector)   Company        390 tly sole    the sewer system   2) C02 Deliming   2) 188 tly Pelt   3) 0,511  3) 6.8
and the          3) Cr recycling    3) 30 tly Cr
Mediterranean                                                         . ._ l
Glass Cairo     El-Nasr Glass    41,000 t/y     Dust emissions    1) Automatic     1) Reduce dust   1) 1,930     1) 26
(Public Sector)   and Crystal    sheet, flint and  and pollution  mixing           emission by 800   2) 1,782   2) 11
Company         hand made      from firing in    2) Rehabilitation   t/y
furnaces         of firing system    2) Particulate
reductions and
saving of 2,300
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  tly     fuel                  l
Textile         Amerya           20,000 tly     Discharge of     Rehabilitation of   Discharge of   1,520        NA
Alexandria      Spinning and     gray and       untreated        existing          7,200 m /day of
(Private Sector)   Weaving       finished       effluents on land   wastewater     treated effluents
fabrics                         treatment plant    in Nubaria canal            __l
Plastics &      Egyptian Plastic  900,000       Lead emissions,   1) Centrifugal   1) Sludge        1) 100       1) 1.9
Batteries       & Electric       batteries units,  H2SO4, Pentane   separator      handling and    2-4) 1,730    2-4) NA
Alexandria      Industries       3,000 m        gas              2) Exhaust filter   recovery
(Public Sector)                  artificial                      3) Automatic      2) Control of
leather, 1,300                  mixing of H2SO4   lead emissions
tons plastics                   4) Solvent        3) Reduce
recovery         emissions
I______. I_                            .         ._.                4) Recovery    I 



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Secw          Ccompany          Annul           mjor           sb-proJ"t        sabpr4dc         ?"Jmt       PY J dt
Name         Production    EwnirmnsmaW                             rpoe           CoOt        V"S
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   I sues       '__     _   _                      UI SVOOO
Metallurgical   Egyptian         67,500 tly     Air emissions    (1) Conversion    (1) Reduce      410          6
Alexandria      Copper Works    carbon steel,                    from mazut to     emissions of
(Public Sector)                  7,600 t/y                       natural gas in    particulates,
copper and                      aluminum plant    SO2 and NO,
copper                          (2) Natural gas    (2) Reduce
products,                       fired new furnace  emissions of   1,000        4
23,400 t/y                      with particulate    particulates,
aluminum                        abatement        SO2 and NOx
controls in
aluminum plant
(3) Natural gas    (3) Reduce
fired new furnace  emissions of
with particulate    particulates,  1,100       6
abatement        SO2 and NO,
control in copper
plant
(4) Primary fume  (4) Reduce
dedusting system   particulate
for the EAF steel  emissions      1,200        NA
melting process
Chemicals       Egyptian         Mainly 50,000  Air emissions    Increase capacity  Incinerate 1,200   840      5
Alexandria      Petrochemical   t/y of PVC                       of incinerator    tly of
(Public Sector)   Company        resin and                                         chlorinated
45,000 t/y of                                    hydrocarbons
caustic soda                                     presently vented
to the air
TD   Tender Document        BCP   Best Commercial Practices      NA    Not Applicable
CT   Cleaner Technology     PP    Pollution Prevention           OEP   End-of-Pipe



Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS
1.    The estimated project costs is LE 191.7 million, or US$48.7 million. The foreign exchange
component of LE 156.4 million, or US$48.7 million, represents 83.9 percent of total costs. These
estimates are based on December 1995 prices and exclude taxes and duties. These were estimated in the
first project component at 100 percent for vehicles, 10-30 percent on monitoring and computer
equipment. In the second component, a 10 percent tax was estimated for capital industrial equipment.
2.    Price and cost contingencies were estimated on the first project component only since the second
project component is a credit line with fixed amount. A 10 percent physical contingency was estimated
on the equipment cost of the first project component and price contingencies have been based on a 7 per
cent increase annually for local costs and 2 per cent increase annually for foreign costs.
3.    The project provides for an estimated 323 person-months of long and short term consulting
services for the first project component. The cost of these services is based on average consultant month
of US$18,000 for foreign consultants and US$4,700 for local consultants. These rates compose
individual and overhead fees, local allowances and in the case of foreign consultants, international travel
and subsistence.
4.    The attached tables show a breakdown of project costs of the first project component and the cost
associated with the local management services of the PIU.
/



Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
Baseline Project Cost Estimates
(Constant 1995 US$)
unr          Unit Cost     UUit         Cost      Tax"       Funded       Funded
1. Technical and Institutional Support
A. EMUtEEAA Branch Support
I Long-term International Consultants
2 Short-term Intemational Consultants          person-months         11.3         20       230.2                   230.2
3. Salary Increments                           person-months         18.1         17       311.0                   311.0
4 Training                                     person-months          0 1      8,640       864.0                                864.0
5 Workshops                                                           2.5         96       240.0                               240.0
6 Local Study Tours (14 persons/tour)            workshop            25.0          4       100.0                    75.0         25.0
7 Equipment                                        tour               8.0          7        56.0                    6.0          50.0
i. Vehicles
ii Computers                                                     25.0          4       100 0       100.0       100.0        100.0
iii Photocopiers                                                  5.0          8        40.0        8 0         40.0          8.0
iv. Fax Machines                                                  6.0          4        24.0        4.8         24.0          4.8
v  Fumiture                                                       3.0          4        12.0        2.4         12 0          2.4
vi Monitonng Equipment                                            4.0          4        16.0                    16.0
37.5         4        150.0       45.0       150.0         45.0
Sub-Total                                                                 2,143.2      160.2       964.2       1,339.2
B. Pollution Abatement Action Plans
I Long-term Intemational Consultants           person-months         11.3        36       402.9                   402.9
2 Short-term Intemational Consultants          person-months         18.1         30       544.3                  544.3
3. Local Consultants                           person-months          4.7        120       564.0                  564.0
4 Measurements/Lab Tests                                                                   200.0                               200 0
5. Workshops                                                         25.0          4       100.0                   85.0          150
6 Study Tours (5 persons/tour)                                       30 0          3        90.0  _    _75.0                     15.0
Sub-totai                    _        __                   _              1,901.1        0.0      1,671.0       230.0
C. Industrial Audits
1. Long-term International Consultants         person-months         11.3        31       345.3                   345.3
2. Short-term Intemational Consultants         person-months         18.1         26       466.5                  466.5
3 Local Consultants                                                   4.7         15        70.5                   70.5
4. Measurements/Lab Tests                                                                   40.0                                40.0
5. Workshops                                     workshop            25.0          8       200.0                  175.0         25.0
Sub-Total                                                                 1,122.3        0.0      1,057.3        65.0
D. Awareness
I Long-term Intemational Consultants           person-months         11.3         15      172.7                   172.7
2. Short-term Intemational Consultants         person-months         18.1         13       233.3                  233.3
3 Workshops                                      workshop            18.0         15       270.0                  120.0        150.0
4 Campaigns                                      campaign            23.0          6       138.0                   90.0         48.0
5 Pamphlets, Articles, TV Spots                                                            150.0                   500         100.0
6 Meetings                                        meeting             1.5         10        15.0                                15 0
7. Intemational Conference Travel                  trip               6.5         6        39.0                    21 0         18 0
8. Equipment                                                       J_45.0                               9.0        45.0          9.0
Sub-Total                                                                 1,062.9        9.0       731.9        340.0
E. Project Implementation Unit
1. Personnel                                                                             1,124.6                              1,124.6
2. Steering Committee                                                                      28.7                                 28.7
3. Operating Costs                                                                         306.6                               306.6
4. Start-up Costs                                                                          110 8                                110.8
5. Administrative Audits                                                                   300.0                               300.0
Sub-Total                                                                 1,870.7                              1,870.7
GRAND TOTAL                                                                  8,100.2      169.2      4,424.5      3,844.9
F. UnaDlocated funds                                                                                                  289.3



Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
PIU Baseline Costs
(1995 LE)
Cost             Period              Total
(L'0OO/year)        (years)            (LZ'04*O)
Personnel
Project Manager                                   110                 6                  660
Deputy Project Manager                             60                 6                  360
Financial Specialist                               84                 5                  420
Industry Specialist                                84                 5                  420
Institutional Specialist                           72                 5                  360
Procurement Specialist                             60                 4                  240
Administrative/Contract Manager                    48                 5                  240
Secretaries (2)                                    60                 6                  360
Drivers (2)                                        24                 6                  144
Messengers (2)                                      8                 6                   48
Consultants/Advisors (2)                           84                 6                  504
Sub-Total                         694                                  3,756
Steering Committee
6 meetings/yr x 13 people x LE 200                 16                 6                  96
Operating Costs
Rent                                               60                 6                  360
Utilities (electricity, water, gas)                12                 6                   72
Phone, fax                                        24                  6                  144
Office supplies                                   24                  6                  144
Car operation and maintenance                      8                  6                  48
Accommodation                                     24                  6                  144
Security/cleaning                                  5                  6                  30
Maintenance                                        12                 6                  72
Sub-Total                         169                                  1,014
Total Annual Expenses (LE'000)              879                                  4,866
Start-up Costs
Cars (2)                                          200
Computers (8)                                      40
Printers (4)                                       12
Photocopier                                        25
Fax                                                 3
Telephone system                                   10
Furniture                                          80
Total Start-up Expenses (LE'000)            370



I~~~~~~~



Annex S
Page 1 of 6
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
A. DESCRIPTION OF A POTENTIAL APEX BANK - THE NATIONAL BANK OF
EGYPT (NBE)
1.      Background. NBE is a public and the largest commercial bank in Egypt in terms of
total assets. NBE has the largest branch network in the country reaching 316 branches covering an
extensive geographic area. This enables NBE to build a strong retail banking operations that offers
a number of saving schemes at competitive rates allowing it to build a high level of deposits. NBE
has a strong presence in money markets and in the areas of trade and project finance. It acts as the
lead bank to the Egyptian petroleum sector and handles all petroleum sale proceeds and their
investments. As the GOE will only extend a guarantee for a public sector bank, NBE has been
selected to be the Apex institution for the PAF. Annex 5 provides the NBE financial summary.
2.      The bank is managed by an 8-member
Board of Directors appointed by the Ministry of
the Economy, but management is free to   Table 1: Distribution of NBE Loans (1995)
determine the bank's policy and funding strategy
and directs the bank's operations. Management            LE Million    ° of Totat
is autonomous and dynamic. Major emphasis is  Agriculture   285           1.3
placed  on  the  bank's audit and  control  ind626                       302
departments.  The NBE credit departnent,  Tde              3,141         14.3
which will manage the credit and grant facilities,  Services  4,889      22.3
has the responsibility of approving the various  Other     6,972         31.9
types of loans. Its loan approval and monitoring
procedures are well developed. A client credit
analysis is prepared for loan approval. The client's financial position is analyzed from balance
sheets and income statements over the last three years, and a projected cash flow is prepared to
assess debt servicing and repayment capacity; and the client must provide a guarantee in the form
of physical assets and/or cash deposits. NBE has been accounting for its past problem loans and is
fully provisioned, as per CBE directives, on its non-performing loan portfolio. The financial
analysis provided below is based on the NBE audit reports till June 30, 1994 which was reviewed
by the Bank during pre-appraisal. Reference is also made to the unaudited report for FY 95.
3       Financial Performance. As of June 30, 1995, NBE's total assets and deposits reached
LE 47.3 billion (US$13.9 billion equivalent) and LE 35.3 billion (US$10.4 billion equivalent),
representing 25 percent and 26 percent, respectively, of total assets and deposits in the commercial
banks. In 1994, the assets and deposits were lower, reaching LE 42.5 billion (US$12.5 billion
equivalent) and LE 32.7 billion (US$9.6 billion equivalent) respectively.
4.      Portfolio. NBE total loan portfolio of LE 21.9 billion (US$6.44 billion equivalent) till
June 30,1995 increased from 18.7 billion (US$5.5 billion equivalent). The loan portfolio in FY94
was diversified in the industrial, trade, and service sectors (Table 1). Public sector and Government



Annex 5
Page 2 of 6
loans comprised 55.3 percent of the total loan portfolio in 1995, down from 65 percent in FY91.
Private business sector loans increased from 20.8 percent in 1991 to 30.5 percent in FY95.
5.       Liquidity.       The
structure of deposits changed                      Table 2- NBE Depoits by Type
significantly  from   FY91  to                             (LB Million)
FY94 in favor of longer term
deposits (Table 2).  The net                        1991            14              1
loans to  total deposits were        Dremand     6,404 (27.0%)   5,328 (16.3%)   5,786 (16A4%
squeezed to 53 percent in FY95
as opposed to 49 percent and 44      Time&       9,944 (42.0%)   14,358(43-9%)   16,183 (47.6%
percent in  FY94  and  FY93          Notice
respectively.  This is a direct      Savings     2,378 (l0.0%)   4,214 (129%)   5,296 (t5.0%)
result of the increase in loans      Certicate   2,938 (125%)   6,875 (21.0%)   5,041 (14.31/6
coupled with a slight decrease in    ofDeposits
deposits.  The deterioration of      Other       2,019 (8.5%>    1,928 (5.9%)   2,375 (6.7%>
the liquidity level is reflected in
the  liquid  asset ratio  which      TOTAL      23,683 (1000%)   32,7(3 (100%)   35,281 (100%)
reached 45 percent in FY95 and              ,__                  ___
48 percent in FY94. This is
mainly due to the transfer of
interbank deposits to the NBEs subsidiary which reduced the balance of due from banks. The bank
enjoys a strong customer deposit base increasing by almost 8 percent in FY95 while dropping
slightly by 3.8 percent in deposit balance in FY94. Sixty seven percent of the total deposits are in
local currency and 48 percent are considered time deposits.
6.       Lending Rates: Lending rates in LE by major commercial banks to industrial enterprises
at the end of 1995 normally fell in the range of 11-15 percent. Six months time deposit rates were
about 10-10.5 percent, resulting in a marginal cost of funds of about 11.5-12 percent if the non-
interest bearing Central Bank reserve requirement of 15 percent of deposits is included. Lending
rates in US dollars were normally 1-2 percentage points above LIBOR. Six months US dollar time
deposit rates were in the range of 4.5-5.5 percent depending on amount and bank. NBE offered
rates that were slightly above major private bank competitors for LE time deposits, but lower for
US dollar time deposits.
7.       Profitability. The NBE profitability has been consistent but low (Table 3). The return
on average assets (ROAA) has consistently been positive in the 1990s and has been 0.22 percent in
1995 slightly higher that 0.19 percent in FY94. The relatively low profitability can in part, be
explained by higher annual provisions but also higher operating costs These provisions have been
sufficient to keep capital, reserves and provisions to more than 25 percent of total loans,



Annex S
Page 3 of 6
which is equivalent to more
than 40 percent of all NBE
loans to the public sector or                   TabIe3  NBE?olabli(%)
almost 80 percent of all loans to                                    I im   J= 
public and private industry. In
order to improve its financial       (trn on aage assets     0.21    0.17    0.16   0.19
position, NBE is considering an     Opertintg Income on
. . . ~~~~~averap awfsts                     213    3.4   1.9    11
increase of its capital through a   Aa .r .sset                       ..
* * P . . . . ~Aanua isirovns to
combination of capital injection     toI: oans                3.8    9,9      3.7    4.1
and  possibly  a public  share      Capit, reserves &
offering to employees.  Such         provisions total loans  U.5   35.3    253    27.2
capital  increase  should  be       '         totow depsits  43.8   295    46.6   53.8
approved by the GOE
8.       Capital  Adequacy.
NBE's capital adequacy ratio reached a high of 9.61 percent in FY95 up from 8.6 percent in FY94.
In adhering to Central Bank regulations, assets should be risk-weighted according to international
practices, and the core adequacy ratio should be a minimum of 8 percent.
9.       NBE is currently implementing a restructuring plan to reduce its operating cost, improve
its customer services in order to compete for deposits, and improve profitability. IFC is considering
a Risk Management Facility for up to US$10 million loan equivalent of exposure to offer its private
sector clientele the ability to hedge interest rate and currency risks.



Annex 5
Page 4 of 6
National Bank of Egypt - Historical Financial Statement
(US$ Million)
Balance Sheet: YIE 6/0                                       Audited
.______  .    . .FY95       FY94             FY93
Assets
Cash                                              4,600            4,353            4,564
Investments                                       1,886             1,959            2,469
Loans, Advances & Bills Discounted                6,444            5,493             4,954
Fixed Assets & Other                                999              703              885
Total Assets                        13,929           12,508           12,872
Liabilities
Deposits                                         10,377            9,619             9,996
Due to Banks                                        726              591              644
Long-Term Loans                                      47               17                9
Other Credit Balances                             1,011              787              970
Total Liabilities                    12,161            11,014           11,619
Capital Reserves & Provisions                     1,748            1,494             1,253
Total Liabilities & Equity                13,909           12,508           12,871
Income Statement
Interest Income                                     818              782              850
Investment Income                                   181              241              297
Fee Income & Other                                  220              192              203
Total Income Statement                    1,219            1,215            1,350
Interest Expense                                    793              806              998
Salaries                                             47               43               39
Depreciation & Other                                 86               97               72
Provisions                                          249              226              185
Taxes                                                15               19               35
Total Expenses                        1,190            1,191            1,329
Net Income                             29               24               21
Ratios
Retum on Average Equity (%)                        1.81             1.71              1.72
iReturn on Average Assets (%)                      0.22             0.19              0.16
]Loans/Deposits (%)                               62.11            57.11            49.57
Liquid Assets/Total Assets (%)                    33.07            34.80            35.45
Source: Company reports.



Annex 5
Page S of 6
B. DESCRIPTION OF THE PARTICIPATING BANKS
A.    The Commercial International Bank (CIB)
1.    CIB was incorporated in 1975 as a joint venture bank between NBE and Chase Manhattan
Overseas Banking Corporation. Chase Manhattan sold its share to NBE in 1987. NBE continues to
be a major shareholder, but its share has declined from virtually 100 percent in 1987 to 42.15
percent in 1994. CIB operates fully independently of NBE, the bank has good internal systems,
including an internal audit department, and its procedures for credit appraisal, approval and
monitoring are well developed.
2.    CIB is the largest joint venture bank in Egypt in terms of total loans. The bank's loan
portfolio was LE 3,484 million in 1994, and concentrated in the industrial sector (62 percent), but
almost exclusively among quality private enterprises. Less than 3 percent of the loan portfolio is in
the public sector. Total loans increased by 26 percent from 1993 to 1994. The bank is the most
profitable large commercial bank in Egypt. Return on average assets increased steadily from 1.98
percent in 1990 to 3.42 percent in 1994. Operations are well automated. The bank attracts well
qualified staff, and places strong emphasis on training.
B.    The Cairo Barclays Bank { (CBB)-Banque du Caire Barclays International SAE}
3.    CBB was established in 1975 as a joint venture bank between Banque du Caire and
Barclays International. The bank has an authorized capital of LE 100 million while the issued and
paid up capital is LE 50 million. The bank has three branches in Cairo and one in Alexandria.
4.    The bank's loan portfolio was LE 872 million in 1994 was diversified in the industrial (22
percent), service (54 percent), trade (7 percent), agricultural (8 percent) and other (9 percent). Total
loans increased by 21 percent from 1993 to 1994 mainly as a result of the increase in industrial
loans. Return on average assets was 0.4 percent in 1994, similar to 1993. In 1995, the CBB was
selected as the Agent Bank for the EU Private Sector Financial Scheme worth ECU 52.5 million
(US$68.2 million equivalent) and designed to promote long-term private sector investment projects.
C.    The Misr International Bank (MIB)
5.    MIB was founded in 1975 as a joint venture bank. Bank Misr holds 58.1 percent of the
shares, but intends to gradually reduce its holding. Top management in MIBank are largely ex-
Bank Misr officers, and the chairman and deputy chairman are seconded from Bank Misr.
Automation is very advanced by Egyptian standards. The bank has strong commitment to training.
6.    MIB is the largest joint venture bank in Egypt in terms of assets, and second largest in
terms of total loans. The bank's loan portfolio was LE 2,293 million in 1994, and concentrated in
industry (25 percent) and services (61 percent), with almost 90 percent in the private sector. Total
loans increased by 7 percent from 1993 to 1994. Return on average assets was 0.85 percent in
1994, which is 30 percent higher than in 1993. This is low compared to CIB and EAB, but
substantially higher than for the public banks. The main reasons for the low profitability compared



Annex 5
Page 6 of 6
to CIB and EAB are low level of funds utilization, high dependence on time deposits (high cost of
funds), and its above average operating expenses.
D.    The Egyptian American Bank (EAB)
7.    EAB was established in 1976 as a joint venture bank between Bank of Alexandria (51
percent) and American Express Bank (49 percent). The managing director and heads of credit and
operations are seconded by American Express (AMEX). The bank's operations are fully
automated. Internal systems and control are of high standard and based on those of Amex.
8.    The bank's loan portfolio was LE 1,258 million in 1994, and concentrated in industry
(49 percent) and services (28 percent). Almost 99 percent of total loans is in the private sector.
Total loans increased by 16 percent from 1993 to 1994. Return on average assets was 2.63 percent
in 1994, up from 2.27 percent in 1993 but only marginally higher than in 1991. EAB continues to
be highly profitable relative to most other Egyptian banks, and well managed.
CIB         CBB         EAB           M
Core capital adequacy ratio-%      13.79        8.58        9.38         7.99
Total capital adequacy ratio-%     15.04        9.56        10.63        9.24
Interest margin-% Foreign Exchange  (a)         1.80        2.46         0.84
Interest margin-% LE                (a)         3.80        2.50         0.85



Annex 6
Page 1 of 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
OPTIONS FOR PROVIDING GRANTS TO INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES
A.    Background
1.    Many countries have found that financial incentive mechanisms are necessary to facilitate rapid
industrial investments and other measures to reduce pollution and comply with environmental regulations.
The most common mechanism is to provide grants to offset some portion of sub-project cost.
2.    Four approaches or a combination of theses, may be considered for allocation of grants:
(a)    A grant rate/size based on the environmental benefit of the sub-project
(b)    A flat grant rate for all qualifying sub-projects
(c)    A grant rate based on the financial payback of a sub-project
(d)    A grant to compensate for the cost of specific sub-project components.
B.    Description Of Options
3.    Grant based on the Environmental Benefit: Under this approach higher levels of grants are given
for sub-projects with higher levels of environmental benefit, and the grant level could also be adjusted in
recognition of the financial return that a company may obtain from the sub-project. This approach,
however, is highly complex as there is no absolute standard against which to determine an appropriate grant
level in relation to reductions in different pollutants in different locations. Thus the approach could become
arbitrary with lack of transparency and consistency across sub-projects.
4.    A Flat Grant Rate: This approach treats all qualifying sub-projects equally and awards grants on
the basis of a flat percentage rate of the sub-project cost. Qualifications for grants can be based on
environmental criteria that need not involve highly complex valuation of environmental benefits. The main
attraction of this approach is that it is transparent and therefore administratively easy to implement. A
drawback of the approach is that it makes no distinction between sub-projects that are financially attractive
to a company and sub-projects for which financial returns are insufficient to otherwise merit the sub-project.
5.    A Grant Rate based on Sub-Project Financial Payback: This approach awards grants on the basis of
the financial payback of a qualifying sub-project, with the level of the grant in inverse relation to the
payback period. The attractiveness of this approach is that it links the achievement of environmental
objectives to a company self-interest in undertaking sub-projects that meet environmental objectives. Thus
sub-projects that have rapid payback to the company are sub-projects that are attractive for a company to
undertake and are not supported by grant financing, although technical and other assistance may still be
provided to such sub-projects. The principal drawback to this approach lies in determining the payback
period. A company has strong incentives to overstate the payback period, and the future stream of costs and
benefits are associated with uncertainty.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
6.    Grant to Compensate For the Cost of Specific Sub-Project Components: This approach awards
granits to offset the cost of selected sub-project components related to pre- and post-investments costs such
as design engineering, civil works, commissioning, training and self monitoring. A estimate was made of
these costs using three sizes of sub-projects: (a) over US$5.0 million; (b) between US$5.0 and US$1.0
million; and (c) less than US$1.0 million. Calculations showed that these costs vary from 30 percent (for a
sub-project size of less the US$1.0 million) to 17.5 percent (for a sub-project size of more than US$5.0
million) of the equipment costs. This corresponds to an average of 20 percent of the investrnent costs. The
drawvback of this approach is that it is neither linked to the financial nor the environmental benefit of the
sub-project. Moreover, the assessment of component cost can be difficult if for instance the company
carries out the component (i.e., design engineering, civil works). This approach could also provide adverse
incentives to undertake sub-projects with a large cost share on components that qualify for grants.
C.    Grant Determination
7.     Sub-Projects should meet environmental criteria set forth in the SAR para. 2.14 to qualify for
grants. The mechanism for determining the grant share of sub-project cost should be transparent and easy
to a(lminister. On this basis, a grant share based on quantified environmental benefits or tied to specific sub-
project components are the least attractive approaches. To assess the relative merits of a flat grant rate
versus a grant rate in inverse relation to the payback period of sub-projects, environmental audits carried out
in 183 industrial enterprises can be reviewed.
8.    Of the environmental investments' sub-projects in the 18 enterprises, priority investments were
identified in 11 of these enterprises, estimated at about US$31.5 million (excluding taxes and duties). The
estirnated payback period and financial rate of return on the investments are (by percentage share of total
investments identified):
Share of total investments (%)    Payback period (yrs)       Financial rate of return1 (%/
(a) <1                           2                             49
(b)  8                         4to5                         15to21
(c) 53                        6to7.5                         6to 11
(d) 20                         >= 10                          <= 0
(e)  18                     no payback                      no return
9.    This profile indicates that 91 percent of the priority investments are financially unattractive. Even
the investments with payback in 4-5 years are not likely to be considered top priority by enterprises solely
fromi a financial return, and the estimated payback period is associated with some degree of uncertainty.
The profile of priority environmental investment sub-projects that eventually will be financed by the PAF
may change. Nevertheless, it is unlikely that most of the qualifying investments would be financially
attractive without a grant.
10.   Investments in category (c) and (e) constitute 91 percent of total identified priority investments, and
will also result in the majority of pollution reduction. Thus grants allocated to investmnent sub-projects in
these categories are the most important in terms of total grants awarded as well as the extent to which the
Financial rate of return is based on a useful life of investmnent of 10 years.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
grants induce overall pollution reduction. A grant share of 20 percent of investment sub-project cost
(exclusive of taxes and duties) would increase the estimated financial rate of return to about 11-16 percent
for the investments in (c). The return would still be below what may be considered priority investments by
enterprises. However, a 20 percent grant should be a sufficient incentive for enterprises to undertake the
investments, given that enterprises are expected to comply with the Environmental Law after the graceT
period. Such grant portion falls within the range of the pre- and post-investment costs described in para. 6
above.
11.   A lower than 20 percent grant share may be considered sufficient to induce the investments in (b),
and a higher than 20 percent share for the investments in (d). However, given some uncertainty in the
estimated payback and rate of return, and the enterprise incentive to overstate payback period if the grant is
linked inversely to payback period, it would be difficult to specify a grant share at a particular level higher
or lower than 20 percent. For transparency and ease of administration, a 20 percent grant share for
investments in (b) and (d), as for investments in (c), is determined appropriate. Investments in (a) would
not receive a grant, given that rate of return is considered sufficiently high even with a very high error
margin in the estimated payback.
12.   For the investments in (e), not even a grant of 100 percent would make the investments financially
attractive, but the likelihood of enterprises undertaking the investments during the grace period would
increase the larger the grant share. Investments in (e) are sufficiently distinct from investments in (b)-(d) in
terms of technology and therefore potential payback or lack thereof. Thus negligible transparency is lost if
the grant share for investments in (e) differs from grant share for investments in (b)-(d).
13.   In summary, grants will be awarded for qualifying investments as follows:
Payback period (yrs)                   Grant share of investment_cost eo)
0-2                                           0
> 2                                           20



r<>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
APPROVAL PROCESS FOR THE ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS
1.    Following is the approval process provided for screening, evaluating and monitoring the
environmental investments. Table I provides the proposed financing decision flow.
2.    Sub-Project Identification. Projects will be identified by the individual plants, by organizations
such as EEAA and donor agencies, and by recommendations by participating banks to their customers. The
PIU may provide technical assistance to the plant to identify environmental opportunities and develop a pre-
feasibility assessment and or an environmental audit. The plant and its participating bank will develop a
loan/grant proposal that will describe the project, its capital and operating costs, its environmental benefits,
its expected financial payback (if any), and the requested financing package. The participating bank will
determine if the client is credit worthy, whether the plant has reached the US$5.0 million funding ceiling,
and on a preliminary basis whether the proposed investment meets the project technical eligibility criteria in
para. 2.14. This package will be submitted to the PIU by the participating bank.
3.    Sub-Project Evaluation and Approval. The PIU will evaluate the technical merits of the
proposal using internal resources or local and international consultants paid for by funds available in the
first project component. This evaluation will verify the estimated costs and benefits, and determine the grant
portion of the package from the expected simple payback period (i.e., ignoring tax and costs of capital
impacts on cash flows) of the investment. The grant portion will be 20 percent of the total package if the
simple pay back exceeds 2 years. No grant will be provided for sub-projects with simple pay back is two
years or less.
4.    If a loan/grant request consists of several sub-investments having different payback, a grant arnount
will be calculated for each sub-investment based on its simple payback. These amounts will be added
together to determine the allowed grant amount for the entire request.
5.    If the requested package is less than US$2.0 million, the PIU would recommend it to the
participating bank and the Credit and Grant Facilities may disburse the funds to the participating bank
immediately. If, the requested package is between US$2.0 million and US$5.0 million, it must be reviewed
by the Steering Committee. In exceptional circumstances when the requested package exceeds US$5.0
million, the SC should consult with the World Bank. The SC will also review all PIU financing approvals
by the participating banks on a regular basis.
6.    Sub-Project Monitoring. The enterprise will sign an sub-project grant agreement with EEAA,
which will be attached to the sub-loan agreement specifying its responsibilities. These will include: (a) the
terms and conditions for the installation and operation of the funded equipment; and (b) the measures to be
taken for protecting the workers' health and safety, and provision of actual operating data. The PIU will
monitor compliance with this agreement. If an enterprise does not comply with the agreement, the grant will
be converted to a loan at current market rates, and the proceeds of this loan will be placed in the Grant
Facility.



Table 1: Financing Decision Flow
s  fimceit worthy                      m    Cttehal requirements?                  Participating Bank        3
PIU's Identifies Potential                                                                                                        Submits Rcquest to PIU
Environmental Investments                                                                                                               m             -        
iYes/                      \i\
Ye~~~~~~~s                             ommend nus
Isrqus  ccpale?susltatcptnqe
Ceny re9:;~~~~~Ban



Annex 8
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1. Impact Indicators                                                 Baseline           Mid-Proiec          End of Project
No. of Environmental Professionals in EEAA and EMU's                    44                  120                  220
Funding for Industrial Pollution Control (US$ million)                   0                   80                  200
11. Output Indicators
No. of Plants Monitoring Completed (sampling and analysis)               0                   15                   30
No. of Audits Completed                                                 20                   30                   40
No. of Pollution Abatement Action Plans                                  3                . 20                   40
III. Sample of Environmental Indicators 1/
A. Air Emissions
Entergrises                   Pollutants                             Baseline           Mid-Proiect         End of Proiect
General Metals                Lead                                 200-400tVy _1           lOt/y                25t/y
Plastic & Electric            Lead                                  26.7 mg/m3          10.0 mg/m3           13.0 mg/m3
SEMADCO                       Ammonium Nitrate                        180tVy               25t/y                50Vty
Nasr Glass                    Dust                                    80OtVy               5Ot/y                80t/y
B. Water Discharges
Pollutants/Actions                     Baseline           Mid-Project         End of Proiect
Nasr Tanning                  Chromium                                 30t/y               IVty                  2tV/y
SEMADCO                       Ammonium Nitrate                       1,000Vy               50t/y                55t/y
Amreya Spinning               BOD                                     1,00Wtty            IOOt/y                150t/y
Suspended Solids                        800t/y               50Vty                8OtVy
Plastic & Electric            Sulfuric Acid                           3.15t/y              0.2tty               0.3tVy
IV. Input Indicators                                                 Baseline           Mid-Proi            End of Project
Counterpart Funds: EEAA (LE million)                                     _                  6.8                 13.6
1/   Environmental indicators were estimated for the pipeline of sub-projects which would be submitted to the Apex and
participating banks for financing. Indicators for other sub-projects would be determined as part of the environmental audits.
ZI   tons/year.



ARAB REPUBL1C OF EGYPT
POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
__-.  1997   1   1998                    1999                    2000                   2001                   2002
____Q3   Q4  Q0 02  Q3  Q4 QI 02  Q3  Q4 QI  Q2 Q3  Q4 Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4 Q_  Q2 Q3  Q4
1.   ROECIINICAT. AND RE TINGTTIONAIT   SIPPOr 
A. institutional Strengthening
- InstiutionalAssessment  
- Operational Procedures forEMUs
-Annual Work Plan for EMU__ ___                                                                                          _
-Training-on-lhe-Job                            X    X    X    X    X    X    X    x X             X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    XX_
B. Industrial Component___                                                                                                              _
- Audils Audits
- PAAP Development                                                                                                 =                           = _                   - _   - _
- Assistance to Env. Investments_                      _     _                                                                            _     __
_C. Financing Component                                _1l                                                l     l            
-Need Assessment_                                                                                                                        _     __
-Guidelines Preparation_ _  ._
-Assistance to Scrcening _ - -.___ 
D. NGO Compenentt___||||||1           
-Need Assessment_                                     _I                         I            I     I     I         
-Operational Development _**11-         
-AssistanceltoPAAP Participation___I                                                                                       II
-Camipaigns                                      _    _I                      _      .I       I       _I                     _     =                            =      =    =
II. POLLUITION ABAI'EMENT FUlND                                                         |                  |                                  ..
- Review of Pipeline or Project by SC1____
- Preparation of Bidding Documents_____
-Procurement=__'  __======
-Call for Bids                                                       x X             IX                lX          I       X
Bid Award                                               _         |     |      -         i        -                         
-Installation of Equipmcnt |||||_    
_  -Commissioning__                                                                                         r                1      _       _
III. PROJECT REPORTING MONITORING &                    _     _                                   .                                        __
EVALUATION                                                                                                                                  __._
- Establishment of PIU_I                                                    i
- PIUProgress Report                                                                             x                       x                      x | |X        X.X            _
- Ambient Data_      .__.
- Supervision Missions                           _    _            X  |    |X|          |X           |X            X|       |XX                 -     XX_ 
- Mid-term Review.                                                                             I             _.._I
- Annual Audits                                  _    _I                    l_1  "1-X |              1.,|,,        Xl    :!                  



Annex 10
Page I of 4
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION OF SUB-PROJECTS
1.     Most environmental benefits, and particularly those related to human health impacts, can not be
subjected to a benefit-cost analysis as functional relationships between health impacts and reductions in
various pollutants are not yet adequately determined. However, functional relationships have been
relatively well established for particulates and lead. A benefit-cost analysis was therefore undertaken for
the sub-projects in the pre-screened pipeline which would reduce particulates and lead and could be
financed under the PAF:
Sub-project 1: Installation of a new lead smelting process to reduce lead emissions in a lead
smelter in Helwan.
Sub-project 2: Installation of a particulate arrestment system in the steel production unit in a
metallurgical plant in Alexandria.
Sub-project 3: Conversion from fuel oil (mazout) to natural gas in a glass and crystal factory in
Shubra El Kheima.
Economic Analysis
2.     Using a dose response model, which provides a relationship between health impacts and changes in
concentration levels of particulates (PM10) and lead, the benefit-cost analysis provided the following
estimates in Table 1.
Table 1: Sub-projects Benefits and Costs [US$ Million (base year FY97)]
Net Present Value of Benefits      Source oflDlfference
and Costs2
Costs1             Economic3      Financial        Taxes      Health
low   high4                             low    high4
Sub-project 1:    8.7          7.1   15.9       -2.3          0.6      8.8    17.6
Sub-project 2:   1.2           4.0   9.6        -1.7          0.1      5.6    11.2
Sub-project3:    1.754         0.05  0.95       -1.0          0.15     0.9     1.8
Excluding taxes.
2 The applied discount rate is 12 percent.
The corresponding ERRs are 30-50 percent, 75-160 percent and 13-24 percent for the three sub-projects.
4Low and high estimate of health benefits and economic NPV is based on: estimated range of emissions
reductions for sub-project 1; and estimated range for valuation of premature mortality from PM10 pollution for
sub-project 2 and 3.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 4
3.    Benefits and Costs: A 20 percent price/physical contingency is included in the investment cost of
the sub-projects. There are financial benefits only for sub-project 1 and 3. Financial benefits are not
adjusted for other than taxes and health benefits to arrive at economic benefits. The main financial benefits
are material (lead) and energy savings in sub-project 1, and energy savings in sub-project 3. Lead is a
traded commodity and domestic wholesale prices reasonably well reflect CIF import prices adjusted for
taxes and duties. Energy prices have in recent years raised to near international levels and/or long run
marginal cost of supply. Insofar as some energy prices are below opportunity cost, the economic benefits in
sub-project 1 and 3 are understated.
4.     The estimated health benefits are associated with a substantial degree of uncertainty.  A
conservative approach to most key parameter values has therefore been applied in order to not overstate
estimated health benefits vis-a-vis these parameters. Key parameters are:
(a)    dose response coefficients (the functional relationship between pollution exposure and
health impacts);
(b)    exposure to pollution from industrial sources addressed by the sub-projects;
(c)    monetary valuation of health impacts; and
(d)    emissions reductions resulting from the sub-project investments.
5.    Dose Response Coefficients: The dose response coefficients applied are the central estimates from
a series of epidemiological studies in the United States and Europe summarized in the World Bank's Policy
Research Working Paper No. 1301 (1994) by Dr. Bart Ostro at the California Environmental Protection
Agency. Dose responses in Egypt could be substantially different depending upon factors such as time
spent indoor versus outdoor, indoor air protection from outdoor pollution, general health status, and
behavioral characteristics such as smoking habits. A study on health impacts from particulate pollution
(TSP) in Santiago estimated dose response coefficients at very similar levels to the central estimate
presented in the World Bank paper.
6.    Exposure to Lead: The source of lead emissions addressed by sub-project 1 is not located in the
center of Cairo. The number of people exposed to a ton of lead emissions from this source is likely
substantially less than the number exposed to a ton of lead emissions from road vehicles throughout Cairo,
given that the population density around the sub-project 1 location is lower than the average for Cairo.
Estimated impacts per ton of lead emissions are therefore adjusted downward by a factor of ten relative to
the average estimated impact per ton of lead in Cairo. This is likely to under estimate the exposure and
health impacts, but is applied in order to arrive at a conservative estimate.
7.    Exposure to PM1O: The sources of PMI0 emissions addressed by sub-project 2 and 3 are also
located at some distance from the city centers of Cairo and Alexandria. However, most industrial PM10
emissions are from sources at similar distances, and are disbursed over large areas, causing an air
concentration level of PM10 at several times higher than WHO guidelines. Thus, emissions from the
sources addressed by sub-project 2 and 3 can be expected to have similar impact as emissions from most
other major industrial sources. Health impacts per ton of PM10 emissions have not been estimated for
Cairo and Alexandria. Estimates for Tehran in Iran have been applied. It should be noted that the health
impact per ton of PM10 applied here are very conservative compared to recent estimates from other
developing countries.



Annex 10
Page 3 of 4
8.    Monetary Valuation of Lead Impacts: The key parameter associated with valuation of lead
impacts is the economic cost of neurophysiological impairment in children resulting in lower intelligence
and subsequently lower educational performance and future income potential. Estimated losses in future
income in the United States have been adjusted by the average income differential between the United
States and Egypt. Insofar as urban/rural income disparities in Egypt are larger than in the United States, the
estimated income loss for Egypt is understated.
9.    Monetary Valuation of PM10 Impacts: The key parameter associated with valuation of PMI0
impacts is the valuation of premature mortality, which tends to outweigh the cost of morbidity. Valuation
of premature mortality is normally the statistical value of life, which is based on the willingness of an
individual to pay for a reduction in the probability of death (and has nothing to do with the ethical value of a
human life). Estimates of the statistical value of life most often fall in the range of US$2-8 million in the
United States with a central estimate of about US$4 million. The US Environmental Protection Agency
normally apply a value of US$5-6 million. Caution must be taken, however, in applying these values to the
loss of a life due to PMI0 pollution. The estimated range is for individuals in their prime age that can
expect to live another 30-50 years. Most individuals who die from PMI0 pollution are likely to have less
than average good health and lower remaining life expectancy. A survey of monetary values of a statistical
life by age group indicates a 25 percent lower value for individuals above the age of 65 relative to
individuals below the age of 65. This would suggest a central estimate of US$3 million for individuals
above the age of 65, which group may be more likely to die from PM10 pollution. A conservative value of
US$1 million has been applied here for the "low" estimate, while US$3 million has been applied for the
"high" estimate. The figures have been adjusted by the average income differential between Egypt and the
United States, i.e. to US$25,000 and US$75,000.
10.   Emissions Reductions: Emissions reductions expected by the investments in the sub-projects have
been estimated based on on-site inspections, emissions monitoring, technical specifications of technology to
be installed, and assumptions about operating efficiency of these technologies. Emissions reductions could
be overstated, but there is limited basis for specifying a lower and higher range other than for sub-project 1.
Conservative benefit estimates have rather been arrived at by conservative valuation of the health benefits
of emissions reductions.
11.   Sensitivity analysis: A sensitivity analysis is presented in Table 2 for the most critical parameter
values. The baseline values were applied to estimate the economic net present values and economic rates of
return presented in Table 1 for the three sub-projects. The ranges of baseline values in Table 2 are
estimated based on the discussion in the preceding paragraphs. The switching values fall within all
reasonable confidence intervals. Moreover, long-term health impacts of PM1 0 are also not included in sub-
project 2 and 3 benefits, as these impacts are generally not accounted for in the dose response estimates
applied.



Annex 10
Page 4 of 4
Table 2: Sensitivity Analysis- Sub-Project Economic Benefit and Cost
Sub-project 1:     Sub-project 2:        Sub-project 3
Pollutant                             LEAD                PM10('P              PM10(1)
Current emissions (tons/year)        200-400                350                   55
Baseline(2):
Emissions reductions (tons/year)     190-380               330                   55
Benefit of reductions (US$/ton)       8,000             3,000-6,000          3,000-6,000
Project cost (US$ million)             8.7                  1.2                  1.75
Switching values (3):
(relative to baseline)
Emissions reductions OR
Benefit of reductions             -80% to -90%        -70% to -85%          -10% to -55%
Sub-project Cost                 +80% to 180%         +200% to 600%          +5% to 65%
(1) PM1O: particulates with diameter less than 10 pm.
(2) Baseline: levels used for estimating economic rate of return (ERR) and net present value of economic
benefit and cost flows (NPV).
(3) Switching value: Parameter values that would yield ERR=12% or NPV=0.



IBRD 27757
,7_                t                                              ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREA BOUNDARIES
PROJECT GOVERNORATES                    4 O  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
Cra   *  INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION HOT SPOTS        ®  GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
A     EEAA BRANCHES                             6   INTERNATIONAL CAPITAL
j ARAB Y+                          *  ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT UNITS             GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
LIBYA      j   REPUBLIC  ,                           CANALS                                  - - - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
OF EGYPT                   -           PERENNIAL RIVERS AND LAKES
i~ -.-C-9 INTERMITTENT RIVERS AND LAKES
\   \---------<._                -=----  MARSH
CHAD                                                 MARSH                         50                   100 KILOMETERS
THeD booedor,\ , cjlor SUDANr  f
<,eo,oin aqdM> an5X                                                                                       ,-. _<6+;Edr6  
,_2rnfroo shor         <- -. I      ¢       n r - --                -}                    ,4                 c1 p.r. > X(
oracceptanceofsuchj  --.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -~fo\-Si
-u  s       .~' ,v             -.                        3 ' '     .    '"_','  I   }   '.X. ;x '~  ,,2"-~ '- 's   s   +.vt  -3
8   E  H   E-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ACH19
M A R K As *'M_>iT:RsUx o 1 **t _Tz < .-~~~i i
I  B   ~   \ > \           g                      ^ -       Z.,>        | x   >    >      >      r<, CFt
orayfno5MEn       ~~f-_    |Xi     >  t A   HR ES  A,,  M.  TA R  U<_ ~ ~  f
Th boundorne's co  i_ors,                                               S\             !f     2             v<Q<  r
~~~,denomynations ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~MAC an an96,



