Report No. PID6714
Project Name                     Egypt-Pollution Abatement Project (+)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       EGPA54958
Borrower                         Arab Republic of Egypt through
the Ministry of
International Cooperation
Implementing Agency              Mr. Yasser Sherif, Project Manager
Project Preparation Unit
Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA)
30 Misr - Helwan Agricultural Road, Meadi,
Cairo, Egypt
Tel. 9-011-202-3757306/3750874
Fax. 0-011-202-3784285
E-mail: epap@link.com.eg
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                October 15, 1997
Projected Board Date             December 4, 1997
1.      Sector Background: Since 1960, Egypt has witnessed rapid
industrialization without enough emphasis on the protection of the environment
and the resultant impacts on the health of its people. A severe air and water
pollution situation already exists in the two largest cities of Greater Cairo
and Alexandria which accounted for over 80 percent of the industrial activity
in Egypt: All the drains and branches of the Nile are contaminated with
bacteriological pollutants, chemicals, and heavy metals. The concentration of
total suspended particulate in Cairo is 5-10 times higher, and on average,
sulfur dioxide is 4 times higher, smoke and lead 3 times higher and nitrogen
oxides 2 times higher than WHO guidelines. Serious environmental problems are
also likely to extend to the Suez Canal cities where industrial activities of
the private sector are rapidly expanding. In 1994, Egypt enacted the
Environment Protection Law (EPL) #4 which gives the regulated community a
period of three years (starting from the issuance of the Executing Regulations
(ER) of February 1995) to comply, with potential additional extensions of two
one-year periods. It also mandated the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency
(EEAA) as the highest national agency under the Cabinet of Ministers to be
responsible for the coordination and supervision of environmental affairs.
The GOE intends to enforce this law by focusing first on the major polluters
and polluted industrial zones and assisting them to move towards compliance
while developing a longer term program for a comprehensive monitoring and
enforcement program.
2.      Project Objectives: The project's broad objective is to assist the GOE in
reducing industrial environmental pollution causing adverse health effects
and/or ecological degradation. Its specific objectives are to strengthen the
monitoring and enforcement capabilities of the environmental institutions and
establish technical and financial mechanisms for pollution abatement
investments in Greater Cairo, Alexandria, and the Suez Canal cities of Suez



and Ismailia.
3.      Project Description: The project consists of two main components:
(a)     Technical and Institutional Support:   This component would provide
technical assistance and training for: (i) establishing three EEAA's regional
branches and upgrading the environment management units in four governorates
by strengthening their monitoring and enforcing pollution control measures;
(ii) financing the preparation of pollution abatement action plans for the 30-
40 worst industrial polluters (iii) supporting an environmental audit program
for sub-projects which could be financed under the second project component,
including training in environmental audits and providing technical information
in least-cost pollution prevention and abatement measures to the relevant
enterprises, ministries, financial institutions and private consulting firms;
(iv) promoting awareness and media education programs to NGOs to increase
their participation in monitoring the governorate and enterprises' actions for
pollution control; and (v) designing an integrated pollution control strategy
with appropriate market based mechanisms and implementing this strategy on a
pilot scale in the industrial zone of Shoubra El Kheima. This component is
already financed with a grant from the Government of Finland which provided
already a Finnish Management/Technical Assistance Contractor (MTA).
(b)     Pollution Abatement Fund (PAF): A Pollution Abatement Fund would be
established to provide financing for environmental investment sub-projects in
an estimated 40-50 public and private enterprises to bring their effluent
discharges and/or air emissions towards compliance with the EPL in a cost
effective manner. The PAF would comprise: (i) a Credit Facility to provide
sub-loans with a maturity of 5-8 years with 1-2 years grace, and at market
interest rate interest and (ii) a Grant Facility to provide limited, one-time,
time-bound and transparent cost sharing of the pollution abatement
investments.
4.      Project Financing: The total project cost is estimated at about $48.7
million for an implementation period of six years. The Bank/IDA contribution
is of the order of $35 million
5.      Project Implementation: The National Investment Bank will be the borrower
of the IBRD loan and the Government of Egypt the Borrower the IDA credit.
Overall coordination and policy guidance of the project is entrusted to a
Steering Committee (SC). A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) with qualified
staff, was established in EEAA to manage the first component of the project
and undertake investment related responsibilities in the PAF. NIB would on-
lend the IBRD and IDA proceeds to an Apex Bank which will also act as a
participating bank. Four other local banks are expected to participate in
this project. With the assistance of the PIU, the Apex and participating
banks would pre-screen environmental investments proposed for funding by the
project, assist enterprises in developing a sub-project in accordance with the
eligibility criteria, determine the financial viability of the enterprises,
negotiate the sub-loan and grant agreements with the enterprises, take the
commercial risk for the sub-loans and promote the program among their
customers. The management and technical assistance (MTA) firm would also
provide technical support to the PIU and the participating banks for screening
and evaluating the sub-projects.
6.      Project Sustainability: EEAA's establishment of its regional branches
- 2 -



well as the preparation of the pollution abatement action plans at the
governorate's and plant's level would ensure that the monitoring and
enforcement would be institutionalized. The support provided to NGOs and the
media would help create a core of skilled individuals dedicated to improve the
environmental quality nearby the polluting industries. Furthermore the
Project would strengthen the capacity of the banking staff to enable the local
banks to eventually provide financing for environmental investments from their
own sources.
7.      Lessons Learned: The main lesson emerging from the Bank's environmental
project experience is that broad-based policies supported by strong
institutions should be in place if pollution abatement projects are to be
successful. These polices include: (a) use of an integrated pollution control
approach with a combination of command and control approach and market based
incentives; (b) strong institutional capabilities in monitoring and
enforcement; and (c) Government commitment and ownership. In recent Bank
operations, support for such policies was supplemented with financial
mechanisms in the form of credit lines.
8.      Environmental Aspects: The project falls within category "B" in
accordance with the classification in O.D. 4.01 Annex A. The project would
lead to reductions in air, water, solid, and hazardous pollutants by helping
implement environmental investments at industrial plants. This in turn would
lead to improvements in the health and safety of the workers in the industrial
plants and the general population near those plants.
9.      Project benefits: Benefits would result from the reduction of emissions
and the resulting environmental degradation in the "hot spots" of Greater
Cairo, Alexandria and the Suez Canal cities. The institutional and technical
support component, a prerequisite for any effective pollution control program,
would strengthen the regional and local capabilities in monitoring and
enforcement of appropriate policies and regulations. It would also assist the
GOE in combining a command and control approach with market based instruments
in terms of introducing pollution charges and tax incentives that would
encourage environmental investments by industrial enterprises, and lower their
overall compliance costs. The first project component would also benefit the
local NGOs, their constituencies and the media and increase their
participation in monitoring the Governorate and enterprises' actions for
pollution control. This would generate public support for environmental
efforts and create a public expectation for enterprises to adopt good
environmental and safety practices. The technical assistance to the plants
would help them evaluate low cost/no cost and pollution prevention options,
as well as more expensive environmental investments. These options would not
only reduce emissions but may also improve plant efficiency, improve product
quality, and lower costs for energy and raw materials.
10.     Poverty Category: Not Applicable
11.     Contact Point:
Task Manager: Sherif Arif
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone (202) 473-7315
-3-



Fax (202) 477-1374
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 14, 1998.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



