                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 33287

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (SCL-42630 IDA-30240)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$35.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

                       FOR THE EGYPT POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT




                                           September 30, 2005




Water, Environment, Social and Rural Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective March 30, 2005)

                                  Currency Unit = 1 Egyptian Pound (LE)
                                         LE 1.00 = US$ 0.174
                                           US$ 1 = LE 5.72

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                        July 1    June 30

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CIB:       Commercial International Bank (Egypt)
CAP:       Compliance Action Plan
EEAA:      Egyptian Environment Affairs Agency
EIB:       European Investment Bank
EMU:      Environment Management Unit
EPAP:     Pollution Abatement Project
EPF:      Environmental Protection Fund
EPL:      Environment Protection Law
FINNIDA:  Finnish International Development Agency
GIPAP:    Governorate Industrial Pollution Action Plan
GOE:      Government of Egypt
GOF:      Government of Finland
IBRD:     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA:      International Development Association
KfW:      Kreditanstalt fur Weideraufbau of Germany
MTR:      Mid-Term Review
NBE:      National Bank of Egypt
NIB:      National Investment Bank
NEAP:     National Environment Action Plan
NGO:      Non-Governmental Organization
PAAP:      Pollution Abatement Action Plan
PAF:      Pollution Abatement Fund
PE:       Public Enterprises
PHRD:     Policy and Human Resources Development Fund of Japan
PIU:      Project Implementation Unit
RBO:      Regional Branch Office of EEAA
SAR:      Staff Appraisal Report
SC:       Steering Committee
TA:       Technical Assistance
TISC:     Technical and Institutional Support Component


                                 Vice President:     Christiaan J. Poortman
                              Country Director       Emmanuel Mbi
                      Sector Manager/Director        Vijay Jagannathan/Inger Andersen
                             Task Team Leader        Hocine Chalal

                                    ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
                               POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT


                                              CONTENTS




                                                                                   Page No.
     1. Project Data                                                                    1
     2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
     3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
     4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
     5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
     6. Sustainability                                                                13
     7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
     8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
     9. Partner Comments                                                              15
     10. Additional Information                                                       16
     Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
     Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             46
     Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             52
     Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             53
     Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             55
     Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                58
     Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            57
     Annex 8. Borrower's Project Completion Report                                    58
     Annex 9: Co-Lender's Completion Report                                           69
Map IBRD 34260

Project ID: P054958                                                  Project Name: Egypt Pollution Abatement Project
Team Leader: Hocine Chalal                                           TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Egypt Pollution Abatement Project                        L/C/TF Number: SCL-42630; IDA-30240
   Country/Department: ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                             Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (92%); Sub-national government
                            administration (3%); Central government administration (2%);
                            Other social services (2%); Banking (1%)
                  Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (P); Environmental
                            policies and institutions (P); Participation and civic engagement (S);
                            Municipal governance and institution building (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/15/1996                                     Effective: 01/20/1999                01/20/1999
     Appraisal: 07/15/1997                                         MTR: 03/31/2001                  03/31/2001
      Approval: 12/16/1997                                      Closing: 09/30/2003                 03/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT/EGYPT ENVIRONMENT AGENCY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Emmanuel Mbi                                   Khalid Ikram
Sector Manager:                 Vijay Jagannathan                              Salah Darghouth
Team Leader at ICR:             Hocine Chalal                                  Sherif Kamel F. Arif
ICR Primary Author:             Ahmed El-Hamri


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

In the early nineties, severe air and water situation affected the two largest cities in Egypt, Greater Cairo
and Alexandria, which account for over 80% of the industrial activity in the country. This was aggravated
by additional environmental problems in the cities of Suez, Ismailia, and Tenth of Ramadan (50 km
north-east of Cairo) where private industrial activities were expanding rapidly. These industries were
located in highly populated areas, exposing more than 10 million people to industrial pollution and resulting
in serious health risks.

In response to the above, the Bank was requested to assist the Government of Egypt (GOE) in tackling the
issue of industrial pollution in the country. According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR - November
1997), the development objective of the project was to assist GOE in reducing industrial pollution causing
adverse health effects and/or ecological degradation. Its specific objectives were to strengthen the
monitoring and enforcement capabilities of the environmental institutions and establish technical and
financial mechanisms for supporting pollution abatement investments in Greater Cairo, Alexandria, Suez
and Ismailia.

At the time of project preparation, an environmental protection law had just been enacted in 1994 and
environmental institutions had just been set up. As both institutional and regulatory frameworks had not yet
reached a mature stage, the Bank based its approach on a strong capacity-building program as well as on
the establishment of a Pollution Abatement Fund (PAF) to test, on a pilot basis, the feasibility of
market-based instruments to encourage pollution enterprises (established before the enactment of the
environment protection law) to invest in pollution abatement measures.

Egypt Pollution Abatement Project was approved by the Board on December 16, 1997 for an amount of
US$35 million, and became effective on January 20, 1999. The original closing date of the loan was
September 30, 2003 and the revised closing date was March 30, 2005.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project's main objective was not revised during the course of project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

The Pollution Abatement Project (EPAP) consisted of two major components and four sub-components :

The Technical and Institutional Support Component (TISC): This component was directly related to the
activities of the pollution abatement investment component. It was co-financed by the Government of
Finland (GOF) through a grant to the GOE (L.E. 13 million) of FMK 26 million (Euro 6.02 million
equivalent). The component was designed to provide needed technical assistance (TA), studies and training,
monitoring equipment and field vehicles to support the following four sub-components.

         (a) Strengthening the capacity of the Egyptian Environment Affairs Agency (EEAA) branches
             and Governorates' Environment Management Units (EMUs). The objective of this
             sub-component was to strengthen the technical and administrative capacity of the three
             regional branches of EEAA and the four EMUs in the Governorates of Alexandria, Cairo,
             Qaliubiya and Suez.



                                                    - 2 -

         (b) Development of Pollution Abatement Action Plans (PAAPs). This sub-component was
             designed to finance the preparation of PAAPs for approximately 40 major industrial polluters
             in Egypt. These polluters were identified on the basis of environmental criteria developed
             during project preparation. Individual enterprises who prepared PAAPs were considered
             potential candidates to access the PAF established under the second component of EPAP.

         (c) Support for Environmental Audit Programs. This sub-component included the following
             activities: (i) professional services from environment experts to review and/or conduct
             environmental audits at the request of the individual enterprises; (ii) training services in
             environmental auditing and financing for qualified personnel from sector ministries, industrial
             and banking organizations, enterprises and consulting firms; (iii) "on-the-job" training and
             training-for-trainers programs, as well as the development of appropriate guidelines for
             participating Egyptian banks on selecting and evaluating environmental loan applications; (iv)
             technical assistance and training of plant managers for protecting workers' health and safety;
             and (v) establishing a database on the relative cost effectiveness of various types of prevention
             and abatement sub-projects.

         (d) Promoting Awareness and Media Education Programs. This sub-component supported the
             participation of the local communities and the media in the preparation, monitoring and
             follow-up on the Governorate Industrial Pollution Action Plan (GIPAP) and the PAAPs of the
             major industrial polluters. In addition, it aimed at strengthening the technical and
             administrative capacity of two local non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and included the
             following activities: (i) the development of methodologies and training materials for evaluating
             the results of industrial pollution control; (ii) the organization of specialized seminars and
             workshops to disseminate information on the PAAPs; and (iii) the introduction of information
             on new technologies and practices to professional associations and interest groups involved in
             environmental activities in Egypt.

The Pollution Abatement Investment Component

This component consisted of the PAF estimated at US$35.0 million from an IBRD loan of US$20 million
and an IDA credit US$15 million equivalent as well as the enterprises' investment contribution estimated at
US$4 million equivalent. The objective of the PAF was to assist approximately 25 financially viable public
and private enterprises established prior to the enactment of the Environment Protection Law No. 4 of
1994, and , bring their effluent discharges and/or air emissions in compliance with the Law in a cost
effective manner. The initial pipeline of sub-projects included waste minimization, pollution prevention,
resource recovery, adoption of clean technology, fuel substitution and end-of-pipe environmental control
where no other alternatives were available. In addition, the envisaged subprojects covered various industrial
activities, enterprises and environment problems such as air pollution, work environment, wastewater
emissions and solid waste recycling. The tentative initial list of sub-projects was significantly modified
during the course of implementation essentially to reflect evolving eligibility issues and changing
commitments from the corresponding enterprises. A list of the sub-projects financed under EPAP is
presented in Annex I, Table 1 of this report.




                                                     - 3 -

Assessment of Design

Project identification and preparation began in 1992 when Egypt was still a centrally planned economy and
where public enterprises accounted for 60% of industrial output. The appropriate environmental
institutions and adequate legislation were not in place. GOE had embarked upon economic reforms to
restructure public sector enterprise systems which while costly to manage, contributed greatly to
environmental degradation. However, in 1994 an environment protection law for Egypt was enacted. As a
consequence, the design of the project focused on the establishment of a sustainable framework that would
ensure an efficient implementation of environment protection legislation while recognizing that enforcing
the law would be a gradual process. EPAP was designed as a pilot operation that needed to produce
demonstrative effects that could be replicated into other environmental management programs.

The components of the project were strategically designed to offer a platform for broad-based policies
supported by an institutional framework and targeted policies that included: (i) the use of a combination of
command and control approach and market based incentives; (ii) a strong institutional capacity in
monitoring and enforcement; (iii) GOE's commitment and ownership; and (iv) participatory schemes for
community involvement in environmental policy design. The overall purpose of the design was to have the
industrial sector move toward compliance through a "Four I's strategy": (i) appropriate Incentives
included grants and a financing strategy; (ii) a strengthened Institutional framework; (iii) targeted
Investments; and (iv) Information dissemination through the Bank, NGO's and the establishment of an
environmental database.

3.4 Revised Components:

The project's two components were not revised. However, corrective measures were taken by the Bank, in
agreement with GOE, during the project's Mid-Term Review (MTR), which aimed at refocusing the
project and at streamlining activities that were slowing down project implementation. These measures
concerned the following components:

·        The Technical and Institutional Strengthening Component (TISC): As part of the TISC, one of
         the measures undertaken was the cancellation of PAAP preparation. PAAP documents were to
         some extent useful, but the time and effort necessary for their preparation was proving to be an
         impediment in implementing the investment component of the project. None of the enterprises for
         which a PAAP was prepared integrated the recommendations into their operations. Additionally,
         their preparation was costly (US$30,000 to US$50,000) and time consuming (about one year).
         Thus, the Bank recommended that PAAPs be prepared solely on a voluntary basis. However,
         Compliance Action Plans (CAP), which focused on mitigating measures taken in order to reach
         compliance with the Egyptian Environmental Regulations, which were much more useful, costed
         less and were prepared in a shorter time (2-3 weeks). CAPs proved so useful that they are now an
         integral part of EEAA's system of industrial pollution management.

·        The Pollution Abatement Investment Component. The project's original design called for
         financing about 25 sub-projects preferably in the heavy industrial sector (metallurgical and
         chemical), and in accordance with strict eligibility criteria related to emissions that would have
         potential health problems or adverse environment impacts (air emissions from heavy metals,
         carcinogenic compounds, dust and sulfur dioxide). However, during implementation, within the
         pipeline of proposed sub-projects comprised mainly heavy industry which were mostly public
         sector enterprises, only three sub-projects in the fertilizer sector and one in the aluminum


                                                     - 4 -

        production sector were eligible. Generating additional sub-projects based on the proposed initial
        pipeline proved to be a constraint, given the poor financial viability of the public sector enterprises.
        Using the flexibility allowed by the project design and objectives, it was decided at the mid-term
        review to extend the scope of the project both geographically and thematically. These modifications
        consisted of: (i) a focus on private companies. EPAP would no longer pursue public sector
        companies which were considered to be major polluters, but most of them, however, were not
        financially viable, and therefore were not eligible to receive loans from commercial banks; (ii) an
        expansion of the geographical area. Additional sectors such as petroleum, cement, pharmaceutical
        and agro-business were now also eligible as long as they fulfilled the project objective as defined in
        the Loan/Credit Agreement; (iii) a simplification of the eligibility criteria; and (iv) an inclusion of
        hazardous waste management projects.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

This ICR assesses the quality at entry as Satisfactory. The project components were clearly defined and
complemented each other very well. The project design adapted best practice approaches for this kind of
environmental project taking into account the specificity of the Egyptian context. Project identification and
preparation benefited from a thorough exploration of alternatives and was guided by a comprehensive
National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP). Sub-projects' environmental impact assessments showed that
the intended investments would generate substantial benefits given the costs involved. The Bank's approach
focused on promoting a pilot approach based on integrated pollution prevention for managing localized
industrial pollution issues. Although, the project addressed both GOE's and the Bank's objectives to support
effective environmental management at the national and local levels, it did not, however, include the
monitoring of larger impacts on human health and the ambient environment.

The methodology used by the Bank was appropriate as it aligned GOE priorities with those of the Bank's
strategy for Egypt and the region. Furthermore, the project did allow for a flexible implementation
structure that allowed the Bank and the Borrower to make design improvements, as needed, based on
project objectives. As a result, risks affecting implementation were mitigated through TA and institutional
strengthening measures that were included in the design of the project. Project ownership by GOE was
progressively strengthened during implementation through the gradual integration of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). The PIU was staffed with young, well trained professionals under the guidance
of experienced consultants. The full-time international consultant hired under the Finnish funded component
was also very helpful in providing overall guidance on project management aspects as well as on technical
aspects. Another design feature of the project was the establishment of a steering committee responsible for
oversight of the project and clearance on key decisions on outstanding implementation issues.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Overall, the project achieved its development objectives and is rated as Satisfactory. The achievement
indicator for this objective is measured by the increased institutional capacity of the various participating
industrial enterprises, and administrative units involved in the development and implementation of
environmental planning, management, monitoring and enforcement instruments [See Annex 1,Tables 1-12].




                                                     - 5 -

Development Objectives

Assist GOE in reducing industrial pollution causing adverse health effects and/or ecological
degradation. This development objective has been achieved. EPAP achieved major emission reductions
through implementing 25 sub-projects in 21 companies financed by the Bank. [See Annex 1, Table 1 and
attached Map]. In addition, EPAP also provided TA to approximately 75 industrial facilities to identify
feasible projects for pollution abatement. As a result, more than half of these 21 companies implemented
their pollution abatement projects through financing from the Bank or other donors.

Strengthen the monitoring and enforcement capacity of the environmental institutions.                    This
development objective has been achieved. The project played a critical role in improving environmental
monitoring and the enforcement capacity of EEAA. As a resul, the participating EEAA units, the three
Regional Branch Offices (RBOs) of EEAA (Greater Cairo, West Delta and Suez Canal), and the EMUs of
the Cairo, Qualiubia, Alexandria and Suez Governorates have acquired the capacity to assume their legal
responsibilities in industrial environmental administration and management. Specifically, they improved
their capacity to: (i) carry out pollution inventories; (ii) carry out environmental inspections; and (iii)
implement enforcement policies. In addition, the project assisted in creating a dedicated unit for industrial
pollution control when the project closed, and in recognition for its acquired knowledge of the industrial
sector and its related pollution problems, the PIU was integrated into EEAA's organizational structure as
the new Industrial Unit. Other project achievements covered activities ranging from public awarness,
media and NGO involvements as noted in Annex 1, Tables 2 and 9.

Establish technical and financial mechanisms for supporting pollution abatement investments in
Greater Cairo, Alexandria and the Suez Canal Cities of Suez and Ismailia. This development objective
has been achieved. The project effectively completed the installation of pollution control technologies
within the targeted industries and assisted in reducing emissions through TA not only in the initial targeted
areas but in other geographic areas of Egypt. As a result, the participating enterprises acquired a
systematic and effective environmental self-monitoring system. Furthermore, the project helped in
establishing a sustainable financing mechanism which resulted in increasing capacity of the participating
banks. (See Annex 1, Tables 12 and 15).

Component Objectives

Technical and Institutional Support Component (TISC)

(a)     Strengthening the Capacity of EEAA branches and Governorates' EMUs: This component was
        successfully completed, achieved its objective and is therefore rated Satisfactory. The
        participating EEAA units, RBOs and EMUs have significantly improved their capacity to carry
        out their legal responsibilities related to industrial pollution control (See Section on outputs by
        component below for more details).

(b)     Development of PAAPs: The findings of the Mid-Term Review, (March 2001) showed that
        PAAPs were not an appropriate instrument for project's use and were therefore, replaced by
        CAPS which were completed and consequently this component is rated Satisfactory .Early project
        implementation showed that it was not practical to require enterprises to prepare comprehensive
        PAAPs. Only 12 PAAPs were produced as a direct output of EPAP. Of these 12, only 3 industrial
        enterprises achieved eligibility for subproject financing. It was, therefore, decided to discontinue
        this activity in 2001 due to the high cost and low efficiency in creating a realistic project pipeline.


                                                     - 6 -

         As a result, TISC then focused on developing environmental audits, cost/benefit analysis, and
         CAPs of the proposed sub-projects.

(c)      Support for Environmental Audit Programs: This component was successfully completed,
         achieved its objective and is therefore rated Satisfactory. EPAP had a major impact on the
         environmental audit program. Institutional capacity was established at all levels for conducting
         technical and professional environmental audits and environmental impact assessments.
         Beneficiary enterprises also strengthened their respective capacities to undertake independent
         in-house environmental audits [See Annex 1, Tables 11, 12 and 14].

(d)      Promoting Awareness and Media Education Programs: This component was successfully
         completed and is therefore rated Satisfactory. This objective was achieved through two-prong
         approach. The first approach was to improve the capacity of the media to acquire environmental
         information and publish it, while the second was to ensure that information on EPAP activities was
         efficiently produced and effectively disseminated [See Annex 1, Tables 17, 18 and 19].

Pollution Abatement Investment Component Objectives:

This component was successfully completed, achieved its objective and is therefore rated Satisfactory.
Although the objectives of the project did not measure specific impacts in terms of environmental quality
improvement, the financing of the selected sub-projects, completed, resulted in substantial emissions
reductions. As a consequence, 25 sub-projects benefitted directly from Bank financing and can be
distributed according to the following categories: 44% for air emissions, 26% for wastewater treatment,
22% for work environment, and 8% for solid waste management. [See Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2].

In addition, this component also benefited from EPAP's TISC, which provided technical services to about
75 industrial facilities in order to identify feasible pollution abatement projects. EPAP's TISC allowed
leveraging 47 environmental projects in 44 companies, financed through the Bank as well as through other
donors/financiers. These projects were distributed as follows: 32% for air emission control, 42.5% for
wastewater control, 21.25 % for work environment, and 4.25% for solid waste management.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Technical and Institutional Support Component (TISC)

The overall implementation performance for the institutional components of the project is rated as
satisfactory.

Impacts of the TISC: EPAP assisted in: (i) strengthening compliance with environmental legislation; (ii)
improving the institutional framework and administration to monitor emissions and abatement; and (iii)
increasing public and stakeholder awareness regarding environmental management: [See Annex 1, Tables
3-19].




                                                     - 7 -

Impacts of the Pollution Investment Abatement Component: [See Table 1 below]

The overall implementation performance for the physical components of the project is rated as
satisfactory.

               Table 1: Weighted Average of Emission Reduction in percent of baseline values

Emission/discharge Reductions for the 25 subprojects*                      Percentage
Work Environment (6 projects)                                                 69
Wastewater Projects (9 projects)                                               77
Air Pollution Projects (10 projects)                                          41

         * Specific and detailed data are in Annex 1, Table 2
         * In addition to the above, 2 projects (KOKI and EMISAL) had also reduced their solid waste
         discharges by 100%

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

As mentioned in the SAR, an economic analysis could not be undertaken as the project set out to finance an
undetermined number of sub-projects based on environmental criteria. Furthermore, given the pilot nature
of the project, performance and monitoring indicators were limited to emission reductions at the sub-project
level of the participating enterprises and were collected for the purpose of ensuring compliance with
environmental regulation. Moreover, many impacts of the project are qualitative in nature and as such can
be difficult to capture in economic terms, particularly without an appropriate monitoring and evaluation
framework. The project did, however, include a financial analysis for the investments. All the sub-projects
satisfied the eligibility criteria consisting of a payback period greater than 2 years, below which
sub-projects were considered attractive enough and not needing the incentive of the grant portion of the
financial package. This requirement was an attempt to avoid the "deadweight loss" situation where
companies would benefitted from the incentive provided where they would have invested in the project even
without the incentive. However, as reported by the participating commercial banks, several beneficiary
companies improved their overall managerial capabilities and built a goodwill that improved their credit
standing through their participation to EPAP.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Improved Inspection and Enforcement Capacity: EPAP has significantly improved the efficiency and
quality of industrial inspection. Implementation of GOE's enforcement policy [See Annex 1, Tables 4-7] of
Law No. 4/94 was greatly improved through the development of inspection procedures and preparation of
general and specific sector inspection guidelines, as well as through extensive training of the inspectors in
the technical and judicial aspects of industrial pollution. Because of these measures, there has been a
dramatic increase in the number and quality of planned industrial inspections. Furthermore, an Industrial
Unit has been created within EEAA [See Annex 1, Tables 8]. This structure is an important factor for the
sustainability of EPAP activities and for overseeing industrial activities within EEAA as well as with other
stakeholders.




                                                    - 8 -

Improved Legislation and Environmental Management within Industrial Enterprises: EPAP has had a
catalytic that helped incorporate lessons learned from the first years of environmental law implementation
that resulted in the (pending) modification of Law No. 4/94 in Egypt. At the same time, EEAA
incorporated appropriate softer enforcement approaches, including the concept of signing negotiated
agreements with non-complying industries, as another mechanism to encourage compliance. Environmental
management in industrial enterprises was also promoted through capacity building and technical knowledge
acquisition for environmental self-monitoring and pollution abatement. EPAP's participating enterprises
were directly assisted in preparing and implementing self-monitoring plans [See Annex 1, Tables 11 and
12].

Improved Knowledge and Technical Base: TISC also resulted in the establishment of an improved
capacity to develop a reliable information database for assessing industrial emissions, including the
preparation of industrial emissions inventories, pollution maps, cost of health degradation and pollution
abatement. Furthermore, the project also strengthened the technical capability of EEAA consulting partners
and has succeeded in building the capacity of local consultants by working closely with international
experts. EPAP also helped in the establishment of a training capacity program for environmental
management [Annex 1, Tables 9, 10 and 13] . Furthermore, there was an impact at the regional industrial
pollution management level, as illustrated by the fact that the Arab League has requested that technical
manuals from EPAP be disseminated to all Arab countries [See Annex 1, Table 14].

Improved Bank knowledge on environment project financing: The banks who participated in the project
have developed targeted strategies to market their financial instruments for environmental projects, and
other environmental investments that included process and technical upgrades that could result in increased
productivity and exports for the industrial sector [See Annex 1, Table 15].

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

During the course of project implementation, Egypt's macro-economic conditions had deteriorated, in
particular during the period 2000-2003. The Egyptian Pound was devaluated twice by a total of nearly
60% with respect to the dollar from L.E. 3.6 to L.E. 4.6 and then to L.E. 5.8. There was also a lack of
liquidity in the foreign exchange currency market. This created an overall economic atmosphere, which in
the short to medium term was not conducive to investments and in particular to environmental investments.
The macro-economic situation did, however, eventually improve in the course of 2004.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Factors constraining project implementation:

Project and financing constraints: In response to deteriorating economic conditions, GOE imposed tighter
restrictions on lending in foreign exchange. Such lending was limited to companies which could generate
revenues in foreign exchange and were able to repay their loans in dollars as banks were unwilling to take
any foreign exchange risks. The resulting effect was that enterprises chose to defer pollution control
investments despite the financial incentive. As a consequence, the segment of the market potentially eligible
for the EPAP package temporarily diminished, limiting the interventions to air and water pollution
abatement in public sector industries where EPAP was in unfavorable competition with other
donors-financed projects. By mid 2004, the economy started to recover, these constraints were significantly
relaxed and it became easier to close EPAP deals with financially viable eligible companies.



                                                     - 9 -

Limitation of the financing: Some enterprises did not elect to apply for EPAP financing because the
financing mechanism (i) did not cover civil works associated with the investment; and (ii) did not provide a
high enough grant portion provided by other donors. The financing mechanism grant allocation (20%) for
all eligible sub-projects was not as attractive as that offered by other donors in the market. Other donors
were providing up to 50 % grant for end-of-pipe treatment or a up to 25% grant for process technology.
However, it later proved that in the long run, the larger grant incentive was not as decisive for pipeline
building as the level of marketing effort which was strengthened during the implementation of the project.
As a result, EPAP showed much better performance in terms of pipeline building and eventually project
implementation as shown in Table 2 below.




                                                    - 10 -

      Table 2: Comparative disbursements and sub-projects pipeline for the Bank, EIB and KfW



EPAP Lending Institutions             2000       2001        2002        2003           2004      2005
                                                                US $ Million
World Bank ­ IDA
Loan/Credit Amount                      35.0         35.0       34.3       34.62        34.87     35.00
No. of sub-projects financed              4           11        14           15          22        25
Sub-projects disbursed                  1.87         16.2      16.39       18.60       22.652      35
Percentage of loan/credit amount        5.3           47        47.6       53.76        55.4      100
disbursed


European Investment Bank (EIB)
Loan/Credit Amount                      15.0         15.0       15.0          0           0         0
No. of sub-projects financed              1           1          2            0           0         0
Sub-projects disbursed                  4.8          4.8        5.33          0           0         0
Percentage of loan/credit amount         32           32        35.5          0           0         0
disbursed


KfW **
Loan/Credit Amount                      35.5         35.5      25.565     25.564        26.86       0
No. of sub-projects financed              8           19        23           24          25         0
Sub-projects disbursed                  14.3         18.0      12.625      8.511        11.54       0
Percentage of loan/credit amount         40          53.2       49.3       33.29         43         0
disbursed

* EIB's loan was cancelled as of March 2002 in the amount of US$9.67 million.
** KfW funds provided a 50% grant for end-of-pipe projects.

Financing Amounts for EIB and KfW were in Euros (from aide-memoires for the period 2002-2004)

Delay in the effectiveness of the PAF: Ratification by GOE on agreements pertaining to the PAF took 12
months.

Delay in Loan and Credit effectiveness: Effectiveness was delayed by 12 months due a delay in the
ratification of the Loan/Project Agreements by GOE.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

EEAA was proactive in providing TA to enterprises and participating banks in the area of procurement
procedures, sub-project preparation and disbursements.

Factors generally subject to the contractor's control: Not Applicable

Procurement: The most salient feature of the procurement arrangements for the project was to allow the
use of "normal commercial practices" by purchasers (private enterprises participating in the project or


                                                    - 11 -

public companies operating under commercial law) and was not required to follow the borrower's public
procurement procedures. Two notable events occurred during project implementation: (i) the requirement
for public enterprises to follow the Bank's procurement guidelines imposed following the MTR in March
2001, based on an incorrect interpretation of a newly introduced Public Procurement Law (89/1998). This
requirement was later repealed; and (ii) the occasional restrictive interpretation of the degree of deviation
from Bank guidelines allowed under the above practices, later resolved by the review and clarifications by
the Bank in June 2003. In spite of this, the PIU's performance regarding procurement issues can be
considered satisfactory, given the limited support and guidance initially available from the Bank, the delay
in providing formal procurement training to PIU staff and the general resistance to change by the
participating enterprises.

Although two sample companies were assessed during project preparation, and their commercial practices
were found overall to be acceptable to the Bank, this did not allow the PIU to have a clear view of its role
in assessing the compliance of enterprises in terms of procurement. The Bank tackled this issue as soon as
it proved to be a barrier for sub-project preparation. Procurement specialists from the Bank's Resident
Office in Cairo as well as from Headquarters were called upon, during the course of several supervision
missions, to provide proper review and guidance to the PIU.

The procurement function was carried out with due diligence. All contracts relative to the sub-projects
were reviewed on a post-review basis, as none exceeded the US$5.0 million established as threshold for
prior review, and no major procurement issues were reported.

5.4 Costs and financing:

At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US$48.7 million equivalent, including a foreign
exchange cost of US$40.7 million representing 83.5% of the total cost. At completion, the actual cost of
the project was US$54.69 million equivalent, of which US$35.0 million was foreign exchange cost and
US$19.69 million local currency. This local currency cost increase was due to L.E. devaluation of the
Egyptian Pound vis-à-vis the US dollar during the implementation phase of the project (from 3.40 to 5.85
at closing). The actual cost of the 25 sub-projects, including civil works, transportation and taxes
(representing an average of 26% of total cost) that were self-financed by the enterprises, reached a total of
US$55 million. Contribution of the enterprises, estimated initially at US$4.0 million,reached US$20
million. This actually justified a posteriori the choice of the 20% grant component of the sub-loans as by
design this was estimated to be the cost that the companies would have to carry [See Annex 2- Tables 4 and
5] for enabling the project to proceed (customs, civil works, and other associated costs).

Financing: The financing mechanism set up for the project was based on a US$20 million Bank Loan to
the GOE via the National Investment Bank (NIB) and a US$15 million IDA Credit via the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs that became the Ministry of International Cooperation in 2004, which subsequently on-lent
it to NIB. Furthermore, NIB then on-lent to the National Bank of Egypt (NBE), the largest commercial
Bank in Egypt acting as the Apex Bank for the project and thus took up the overall risk for the project
including the credit risk as well as the foreign exchange risk for sub-loans extended to eligible companies.
NBE then passed agreements with two private sector participating banks, National Société Générale and
Commercial International Bank. [See Annex 2, Table 5]. The original feature of EPAP was the nature of
the financial package proposed to eligible companies. Each sub-projects was financed through a
pre-calculated mix of IBRD Loan and IDA Credit, the difference in maturity and interest rates between the
resources made available to the banks and the sub-loans extended to eligible companies allowed the Apex
Bank to provide a 20% grant (as a waiver on the total amount due) upon review and clearance of project
performance by the PIU. Other funding for the project was provided through a US$5.7 million grant from



                                                    - 12 -

GOF to finance the technical and institutional component.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

This ICR rates the sustainability of the project as Likely. The policy framework and components put in
place by the project and current GOE initiatives will ensure the sustainability of project outputs in
Pollution Abatement in particular, and Environmental Management in general. The project has clearly
contributed to the strengthening of the institutional, financial and technical environmental management
framework. Compliance with environmental regulations has been enforced and industrial operators and
enterprises are mainstreaming environmental management into their activities. The parameters of
sustainability can be summarized as follows: (i) an institutional framework capable of developing and
improving environmental policies and regulations for the benefit of all stakeholders; (ii) an upgraded
monitoring and enforcement system; (iii) a financing mechanism based on the participation of public and
private banks, geared to provide adequate financing, including grants, for environmental management
projects selected through a flexible and proven system of eligibility; (iv) ongoing public and media
awareness activities that complement the institutional policies; (v) the establishment of a Environmental
Protection Fund (EPF) that should be able to finance environmental projects (not only industrial pollution
abatement) through soft loans. Furthermore, GOE has set up mechanisms to ensure appropriate flow of
funds in EPF and plans to expand its activities using EPAP's mechanisms. In addition, EPF has signed
agreements with four commercial banks about co-financing environmental investments in the industrial
sector, with EPF providing an interest rate subsidy.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Not applicable.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Identification, preparation and appraisal

In view of the scope and importance of the project, preparation and appraisal are assessed as
Satisfactory. Formal appraisal took place in December 1995. The Bank allocated adequate resources for
project preparation and for its assistance with donor coordination. Satisfactory project preparation had
been also initiated by the other donors leading to continued cooperation to project completion. The Bank
mobilized a Policy and Human Resources Development Fund (PHRD) Grant from Japan and an Italian
trust fund to finance project preparation and appraisal. The Grant was utilized for the identification and
preparation of initial pipeline projects for the investment component. In addition, environmental audits were
also prepared in order to identify potential pollution abatement projects. The project was presented twice to
the Board due to a change of counterparts in the meanwhile, and a request from the client to revisit the
question of the borrowing entity. The SAR was redrafted and submitted a second time to the board on
December 1997. The Loan and Credit were finally effective after an additional 12 month delay in January
1999.




                                                      - 13 -

7.2 Supervision:

Overall project supervision of the project was Satisfactory, with 12 missions in the six years between
preparation and closure,    the Bank's performance had improved considerably by MTR review and
coordination with other lenders was satisfactory and, collaboration with the Finnish co-financier was
exemplary. Although there were minor changes in the team leadership of the project, continuity of
supervision quality was ensured as Bank staff showed flexibility and understanding in responding to
evolving circumstances. Overall, Bank teams were well staffed with a good skill mix. Management and
staff maintained strong continuity in the dialogue with GOE and a productive coordination with the PIU
and the participating banks. Delayed project effectiveness mentioned above as well as a period of adverse
overall economic downturn made project extension necessary. The closing date for the Bank Loan and IDA
credit was extended from September 30, 2003 to March 30, 2005.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank's overall performance is assessed to have been Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance was satisfactory on project identification, preparation and appraisal.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The performance of GOE was Satisfactory. Although there was an initial delay due to time required for
ratification of the Loan and Project Agreements by GOE/Parliament, there was a strong willingness and
commitment on the part of the Borrower to keep the project on track. Given the delays in the project, the
Borrower acted and responded within a reasonable time frame, to comply with all implementation
conditions as project completion objectives dictated. GOE also made a timely request for the extension of
the Loan's closing date.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

This ICR assesses the performance of the implementing agency as Satisfactory. EEAA was able to
assume full ownership of the project's operations through a steering committee chaired by the Chief
Executive Officer of EEAA. The project's PIU was responsible for managing both the TA and the
investment component. The PIU was supported by a full-time international expert as well as by part-time
consultants financed under the TISC component financed by the GOF. TISC helped in strengthening the
supervision and management skills of EEAA staff. The PIU made sustained efforts in order to implement
this project and managed its implementation with sufficient due diligence. The PIU addressed all
implementation issues in its progress reports and collaborated with the Bank and TISC consultants in order
to find solutions to any problems. Substantial efforts were made by the PIU to establish internal
coordination mechanisms including procurement, disbursement monitoring and processing for satisfactory
project implementation. It also continued to work very closely with EEAA inspection units, RBOs, EMUs
and the environment quality department of EEAA in order to identify non compliant companies. Such
collaboration between the various enforcement units and the PIU should continue well into the future.




                                                   - 14 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The performance of the Borrower is assessed as Satisfactory, given the ownership of the project by GOE
and the close involvement of all institutions concerned. Institutional and management changes as well as
capacity building measures have contributed to the improvement of Borrower's ownership of the project.
This has resulted in the development of a better institutional structure (EEAA and all of its regional units,
and participating Banks) that contributed to better project implementation and the achievement of project
objectives.

8. Lessons Learned

·       On partnership: The combination of the Bank's financing package of an IBRD loan and an IDA
        Credit with a technical and institutional support component financed through a grant from the GOF
        has been a successful strategy.

·       On the "carrot and stick" approach used: The focus on inspection and enforcement balanced the
        soft loan provided to the end-users in a way that took into account the prevailing conditions during
        project preparation. In the Bank's follow-on project, EPAP2, it would be appropriate to focus more
        significantly on the enforcement function.

·       On the flexible design of the project: The flexibility of the design allowed the project to survive
        external shocks through corrective measures that were still consistent with the overall project
        objective and with the demonstrative nature (pilot) of the project. However, any future projects
        should probably be more results oriented in terms of environmental improvement objectives.

·       On stakeholder awareness: Involving training institutions and industrial organizations in the
        project has been essential in attracting high numbers of participants and in ensuring sustainability
        and wide dissemination of experience gained. Duplicate training activities have been avoided due
        to effective coordination between donor projects, EEAA concerned department, and EPAP.

·       On EPAP as a vehicle for dialogue with the GOE: Implementation of the financing mechanism
        has resulted in a growing interest from the participating banks (NIB, NBE, CIB, and NSGB) to
        participate in the follow-on project, EPAP2. NBE, CIB and NSGB were active in marketing the
        loan and NBE willingness to develop environmental financing was evident through the
        establishment of an environmental department. The success of EPAP can be measured through the
        keenness of the Ministry of Environment, as well as the Apex bank in particular to replicate and
        build on EPAP's experience. A request has now been sent to the Bank by the GOE to prepare a
        follow up EPAP II project.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Borrower's Project Completion Report is provided in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:

The Co-Lender's Completion Report is provided in Annex 9.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                    - 15 -

Not applicable.

10. Additional Information


l Mission Aide-Memoires
l Project Status Reports/Implemention Status Reports on file
l Descriptive list of sub-projects on file
l Case Summary Notes of Investment Component
l Full report of Borrower's contribution on file




                                                - 16 -

            Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                 Table 1: Pollution Abatement Sub-project Investment: Environmental Benefits and
                                                                    Impacts

    Company       Project Name                             Environmental Benefits                               Impacts
      Name
 Abu Kir          Reduction of nitrogen oxides       Reduction of NOx from the             Prevent the damage of the agriculture craps in
 Fertilizers      stack in emissions from the Nitric emissions of the Nitric Acid Plant to the surrounding area from the emissions of the
                  Acid Plant                         comply with the Environmental Law     NOx emissions. protect the workers from
                                                     4 of 1994- Protection of workers      exposure of NOx emissions.
                                                     health.
 El Nasr Electric Conversion of TL and TLD           Reduction of mercury emission from    Protect the exposing of 25 workers from
 and Electronic   Production lines from Mercury      the Fluorescent Factory to comply     mercury emission which is carcinogenic.
 Apparatus        Dosing to Argon Flushing           with work environment regulations
 (NEEASAE)                                           of Law 4 of 1994 (mercury · 0.05
                                                     mg/m3). Protection of workers
                                                     health.
 Transport &      Conversion of the manual tire      Reduction of air emissions due to     Protect 10 workers from exposure of the VOC
 Engineering      spraying process to automatic      the volatility of the spraying        emission which is hazardous emission (heptane
 Company          process                            materials. Improving work             and benzene).
 (TRENCO)                                            environment and protection of
                                                     workers health.
                                                     Improving the efficiency of the
                                                     spraying process.
Goldentex         Wastewater treatment plant         Reduction of COD, BOD, T.S.S. and Improve the quality of the wastewater that is
Company for                                          residual color from the effluent to   discharge to the sanitary sewer.
Spinning                                             comply with the Environmental Law
                                                     4 of 1994 and Law 93 of 1962
                                                     modified by the Ministerial decree 4
                                                     of 2000.
Egyptian Plastic  Collection System for the acid     Reduction of acid fugitive vapors in  Protect of workers' health(15 workers per
and Electric      fugitive vapor and vapor fumes     work environment of the recharging    shift, 2 shifts per day) from the acid vapors
Company (EPEC) treatment in the formation yard in    unit to comply with environmental     emissions.
                  the battery factory                laws. Improving work environment
                                                     and protection of workers health.
Misr for          Fume treatment ­ Dry process       Complete recovery of fluorides by     Protecting the ambient environment from
Aluminum                                             using the adsorption of alumina.      harmful gases (Hydrogen fluoride, carbon
(EgyptAlum)                                          Saving of raw materials (Cryolite,    monoxide, carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide).
                                                     Aluminum hydroxide, Caustic soda,     Resulting from the aluminum extraction
                                                     and Sodium carbonate).                process.
                                                     Reducing gas emissions from the       Improving the environmental and health
                                                     aluminum production cells by 99.8% conditions for about 150 workers that
                                                     (Hydrogen fluoride, carbon            exposed directly to the gases emissions.
                                                     monoxide, carbon dioxide, sulphur
                                                     dioxide).
                                                     Saving of water which was used
                                                     previously in the wet process
                                                     Reducing energy consumption.




                                                                        - 17 -

Cairo Poultry   Wastewater treatment plant.      Reduction of COD, BOD, T.S.S.,         Improve the quality of the wastewater to reused
(KOKI)                                           total nitrogen (TKN), phosphates       it in horticulture use (30 feddan) instead of
                                                 (PO4) and oil & grease from the        discharging to nearby land desert thus saving
                                                 effluent to comply with the            water & protecting the environment.
                                                 Environmental Law 4 of 1994 and
                                                 Law 93 of 1962 modified by the
                                                 Ministerial decree 4 of 2000.
                                                 Reusing the treated water for
                                                 horticulture use (30 feddan) instead
                                                 of discharging to nearby land desert
                                                 thus saving water & protecting the
                                                 environment.
                                                 Separation of solid waste (feather,
                                                 intestines & fats) & cooking it to
                                                 produce a concentrated fodder.

The Egyptian     Washing and distillation of     Management and making benefits         Protection of the marine biology of Karoun
Salts and        Sodium Chloride salt.           from the accumulated Sodium            Lake by reducing its salinity through
Minerals                                         Chloride heaps.                        drawing of solutions from Karoun Lake &
Company                                          Production of salts for industrial and Protection of the fish resources.
(EMISAL)                                         human use.
Delta Company    Replacement of high pressure    Reducing of ammonia emissions to       Protecting the ambient environment from the
for fertilizers  stripper and condenser in the   the ambient environment.               gaseous emissions
                 urea unit B.                    Reducing of ammonia loads              Protecting the Nile River from liquid
                                                 discharged to the wastewater.          discharges of ammonia.
                                                 Saving of energy.                      It will improve the quality of the wastewater
                                                 Reducing noise to a permissible        that discharge to the Nile River due to
                                                 level.                                 ammonia loads discharged to the wastewater.
                                                 Reducing losses in raw material.
                                                 Increasing the process efficiency.
                                                 Preventing equipment explosion
El Nasr          Completion of the wet scrubbing Reduction of ammonium nitrate          Prevent the disturbance of the power station
Company for      recovery unit & recycling of    dust to comply with Environmental      from Amm. Nitrate emission & prevent
fertilizers &    ammonium nitrate dumped         Law 4/1994.                            Exposing the workers (30 workers) working in
Chemical         product.                        Protection of workers' health and      the plant.
Industries                                       improvement of the work                Protecting the ambient environment.
(Semadco)                                        environment.
                                                 Recycle about 15 ton / day dumped
                                                 Ammonium Nitrate product back to
                                                 the process.




                                                                  - 18 -

Tanta for Oil &   Reduction of hexane emissions in     Reduction of the hexane emission     Protect the exposing of 60 workers from hexane
Soap              oil extraction unit by installation  from the oil extraction plant to     emissions. Every year about 20 to 25 workers
                  of a new toaster unit.               comply with Environmental Law 4      were reported to suffer from symptoms of
                                                       of 1994.                             intoxication by hexane.
                                                       Reduction of the hexane
                                                       consumption from 12 kg/ton to 5.6
                                                       kg/ton.
                                                       Improvement of the product quality
                                                       and Prevention of decay of the
                                                       fodder due to high moisture
                                                       content.
                                                       Improvement of the work
                                                       environment and protection of the
                                                       workers' health.
General           Installation of new sanitary         Increasing of the energy efficiency. Protecting the ambient environment from the
company for       furnace working with NG instead      Improvement of working               gases emissions.
ceramics and      of two working with solar.           atmosphere conditions
porcelain
Kafr El-Zayat for Improving the work environment      Reduction of hydrocarbons, phospho    Protect the exposing of 75 workers from
pesticides        inside the factory (replacing       organic compounds, organic solvent    organic solvent emission, health problems
                  bottling line, and installing       emissions in work environment to      in the existing bottling line. Although all
                  de-dusting unit in agricultural     comply with the limits of environment workers in this department wear breathing
                  sulfur unit.                        Law 4/94.                             masks, the effectiveness of this protective
                                                      Improve work environment              measure is rather limited as evidenced by
                                                      Protection of worker's health.        the workers' high blood level of pesticides.
                                                                                            Toxic vapor emissions and leakages
                                                                                            occurred in this unit exposing about 75
                                                                                            workers to serious health problems.
Arma food         Replacement of the bleaching         Prevention of bleaching dust         Protection of 18 workers from the silica
industries        unit.                                emission which is mainly silica      emission which is carcinogenic.
company                                                dust.
                                                       Reduction of the seriously health
                                                       hazards to which workers are
                                                       exposed.
                                                       Reduction of the raw material loss
                                                       by the manual feeding.
                  Installation of indirect cooling     Decrease oil and grease              Improve the quality of the wastewater that is
                  system.                              contamination in the recycled water  discharge to the sanitary sewer.
                                                       resulting in the direct. Contact
                                                       between the water & the oil.
                                                       Decrease the water consumption.




                                                                        - 19 -

Suez for      Upgrading of kiln/raw mills, and   Reduction of dust emission of        Protecting the ambient environment from the
Cement        bypass electrostatic precipitators by-pass (968 t/a for Suez factory    dust emissions.
              and conditioning towers and        and 1300 t/a for Quattamia factory)
              installation of dust suctions      to comply with the Environmental
              systems.                           LawNno. 4/1994 and the
                                                 international limits. The company
                                                 is preparing for the expected
                                                 tightening of the limits of Law No.
                                                 4/94 for dust emissions from 500
                                                 mg/m3 to 50 mg/m3.
                                                 Achievement of stable operating
                                                 temperatures at the Gas
                                                 Conditioning Towers (GCT) up
                                                 outlet not higher than 140 C avoid
                                                 any kind of dusts build inside
                                                 (GCT).
Arma food     Instillation of chemical oil       Reduction of the organic load to the Improve the quality of the wastewater that is
industries    refining unit for edible oil       wastewater treatment plant to        discharge to the sanitary sewer.
company                                          comply with law 93 /1962 and the
                                                 ministerial decree 44/2000 for
                                                 discharging to the public sewer
                                                 system.
                                                 Reduction of loss of product oil &
                                                 the soap stock to wastewater.
                                                 Reduction of chemical consumption

                                                 Better quality of oil & soap as
                                                 by-product.
                                                 Decrease the water consumption.
Alex. Sodium  Building new limekiln furnace      Reduction of dust and gases          Protection of 45 workers from the dust and
Carbonate Co.                                    emissions to comply with             gases emissions which is carcinogenic.
                                                 Environmental Law No. 4 of 1994
                                                 Protection of worker's health.
                                                 Reduction of un-planed stops, and
                                                 maintenance periods
                                                 Reduction of raw and products
                                                 losses.
                                                 Improvement of products.
                                                 Increasing the process efficiency.
Al Ahram      Instillation of waste water        Reduction of BOD, COD, TSS,          Improve the quality of the wastewater that is
beverage      treatment plant & in-plant         TDS, to comply with limits of law    discharge to the sanitary sewer.
              modification                       48/1982 for discharging effluent to
                                                 agricultural drain.
                                                 Reducing pollution load through
                                                 point source treatment and in-plant
                                                 modifications.




                                                                  - 20 -

Egyptian        Install new sulfuric acid          Prevent Corrosion problem causes      Protection of about 2workers per shift (3 shift
Petrochemical   concentration unit                 frequent leakage causes fugitive      per day ) from sulfuric acid vapors and chlorine
Co.                                                emissions of chlorine and sulfuric    vapors with very harmful effect on the health.
                                                   acid vapors in the working
                                                   environment.
                                                   The current disposal of around 700
                                                   ton/year of dilute H2SO4 into
                                                   sewer in addition to corrosion
                                                   problems in the internal sewer
                                                   system. System contributes to the
                                                   sulfate content and TDS, in
                                                   addition to lowering the PH
                                                   increase the pollution load on the
                                                   WWTP in the company.
                                                   Because of attack of the concrete
                                                   sewer system by sulfuric acid
                                                   wastes a considerable portion of the
                                                   acid infiltrates into the soil
                                                   contaminating the groundwater.
                                                   The transportation of concentrated
                                                   sulfuric acid & the spent dilute
                                                   sulfuric acid represents a hazardous
                                                   risk.
Al Ahram metals Installation of Ventilation System Improvement of the foundry and        Protection of about 4workers per shift (3
Co                                                 electroplating area & Painting area   shifts per day) heavy metal fumes.
                                                   work condition,                       Protection of about 7 workers per shift (3
                                                   Cleaner production substitution shall shifts per day) Epoxy Polyester as
                                                   eradicate the amount to produce       particulates.
                                                   sludge from the chemical process,     Protection of about 9 workers per shift (3
                                                   minimize harmful emissions and        shifts per day) NaOH , HCl, SO2 , SO3,
                                                   alleviate environmental problem.      HCN, No, No2, Cn & Cr fumes.
                                                   Reduce the harmful chemical fumes
                                                   effects in the electroplating area.
                                                   Collecting the fumes of zinc and lead
                                                   oxides & collecting Paint particulate.




                                                                     - 21 -

 Semadco       Installation of nitric acid pumps, Protection of worker's health by       Protection of worker's health by decreasing the
               tail gas pre-heater, cooler        decreasing the workers exposure to     workers exposure to NOx fumes due to leakage
               condenser & control                NOx fumes due to leakage of nitric     of nitric acid (about 15 workers are exposed
               instrumentation in the nitric acid acid.                                  directly to such emission)
               plants                             water emissions will be reduced to     water emissions will be reduced to nil, if
                                                  nil, if leakage of acid to the cooling leakage of acid to the cooling water circuit is
                                                  water circuit is prevented             prevented and it will improve the quality of the
                                                  Improved cooling will result in        wastewater that discharge to the sanitary sewer.
                                                  lower NOx emissions to bring the
                                                  concentration from about (5740 -
                                                  3500 mg/m3) to the design value of
                                                  about 2500 mg/m3 (limit of the
                                                  law, 3000 mg/m3).
                                                  Improved instrumentation will
                                                  improve the using of raw material
                                                  and the energy efficiency.
Cairo Poultry  Upgrading of solid waste recycling Reducing the solid waste resulting     Protect the surrounding area from the organic
(KOKI)         (cookers)                          from the production process            solid waste.
MAC            Installation of Automatic system   Recycling of thickener materials       Improve the quality of the wastewater that is
               for recycling of thickener         Reducing pollution load (COD) from     discharge to the sanitary sewer.
               material & installation of filter  printing unit that will be discharged
               press                              to the wastewater treatment to
                                                  comply with law 93/62.
                                                  Reduce corrosion.




                                                                    - 22 -

                Table 2: Performance Indicators - Environmental Impact of Sub-projects

Work Environment
      Project                Indicators             Load before       Load after      Reduction %
TRENCO              Heptane                             10.8t/y        0.27 t/y         97%
EPEC                Sulphuric acid                      0.21 t/y       0.01 t/y         95%
NEEASAE             Mercury                             0.4 t/y           0 t/y         100%
Tanta for oil and   Hexane emissions                    400 t/y         133 t/y         66%
soap
Ahram Metals Co.    Painting Area:
                    PM10                             52.4 Kg./y       24.96 Kg./y        52%
                    TSP                             139.8 Kg./y       49.9 Kg./y         64%
                    Electroplating area:
                    HCI
                    HNO3                             5406 Kg./y            Nil          100%
                    H2SO4                            4325 Kg./y       270.3 Kg./y        93%
                    TSP                               7569 kg/y            Nil          100%
                    PM10                             14056 kg/y       5406 Kg/y          61%
                                                      5676 kg/y       2703 Kg/y          52%
Kafer ElZayat       The liquid pesticide &
Pesticides          phaspho manufacturing plant:
                                                         0.56            0.005           97%
                    Malathione                           0.48            0.001           98%

                    Diazinon
                    Work environment on
                    Agro-sulphur packaging:                                13            80%

                    Dust Emission (TSP)                   65              9.56           60%

                    PM10                                  24


Wastewater
      Project            Indicators          Load before          Load after        Reduction %
Goldentex                  COD                 87.775 t/y          17.025 t/y          80%
                           BOD                 64.125 t/y          11.25 t/y           82%
                          O & G                 24.15 t/y          0.825 t/y           96%
Koki                       TSS                  0.98 t/y            0.03 t/y           96%
                           COD                  2.433 t/y           0.09 t/y           96%
                           BOD                  1.05 t/y           0.012 t/y           98%
                           O & G                0.33 t/y              --               100%
                            PO4                0.0112 t/y             --               100%
                       Total Nitrogen           0.027 t/y          0.021 t/y           22%
El-Delta Fertilizers
Stripper
                           NH3                  3970 t/y             (nil)             100%
Arma (III)                 TDS                  4.28 t/y            2.92 t/y          32%
Refining plant             COD                  6.657 t/y           4.05 t/y          39%
                           BOD                  2.36 t/y           1.015 t/y          57%
                          O & G                 0.076 t/y           0.01 t/y          87%




                                                  - 23 -

      Project          Indicators        Load before    Load after    Reduction %
Ahram Beverage            TSS              657 t/y       43.8 t/y        42%
                          TDS             2920 t/y       43.8 t/y        98%
                          BOD             1576.8 t/y     73 t/y          95%
                         COD              1795.8 t/y    1460 t/y         18%
                         O & G             292 t/y       7.3 t/y         97%
Arma (II)                  SS             614.4 t/y       Nil           100%
Cooling System           COD              3072.6 t/y      Nil
                          BOD             1320 t/y        Nil
                         O & G            791.7 t/y       Nil
Arma (I)           Oil content in the      89.1 t/y     74.25 t/y       16%
Replacement of           sludge
Bleaching Unit
Semadco (II)      Plate cooler and acid    3175 t/y       Nil           100%
Nitric Acid Leaks re-circulation pumps

                                          262.5 t/y       Nil           100%
                  High pressure cooler
                       condenser
                                          472.5 t/y       Nil           100%
                   Concentrated acid
                         pumps
Egyptian                  TDS             288218 t/y    7008 t/y        75%
Petrochemicals            TSS              3511 t/y      210 t/y        94%
                         Sulfates          4597 t/y       Nil          100%
                            Cl            11300 t/y       Nil          100%
Misr America              TSS              1980 t/y      720 t/y       64 %
Carpets Co.               BOD              1305 t/y      540 t/y       59 %
                          COD              4950 t/y      990 t/y       80 %




                                             - 24 -

Air Pollution
Project             Indicators          Load before    Load after   Reduction %
Abu Kir                    NOx            550 t/y       55 t/y         90%
Semadco              Ammonium nitrate     180 t/y       50 t/y         72%
Chini                       CO             9 t/y        2.89t/y        81%
                           CH4            0.14t/y       0. 01/y        67%
                           NOx           9.12 t/y      1.629t/y        42%
                           SOx            6.4 t/y      0.068t/y        97%
                           CO2           3374 t/y      1764 t/y        24%
Misr for Aluminum          HF             140 t/y       58.8 t/y       42%
                          SO2             220 t/y       20 t/y         90%
                           Dust          1150 t/y       989 t/y        86%
                           Tar            55 t/y         (nil)        100%
El-Delta fertilizers
Stripper
Condenser                  NH3           1980 t/y        (nil)        100%
                           NH3            660 t/y        (nil)
Suez for Cement        By pass dust:
                        Suez plant        240 t/y       55 t/y         77%
                     Quattamia plant      984 t/y       250 t/y        74%
Semadco (II)               NOx           821.1 t/y      385 t/y        49%




                                            - 25 -

 Semadco (II)                 NOx                   821.1 t/y                385 t/y                 49%
Alex, Sod.              Limestone dust              61.12 t/y               25.02 t/y                 60%
Carbonate Co.              Lime dust                34.9 t/y                 9.1 t/y                  73%
                           Ammonia                  2100 t/y                1040 t/y                  50%
                        Carbon dioxide             47626 t/y                36920 t/y                 33%
Ahram Metals Co.             PM10                 46.78 Kg./y             26.28 Kg/y                   43
                              TSP                  63.8 Kg./y             52.56 Kg/y                   17
                               CO                   2023 t/y                262.8 t/y                 87
                              SO2                   25.75 t/y               10.51 t/y                  60
                              NO2                   60.44 t/y               15.77 t/y                  73




 Compound                                           CO           CH4             NOx            SOx          CO2

Emission loads, tons/year       Before Project        9           0.14            9.12           6.4         3374
                                After Project                     0.01           1.629         0.068         1764



Solid Waste

 Project           Indicators                Load before             Load after              Reduction %
EMISAL                Sodium chloride            180,000 t/y #            -15,000 t/y*

KOKI                Slaughterhouse waste           24.325 t/y                  Nil                   100%



_______________________
* Before the project 180,000 t/a of unpurified sodium chloride salt was accumulated in dumping piles. After the
project the company has the capacity to purify the total annual harvest of this salt and in addition extract 15,000
t/a from the old storage piles.




                                                      - 26 -

         Table 3: Activities and Outputs Related to Pollution Inventories (as part of the TISC)

               Activities                                        Outputs
Application of Decision Support System       Report
software in Shoubra El Kheima
Emission inventory of 100 industrial sources Report
in Alexandria and Suez                       Article in EPAP newsletter
Evaluation of Alex emission inventory        Evaluation report
                                             Recommendations for future efforts
South Cairo emission inventory              Field data of about 70 industrial sites in Access
                                            database.
                                            Info meeting for industry.
                                            Info meeting for administration.
                                            Emission inventory report.
                                            Dispersion model and pollution maps of the
                                            inventory results.
                                            Report: Cost of health impact of industrial
                                            pollution.
                                            Emission factors for selected industrial sectors.
                                            Report: Cost of pollution abatement in selected
                                            sectors.
                                            Executive summary of results and data show
                                            presentations.
                                            Lectures about emission loads at FEI workshops
                                            for industry.
 Emission inventory training module         Key staff of EEAA Dept for Environmental
                                            Quality and three RBOs trained to update and use
                                            Emission Inventory methodology and results




                                                   - 27 -

           Table 4: Activities Directly Related to Environmental Inspection Capabilities

               Activities                                        Outputs
Baseline study                          Baseline study report EPAP/INST.
Follow-up study                         Needs assessment report EPAP/INST.
                                        On-the-job training needs identified.
Purchasing and delivering equipment to Pick-up cars supplied to 4 EMUs.
EMUs and RBOs                           Field inspection equipment delivered to 3 RBOs and 4
                                        EMUs.
                                        Office equipment delivered to 4 EMUs (annex 8).
Training of EMUs and RBOs (included     Training events implemented ( annex 7)
also EEAA inspection unit)              Training modules handed over to EEAA.
Support in preparing annual inspection  Training module implemented to improve motivation for
plan                                    planning, and to develop a mutual understanding of the
                                        contents of an annual plan.
                                        Draft for annual plan was prepared with West Delta
                                        RBO/EMU as a pilot.
Collecting policy proposals from        Inspectors were encouraged to analyze the policy
inspection units                        constraints in their work.
Preparing an enforcement policy         Policy conclusions and recommendations were presented
workshop                                and approved by EEAA leadership.
                                        Memo of policy workshop.
Producing inspection manuals            General inspection manual.
                                        Sector specific inspection manuals for 16 industrial
                                        sectors or sub-sectors.
                                        Cross-cutting inspection manuals for Hazardous waste,
                                        industrial wastewater and industrial energy generation.
Evaluation of inspection manuals        Evaluation reports.
                                        Involvement of inspectors in developing manuals.
                                        Amendments and improvements in draft manuals.
Manuals for laboratory authorization    Report.
                                        Report.
                                        Draft Protocol between Ministry of Industry and Ministry
                                        of State For Environmental Affairs.




                                                - 28 -

                                  Table 5: EEAA Inspection Activities

EEAA Inspection Unit        April-  January-     July-    December ­   July-   December   July 2004-
Activity                   December   June    November.      June     November  2003-      January
                            2001      2002       2002        2003      2003    June 2004    2005
No. of inspected            86         332      218          688        933      350         825
establishments
No. of complying            18          84       16          55         79        56         114
establishments
Requests to comply           2         187       61          229        275      294         458
Nb of Enterprises            2         187       61          229        275      294         458
benefiting from grace
period from EEAA
Nb. of Enterprises still in 43         294      166          633        854      294         721
Court
Nb of enterprises fined by   3          0                                3        7          34
court




                                               - 29 -

        Table 6: Percentage Increase in Planned Inspection Activities in Comparison to 2000/2001



                            Industrial     Industrial        Industrial         % Increase in
                             Planned        Planned            Planned        Planned Activities
                          Inspection in   Inspection in     Inspection in        compared to
                            1997/1998      2000/2001         2002/2003            2000/2001
Alexandria EMU                0                4                  46                 1050
Suez EMU                      0               25                  43                  72
Qaliubia EMU                  0               30                  40                  33
Suez Canal RBO          Not available          5                  79                 1480
West Delta RBO          Not available         25                 123                 392
Greater Cairo RBO             0                5                 154                 2980
Cairo EMU                     0               100                230                 130
Inspection Department   Not available         170                302                  77




                                                  - 30 -

                            Table 7: Activities Related to Enforcement Policies

                     Activities                                                  Outputs
Developing the concept of Pollution Abatement       PAAP contents as a prerequisite for WB financing
Action Plan (PAAP)                                  PAAP report for twelve major companies:
Producing PAAPs to major polluters                  ( annex 5)
Developing concept of Compliance Action Plan        CAP as an instrument for step-wise compliance and instrument
Producing model CAPs                                for acquiring a grace period.
Reviewing CAPs submitted to EEAA                    Three model CAPs
Information events about CAP                        Review report of submitted CAPs.
                                                    Proposal on guidelines for gasoline station CAP.
Developing the concept of Governorate Industrial Report of the GIPAP approach proposals.
Pollution Action Plan GIPAP
Planning and implementation of training of          Two days training module for judges in collaboration with the
judges.                                             Training center for juridical studies. One training activity was
                                                    delivered in Alex., two in Cairo and another one in Isamilia
Facilitating an efficient division of tasks between Memo of proposing division of tasks between RBO/EMU to OSP.
RBOs and EMUs.                                      Draft protocol for cooperation between MSEA, Ministry of Local
                                                    Development and EEAA/RBO/EMU.
                                                    Promoting efficient coordination through integrated training
                                                    events with RBOs/EMUs.
Supporting EEAA in Cleaner Production Policy.       CP seminar during Environment 2001 conference.
Promoting CP training and awareness.                CP aspects in inspection manuals.
                                                    CP presentations at 3 conferences and CP article in EPAP
                                                    newsletter.
                                                    Framework for CP Strategy.
                                                    Establishment of an inter-ministerial CP committee.
                                                    CP Strategy and Action Plan approved by inter-ministerial
                                                    committee in May 2004.
                                                    CP policy seminar in May 2004.
                                                    CP related amendments to Executive Regulations of Law 4.
Producing proposals for amending the                Proposals submitted to EEAA for amendments of the
environmental legislation.                          Executive Regulations (ER) of Law No. 4.
                                                    Guidelines    for   introducing    emission    load    limits  in
                                                    enforcement.
                                                    Presentation about ER amendments in the Aswan seminar in
                                                    Jan 2004.
                                                    Two training workshops for RBOs in applying emission load
                                                    guidelines.
                                                    Compiling all previous work of OSP proposals in 2001, EPAP
                                                    proposals 2004, EEAA technical committees, and EEPP
                                                    proposals for amending ER annexes of law 4/94
Developing the concept of Negotiated Agreements Report of the proposed enforcement instrument.
                                                    Screening report of 7 companies in Helwan as candidates for
Producing a model Agreement.                        NA.
                                                    Memos of two internal workshops.
                                                    Report of one model agreement.




                                                       - 31 -

                              Table 8: EEAA Industrial Unit (or focal point)

                   Activities                                             Outputs
Training of EPAP PIU staff.                     Highly professional and experienced staff available for the
                                                Industrial Unit of EEAA.
Study on institutional alternatives for         Proposal for establishing a permanent Industrial Unit
establishing industrial focal point/unit in     submitted to EEAA.
EEAA.                                           Proposal for decree for establishing the unit submitted to the
                                                Minister
Planning of priority activities of industrial   Work plan and budget proposal for fiscal year 2004-5
department.                                     submitted to EEAA.
                                                Proposals prepared for future cooperation of Industrial
                                                Department with donors.
Plan for industrial pollution indicators        Report
Baseline study of industrial pollution in Egypt Report
Delivery of equipment for industrial unit       two cars, computers, printers, copier, data show, mobiles,
                                                and accessories handed over from EPAP TIS to Industrial
                                                Unit




                                                  - 32 -

                                     Table 9: EPAP Training Activities

                                                                                        Number of
                                                                                       participating
                Training Activities for all institutions                   Date            staff
Three (03) Basic Environmental Concept Workshops in Cairo, Suez and     April 2000         105
Alexandria
Two (02) Industrial Environmental Inspection training sessions on        May 1999           77
general inspection manual guidelines in Cairo and Alexandria            - June2000
Three (03) Juridical/Legal enforcement Training Workshops for EMU'S     2002-2003          120
, RBO'S , EEAA in Cairo, Suez and Alexandria
Two (02) Training sessions on Cross Cutting Inspection Manual for          2001            120
RBO, EMU, EEAA in (Cairo & Qualiobia), (West Delta & Alexandria)
Three (03) Training sessions on Planning and management modules         April 2003
for Environmental Inspectors of EMU and RBO, in Greater Cairo &          May 2003
Fayoum, Suez & West Delta                                                June 2003          61

Hazardous waste inspection training for Cairo, Qaluboya and Suez         June 2003          60
(RBO, EMU and EEAA)


MS Office Training for EMUs in Cairo, Qualiobia, Alexandria, Suez        July 2002          30


Basic Environmental concepts training for 18 new staff in Alexandria    April 2003          18
EMU.


Four (04) Training sessions for Juries and Attorneys on Environmental Nov.& Dec. 2001      250
Cases Cairo, Alexandria                                               Jan. & Feb. 2002


Two (02) training sessions on filed inspection equipment for Cairo,     March 2001
Alex, Qualiobai & Ismalia EMU                                            June 2002          25

Total number of staff trained                                                              896




                                                       - 33 -

          Table 10: Permanent Training Organizations Developed and Tested by the Project.

              Activities                                               Outputs
Survey of relevant training           Report EPAP/INST
institutions                          Nine relevant institutions visited by the consultant.
                                      Most suitable partners for EEAA identified and approached.
                                      Information about EPAP manuals disseminated to key institutions.
Training institutions were engaged inTraining modules has been handed over to participating institutions:
EPAP training modules                § AlAhramRegionalCenterforJournalismparticipatedinthe
                                         training of junior media staff.
                                     § WorkersUniversityandInstituteofIndustrialSafety
                                         incorporated the EPAP module for Chemical Safety in their
                                         academic curricula
                                     § Trainingmodulesonenvironmentalself-monitoringwashanded
                                         over to the Federation of Egyptian Industries Industrial Chambers
                                     § NationalCenterforJuridicalStudies
                                     § CentralDepartmentforawarenessandtraininginEEAA
                                     § ESP,EEPPandotherprojectshaveusedEPAPmanualsand
                                          modules
                                     Ain Shams, Alexandria, and Suez Canal Universities have
                                     incorporated EPAP training modules in their academic curricla
                                     Pilot training modules are being prepared for Environmental Institute
                                     at Ain Shams (include with university).




                                                   - 34 -

       Table 11: Reduced Industrial Environmental Pollution Through Environmental Management

                         Activities                                                     Outputs
Marketing of financing packages                            l Continuous flow of contacts identified potential projects and
Almost 1500 marketing letters sent out,                      applications.
Brochures, articles, newsletters issued and disseminated,  l Awareness in industry about financing possibilities
Four consultants assigned for direct marketing and site      developed.
visits,
NGOs involved in marketing,
Orientation sessions held at exhibitions,
Seminars held with Investors associations, FEI, EPF and
Banks

EPAP TIS providing technical assistance to industrial      l A total of 75 industrial facilities have received technica services
facilities:                                                   (CAPs, PAAPs, Audits...etc.);
                                                           l 44 companies have implemented projects and a total of 115 of
 l Developing the concept of Pollution Abatement              reports were prepared;
     Action Plans (PAAP) & Compliance Action Plans:        l 12 companies produced PAAPs;
 l Direct assistance to WB pipeline projects:              l Three companies produced model CAPs and four companies
        l Producing environmental audits,                     produced CAP summaries;
        l Assisting in self-monitoring plans, that were    l Audit reports for 25 WB pipeline candidate projects were
           preconditions for WB financing,                    produced;
        l Preparing of technical specifications, tender    l Model tender documents for EPEC case were
           documents and tender evaluation reports and        delivered;Technical specifications and tender documents for
           contracts                                          about 14 cases were prepared;
        l Preparing technical agreements with EEAA,        l Self-monitoring plans for about 25 cases were designed;
           again condition for sub-loans                   l Tender evaluation reports for about seven cases were
        l Supervision and post-completion reports, which      offered;Technical agreements for the 21 pipeline cases were
           were precondition for receiving the grant          reached;
           portion of the WB package                       l 11 post-completion reports (status in Feb 2004) were written;
                                                           l Three cost-benefits analysis were administrated




Assistance to companies did not benefit from WB in         l Audit reports for other 28 cases that did not receive EPAP
preparation of technical specifications, tender               financing;
documents, tender evaluation reports and contracts.        l Technical specifications and tender documents for almost seven
                                                              cases were prepared;
                                                           l Self-monitoring plans for about 28 cases were offered;
                                                           l One cleaner production conversion plan for an asbestos-cement
                                                              sheet factory was administrated;
                                                           l Two clean technology opportunity audit in food industry and
                                                              textile industry were offered;

Other technical assistance:                                l Four hazardous waste minimization audits were done, and
                                                           l 13 cleaner production audits in the pharmaceutical industry,
Fast diagnostic audits                                        metal finishing industry and fertilizer industry were
                                                              implemented.




                                                          - 35 -

      Table 12: Systematic and Effective Environmental Self-monitoring Systems in Use

                   Activities                                                Outputs
Producing Pollution Abatement Action Plans for l 12 PAAPs reports included self-monitoring recommendations
selected companies
Preparing self-monitoring plans for pipeline    l A functional SM system was a precondition for WB financing
projects                                          and was verified in all 19 pipeline companies
                                                l SM plans proposed for 28 other companies that did not
                                                  receive WB financing
SM manuals and guidelines                      The following manuals in Arabic and English were published as
 l Compiling draft general SM guidebook and official EEAA guidelines:
    one sector specific SM guidebook            l General SM manual,
 l Compiling upgraded general SM manual,        l 11 sector specific SM manuals,
    sector manuals and cross-cutting SM         l Three cross-cutting manuals (hazardous waste, industrial
    manuals                                       wastewater plants and industrial energy facilities).
 l Testing selected manuals with specific       l
    companies and involving FEI and selected    l Assessment reports and case studies of two draft manuals.
    companies in commenting each draft
    manual                                     The following information sheets were published:
                                                l Environmental compliance,
                                                l Environmental register,
                                                l Hazardous waste,
                                                l Dust abatement,
                                                l Chemical safety.
Training of industry                            l Three WS on environmental law no. 4/1994 and CAPs.
    Planning and implementation of the training l Four General SM training workshop in Alexandria and
    events (Annex 7)                              Cairo. Two Textile SM training workshops in Alexandria
                                                  and Cairo in 2000.
                                                l Two Hazardous waste seminars in Cairo and Alex 2000.
                                                l Cleaner Production seminar in Environment 2001.
                                                l Dust abatement training course in the premises of Iron and
                                                  Steel Co. 2001.
                                                l Four Emission Inventory Training sessions in Cairo & Alex.
                                                l One seminar on Environmental Management Systems for
                                                  new industrial cities in collaboration with the Arab League
                                                l Chemical safety training course with Workers University
                                                l Seminar on cross-cutting manuals in Waste 2002 conference
                                                l Cleaner Production seminar in Environment 2003
                                                l Four SM training seminars with FEI for chemical, metal,
                                                  food, and textile sectors.




                                                    - 36 -

Training of industry                          l Three WS on environmental law 4/1994 and CAPs.
     Planning and implementation of the       l Four General SM training workshop in Alexandria and Cairo.
     training events (Annex 7)                l Two Textile SM training workshops in Alexandria and Cairo
                                                 in 2000.
                                              l Two Hazardous waste seminars in Cairo and Alex 2000.
                                              l Cleaner Production seminar in Environment 2001.
                                              l Dust abatement training course in the premises of Iron and
                                                 Steel Co. 2001.
                                              l Four Emission Inventory Training sessions in Cairo & Alex.
                                              l One seminar on Environmental Management Systems for new
                                                 industrial cities in collaboration with the Arab League
                                              l Chemical safety training course with Workers University
                                              l Seminar on cross-cutting manuals in Waste 2002 conference
                                              l Cleaner Production seminar in Environment 2003
                                              l Four SM training seminars with FEI for chemical, metal,
                                                 food, and textile sectors.
Piloting SM systems in practice:              l Self Monitoring plans for 2 textile companies.
 l Auditing of emissions and the existing SM  l Two audit reports.
    system in 2 companies;                    l Two cleaner production opportunity reports.
 l Documenting implemented CP actions and     l Proposals for upgrading the SM system.
    identifying new CP opportunities;         l Internal training seminar, with xx staff members
 l Proposing amendments to the SM system;       participating.
 l Implementing training of staff;            l Goldentex SM success story information sheet published.
 l Supplying one company with additional      l Presentation in the textile industry SM FEI seminar.
    monitoring equipment;                     l COD analyzer, pH and conductivity analyzer delivered to
 l Editing a SM success story information       Goldentex.
    sheet;                                    l Agreement between Goldentex and EEAA on SM reporting
 l Preparing a public lecture about the case    system (on going).
    study, and
 l Facilitating cooperation between the pilot
    company and environmental authorities
    with respect to SM reporting.




                                                 - 37 -

                                      Table 13: EPAP Training Modules

                     Activities                                                Outputs
Chemical safety training module, planned and      Workers University: Institute for Industrial Safety has
implemented by Workers University                 adopted the module in their regular curriculum.
Self-monitoring manual training, implemented at   Modules handed over to Federation of Egyptian Industry,
FEI                                               Chambers of Industry for chemical, metallurgy, textile and
                                                  food.
Dissemination of SM manuals to other projects and Manuals have been used by other donor projects in training
universities                                      such as ESP & EEPP.
                                                  Cairo University, Faculty of Engineering is currently using
                                                  EPAP manuals in postgraduate diploma in Environmental
                                                  studies.
                                                  Ain Shams, Alexandria, and Suez Canal Universities are
                                                  expected to start using the training manuals in their
                                                  curricula.
Screening study of training institutions          Report on training institutions.
                                                  Selection of three training institutions for partnership
                                                  agreements with EEAA
Meeting with FEI Chamber of Plastic Industry on   EPAP study handed over to FEI Chamber for possible future
PVC recycling                                     action.
Involving the Training Department of EEAA in all Training Department offered EPAP training modules to be
courses                                           used by other donors.




                                                   - 38 -

             Table 14: Database and Information on Industrial Environmental Management

                    Activities                                            Outputs
Internet sites on cleaner production:         l Report on internet sites
 l Survey of existing internet sites;         l Industrial Pollution Prevention Gateway published under
 l Study tour to Finland offered to a website   EEAA homepage in 2003,
    expert from EEAA;                         l Brochure for marketing the website.
 l Designing and implementing a website
    which provides CP information sources to
    users
    (http://www.eeaa.gov.eg/ippg/cp_def.htm)
EPAP homepage                                 l EPAP homepages hosted by website
 l Designing homepage                           (http://www.eeaa.gov.eg/epap/epap.htm)
 l Editing EPAP manuals, newsletter and
    information sheets into html format to be
    uploaded on the internet
 l Updating homepages




                                                  - 39 -

                Table 15: Efficient Banking Services for the Participating Companies

                 Activities                                              Outputs

EPAP participated in various meetings held Facilitation of issuing creditworthiness certificates and
between the participating banks and the    reaching loan agreements.
pipeline companies. This process was       Solving issues related to collateral and guarantees by the
conducted without any technical assistance corresponding holding company or ministry if needed.
from EPAP TIS.                             Solving some practical issues between participating banks and
                                           end users.

EPAP arranged marketing seminars for       Improved understanding of banks of the conditions of WB
financing package for banks and companies package and other financing packages managed by EEAA.
together with EPF                          Increased interest from potential client companies.
                                           10th of Ramadan city marketing meeting
                                           Four FEI marketing meetings
                                           Sadat city marketing meeting
                                           Cairo marketing meeting
Seminars arranged by FEA, sponsored by     The two seminars lead to :
EPAP and offered to banks in Alexandria. Improved understanding of the conditions of WB package and
                                           other financing packages managed by EEAA.
                                           Increased interest from potential client companies.
EPAP website included pipeline projects.   A list of confirmed pipeline projects was published on the
                                           EPAP website.
                                           An internet-based real time follow-up system shared by EPAP
                                           stakeholders could not be established due to problems in
                                           regular updates, confidentiality and information technology.
Developing implementation time schedule    Hardcopies of pipeline status updates were provided to WB
(MS Project) for EPAP pipeline projects.   during each EPAP supervision mission.
                                           Efficient EPAP follow-up of the milestones pipeline projects
                                           was performed.




                                                  - 40 -

                         Table 16: Other TISC Activities and Related Outputs

                     Activities                                            Outputs
Designing and implementing a training module for Preparing five day pilot training course in collaboration
bank credit officers.                            with the training department of CIB bank for CIB staff.
Drafting ToR for revising the module for CBE     Training module handed over to the Central Bank of
training department.                             Egypt Training department.
Preparing a proposal for EMISAL to be            § PreparingproposalforBiodiversityprojectfor
submitted to GEF for funding the company, and        protection of Lake Quarun handed over to EEAA.
linking it with the WB funding. .                    (linkage to EMISAL)
                                                §                             Presentation at seminar in
                                                Fayoum
                                                     Preparing a proposal on energy conservation project
                                                     in metallurgical industry (Iron and Steel company)
                                                     and presented it to WB.
Brainstorming for other financing packages and   § IncreasedbankawarenessofEgyptianPollution
donor funds.                                         Abatement available donor funds.
Information events for banks about funds         § FinancingproposalsincludedintheCleaner
available for environmental financing.               Production Strategy
                                                § CommentsonEU-Lifeproposals
                                                § Activeparticipationinpreparingthe
                                                     Finnish-Egyptian Transition Strategy for
                                                     Environment
                                                 § ExperiencesandideassharedwithESP/ACIproject
                                                     and other donors
Conducting a study of EPAP financing expertise    Report on sustainable financing mechanisms handed over
as well as other financing packages and           to WB, EPF and MFA Fin.
recommendations for future financing
mechanisms.
Conducting studies to assist EEAA in preparing    Investments needs identified for new donor interventions
new industrial pollution abatement projects and  Study on Analysis and Suggestions for Financing
financing mechanisms.                            Programmes in Egypt
                                                 Study on Reasons and Conditions for Implemented
                                                 Environmental Investments in Egyptian Industry




                                                 - 41 -

                         Table 17: Activities of Public and Media Awareness

                    Activities                                               Outputs
Baseline Media Survey                           On baseline study provides a starting point for monitoring
                                                industrial pollution media activity.
                                                Obstacles for efficient communication with media were
                                                identified.
EPAP Media seminar in Sharm El Sheikh           The needs of media representatives and the instruments and
                                                activities for meeting them were identified in a participatory
                                                process.
                                                In this seminar, the EPAP involved the journalists in setting
                                                the entire strategy for the Media and Awareness components,
                                                which eventually resulted in the implementation of the majority
                                                of the activities suggested, as well as a noticeable improvement
                                                in the quality and frequency of articles on industrial pollution
                                                abatement.
Media competition and tour to Finland           The journalists active in the environmental field were
                                                encouraged in their efforts.
                                                A group of 12 journalists acquired experiences and good
                                                examples of environmental policy and management in Finland.
Media training events                          The following training events were implemented and 95
                                               attendees trained:
                                               § 2PollutionAbatementtrainingstolocalmedia(5days
                                                    each) in cooperation with Al Ahram Press Regional
                                                    Center accompanied with visits to cement companies in
                                                    Helwan
                                               § EconomicWritersseminaronCleanerProduction
                                                    accompanied with a visit to Semadco fertilizer company
                                                    in Suez
                                               Cleaner Production seminar accompanied with site visit to
                                               STIA textile company in Alexandria.
                                               Awareness of Industrial pollution issues and cleaner
                                               production concept and benefits was increased in the media
                                               community.
                                               Journalists developed better contacts with environmental
                                               experts in Egypt as well as official representatives from the
                                               governorates.
Media visits to industry                       The following company visits were arranged for the media:
                                               § El-EzzsteelinSadatcity
                                               § EgyptiancoppercompanyinAlexandria
                                               § PaintsandChemicalIndustries(PACIN)inAl-Obourcity
                                               § Emisal,Fayoum­accompaniedbytheMinisterofState
                                                   for Environmental Affairs
                                               § AbuQirindustrialfertilizerscompanyinAlexandria
Media/NGO seminar                              Two day seminar in Ain Shukhna facilitated partnership
                                               between NGOs and media. 57 participants
                                               Media NGO Evaluation Report was discussed and setting
                                               suggestions for future recommendations for efficient
                                               cooperation between media, NGOs, donor projects and EEAA
                                               Recommendations were approved by the Minister of State for
                                               Environmental Affairs and included in EEAA media and
                                               awareness sector for implementation




                                                 - 42 -

                      Table 18: Activities and Output of the NGO Component


                 Activities                                              Outputs

NGO baseline study                           Report EPAP/NGO with an analysis of selected NGOs.

                                             Candidates for partnership with EPAP identified.

NGO startup meeting                          Contacts established.

                                             Applications received from NGOs.

Promoting partnership between Egyptian and some proposals from Egyptian NGOs received
Finnish NGOs                                 No action was taken to establish partnership due to
                                             difference of interest between Finnish and Egyptian NGOs.

NGOs invited in some EPAP events.            NGO representatives had access to some new information

NGOs sponsored to Environment 2001           and contacts.

conference                                   Selected NGOs gained some additional publicity.

NGO activities published in EPAP newsletter.

EPAP information material disseminated to
NGOs.

Consultant team assigned to study feasibility§       Report EPAP/NGO recognizing the significance of
of PVC recycling as an opportunity for               informal PVC recycling in decreasing hazardous
Association of Garbage Collectors for                waste disposal in Egypt.
Community Development (AGCCD)                §       Presentation at the POPS seminar in Ain Shukhna
                                                     about the role of PVC recycling in preventing dioxin
                                                     emissions.
                                             §       Proposal of a PVC recycling development project
                                                     handed over to EEAA, Chamber of plastic industry,
                                                     NGOs and donors.
Media and NGO seminar                        §       24 NGO and 23 media representatives participated
                                                     in the seminar and produced recommendations in
                                                     two working groups for future cooperation
Sponsoring an NGO event, in Alexandria       §       EEAA recognized the significance of NGOs in these
                                                     events and granted some funds for their projects.
                                             §       EPAP gained more information about NGOs active
                                                     in the environmental sector - the main finding was
                                                     the few work in the field of industrial pollution
                                                     abatement.




                                                 - 43 -

                        Table 19: Activities and Outputs of the Media Component

                       Activities                                                        Outputs

Editing and publishing EEAA newsletters                   Five issues published: January 2000, June 2000, April 2001, October
                                                          2001, August 2002 both in Arabic and English.

Directly providing information to the media               EPAP contributed to planning the concept of an newsletter by EEAA

                                                          EPAP acted as an industrial information source to the media.

                                                          On Air Radio programs and on Air TV programs discussing industrial
                                                          environmental issues with the public.

                                                          Series on Channel 2 weekly environmental program on Scientific
                                                          Research Channel, discussing industrial pollution abatement, and
                                                          aired EPAP documentaries.

                                                          More than 10 articles and three TV programs were aired in Finnish
                                                          media.

                                                          Press Releases accompanying all EPAP industrial, financing and
                                                          institutional activities.

Facilitation of EEAA newsletter                          Hosting two donor meetings about EEAA newsletter.

                                                         Contribution by EPAP to three EEAA newsletter issues by providing
                                                         industrial articles.

Editing technical information sheets and success stories Six technical information sheets.
                                                         Eleven success stories information sheets
                                                         (Annex 5)
Brochures                                                 Brochure about EPAP structure.
                                                          Brochure for marketing EPAP financial package and services.
                                                          Brochure about Pollution Prevention Gateway.
Editing posters                                          Three Posters in Arabic.

Documentary films                                        Four Finnish films on industrial pollution for the following industrial
                                                         sectors in Finland: Pulp & Paper, Dairy, Refineries and Hazardous
                                                         Waste Management were translated for subtitling to be used in
                                                         various training and awareness activities.

                                                         EPAP produced seven documentaries on environmental aspects of
                                                         some industrial sectors: Iron and Steel, Paper, Fertilizers, Ceramics,
                                                         Food, Spinning and Weaving and Metal Finishing.

                                                         A film on selected success stories supported by EPAP Technical
                                                         Assistance and WB financing was produced.

Printing and disseminating EPAP manuals                  18 Inspection manuals (Arabic & English)

                                                         15 Self-Monitoring manuals (Arabic & English)

Designing and publishing websites                        EPAP website

                                                         Industrial Pollution Prevention Gateway (IPPG)

                                                         Publishing EPAP printed materials, inspection manuals and self
                                                         monitoring manuals on EEAA and IPPG websites.




                                                           - 44 -

Industrial Pollution Abatement Information to the      Press releases: accompanying all EPAP industrial, institutional and
media.                                                 financing activities starting from1999 until 2003

                                                       Press conferences:

                                                       ·         Execution of Law 4/94 - Feb 98,
                                                       ·         Launching EPAP media and awareness component,
                                                       ·         Launching CP strategy with the Shoura Council,
                                                       ·         Launching National CP strategy,
                                                       ·         Launching Emission Inventory for South Cairo.
Participation in environmental conferences and events Exhibit in Environment 2003 conference
                                                      National Youth Exhibition 2002
                                                      Workshop at Waste 2001 conference
                                                      Presentations at :
                                                      Environment 97, 99 and 2001 conference
                                                      UNDP CP conference in Prague 2001
                                                      Military College Environmental Conference 2002
                                                      Workshop at RETBE 2002
                                                      Egypt Week in Mikkeli, Finland 2003
                                                      Private Sector role in pollution abatement 2003
                                                      Egyptian Business Association Dec. 2003
                                                      UNIDO Italian Egyptian Investment Forum Dec. 2003
                                                      Finnish seminar on environmental cooperation with Egypt 2004
                                                      Participation of EPAP in other conferences:

                                                      §          Abu Dhabi 2004

                                                      §        European Roundtable of Sustainable Production and
                                                               Consumption, Bilbao 2004




                                                        - 45 -

- 46 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                               Table 1: SAR Cost Estimates


                          LE (000,000)                            US$ (000,000)
     Project      Local     Foreign        Total         Local      Foreign          Total
  Components
A. Technical and
Institutional
Support
1.EMU/EEAA         4.1        5.8           9.9           1.2         1.7             2.9
2. PAAP's          0.7        5.7           6.4           0.2         1.7             1.9
3. Audit Support   0.3        3.4           3.7           0.1         1.0             1.1
Program
4. Promoting       1.2        2.4           3.6           0.3         0.7             1.0
Awareness
Subtotal           6.3        17.3          23.6          1.8         5.1             6.9
B. Pollution
Abatement          13.5      118.7         132.2          4.0         35.0            39.0
   Investments
C. Incremental
Operating
   Costs
1. Staffing        3.8                      3.8           1.2                         1.2
2. Operation       2.4                      2.4           0.7                         0.7
Subtotal           6.2                      6.2           1.9                         1.9
Total baseline     19.7      136.0         162.0          7.7         40.1            47.8
costs
D. Contingencies
1. Physical        0.4        0.3           0.7           0.1         0.1             0.2
2. Price           8.9        20.1          29.0          0.2         0.5             0.7
Total Project      29.0      156.4         191.7          8.0         40.7            48.7
Cost




                              Table 2: Project Financing Plan

Financing Plan
Financier/Lender             Currency                 Amount              USD Equivalent
GFIN                           USD                  5,700,000.00            5,700,000.00
IBRD                           USD                 20,000,000.00           20,000,000.00
IDA                            XDR                 10,900,000.00           15,000,000.00
Total Cost                 40,700,000.00




                                           - 47 -

                               Table 3: Project Actual Costs

                          LE (000,000)                         US$ (000,000)
     Project       Local   Foreign        Total         Local    Foreign      Total
 Components
A. Technical
and Institutional
Support
1. Project                    10.8                                 2.16
Management
2.Institutional               11.7                                 2.34
Component
3. Industrial                 9.2                                  1.86
Component
4. Financing                  0.42                                0.084
Component
5. NGO                        1.45                                 0.29
Component
6.                            2.93                                0.586
Media/Awareness
7. Database                  0.195                                0.039
Component
Subtotal                     36.69                                 7.36
B. Pollution
Abatement          98.48    175.01        273.49        19.69    35.003       54.69
Investments
Total Project      98.48    211.70        310.18        19.49    42.363       61.85
Cost




                                          - 48 -

                            Table 4: Project Costs and Financing of Sub-projects

                                                   Total     Bank
  Company      Private               Project      Project   Finance  Company   Participating   Name of      Payback      Status of
    Name          /     Location                   Cost                                                      period
               Public                  Name       (million  (million Financing   Banks       Contractor               Implementation

                                                   US$)      US$)

                                  Reduction of                                                             no
                                  nitrogen                                                                 financial

Abu Kir                           oxides stack                                                  KRUP       benefit    Commissioning

Fertilizers    Private Tabia-Alex in emissions     1.426     0.997     0.429   NBE, NSGB        UHDE       associated since March
                                  from the                                                    (Germany)    with this  2000
                                  Nitric Acid                                                              project
                                  Plant
                                  Conversion of                                                 Philips    no

El Nasr                           TL and TLD                                                 International financial

Electric and                      Production                                                 Netherlands   benefit    Commissioning
Electronic     Public  El Nozha-  lines from       0.439    0.201      0. 231     NBE                      associated
                                                                                               Nasr for               since September
Apparatus              Alexandria Mercury                                                                  with this
                                                                                             Intermediate             1999
(NEEASAE)                         Dosing to                                                                project
                                  Argon                                                       Chemical

                                  Flushing                                                     (Egypt)

                                  Conversion of                                                            no
Transport &                       the manual                                                               financial
Engineering            Semouha-   tire spraying                                                 IRM-       benefit    Commissioning

Company        Public  Alexandria process to       0.513     0.375     0.136      NBE          Holland     associated since September

(TRENCO)                          automatic                                                                with this  2000

                                  process                                                                  project
                                                                                                           no

Goldentex              10th of    Wastewater                                                               financial

Company for    Private Ramadan    treatment        0.228      0.14     0.088      NBE         Hydrotech    benefit    Commissioning

Spinning               City       plant                                                        (Egypt)     associated since June 2001
                                                                                                           with this
                                                                                                           project
                                  Collection                                                               no
                                  System for                                                               financial
                                  the acid                                                                 benefit
Egyptian                          fugitive vapor                                                           associated
Plastic and                       and vapor                                                                with this  Commissioning
Electric       Public  Victoria   fumes            1.317     0.955    0.3622      NBE         ENDECO       project    on February
Company                Alexandria treatment in                                                spa (Italy)             2002
(EPEC)                            the formation
                                  yard in the
                                  battery
                                  factory
Misr for               Nagaa      Fume                                                                     17
Aluminum       Public  Hamadi-    treatment ­       16       4.900    11.100      NBE        ABB Flakat               Commissioning

(EgyptAlum)            Qena       Dry process                                                 (Norway)                on June 2003

Cairo Poultry          10th of    Wastewater                                                  NIJHUIS      6          Commissioning
(KOKI)         Private Ramadan    treatment        1.45       1.21     0.24       NBE         water tech.
                       City       plant                                                      Netherlands              since Aug. 2001

                                                                                               CINTIC      2
                                                                                               (China),
The Egyptian                                                                                   (IBAC,
Salts and                         Washing and                                                  Shomed,
Minerals       Joint   Fayoum     distillation of  4.814     3.044     1.76       NBE        Unilex, EMI,             Commissioning

Company        Stock              Sodium                                                     Karomicha,               since Octu.2001

(EMISAL)                          Chloride salt                                              AGT, SIIC,
                                                                                               ECTRA)
                                                                                              (EGYPT)




                                                          - 49 -

                                    Replacement                                                    3.5        Commissionin

                                    of high                  1.038                                            g of stripper on

Delta                               pressure                                          Schoellere              since May

Company for    Public  Talkha ­     stripper and     3.11            0.883    NSGB     Bleckman               2001

fertilizers            Dakahlia     condenser in                                      (Germany)    3.2        Installation of
                                    the urea unit            1.189                                            condenser on

                                    B                                                                         September
                                                                                                              2003
                                    Completion                                                     2.5

El Nasr                             of the wet

Company for                         scrubbing                                          Cardwell
fertilizers &                       recovery unit                                       Europe                Commissionin

Chemical       Public  Suez         & recycling     0.6551   0.478  0.1771    NSGB      Limited               g since August

Industries                          of ammonium                                        (England)              2001

Semadco)                            nitrate
                                    dumped
                                    product
                                   Reduction of                                                    2.3
                                   hexane
                                   emissions in
Tanta for Oil          Tanta -     oil extraction                                       Thyssen               Commissionin

& Soap         Public  Gharbeya    unit by          o.29     0.20    0.097    NBE       Krupp                 g on August

                                   installation of                                    (Germany)               2002

                                   a new toaster
                                   unit
                                In Installation of                                                 6

General                            new sanitary

company for            Mostorod-   furnace                                           Sacmi Forni              Commissionin

ceramics and   Public  Qalyubiya   working with     0.956   0.675    0.281    NBE       (Italy)               g on July

porcelain                          NG instead of                                                              2003
                                   two working
                                   with solar
                                   Improving the                                                   17
                                   work
                                   environment                                       Rieckerman
                                   inside the                                        ­Germany
Kafr El-                           factory                                           Perkin
Zayat for      Private Kafr El-    (replacing       1.461   1.252    0.21     NBE    Elmer-USA                commissioning

pesticides             Zayat       bottling line,                                    Stark,Indusri            on April 2004

                                   and installing                                    rtechnik
                                   de-dusting unit                                   Germany
                                   in agricultural
                                   sulfur unit
                                   Installation of                                                 4.8
Al Ahram               10 of       Dedusting &                                       Hammam                   commissioning

metals Co      Private Ramadan                      0.266    0.24    0.026    NSGB   Industries               on January
                       City        Ventilation
                                   System                                            Company                  2005

Arma food              10 of       Replacement                                                     6.3        Install ongoing

industries     Private Ramadan     of the           1.217   0.815    0.402    CIB    Oil Tek -                &

company                City        bleaching unit                                    Malaysia                 commissioning
                                                                                                              on March 2005
                                                                                                   no

Arma food              10 of       installation of                                                 financial  Install ongoing

industries     Private Ramadan     indirect         1.33    1.106    0.224    CIB    Oil Tek -     benefit    &

company                City        cooling system                                    Malaysia      associated commissioning
                                                                                                   with this  on July 2005
                                                                                                   project

Arma food              10 of       Installation of                                                 4          Install ongoing

industries     Private Ramadan     chemical oil     3.759   2.772    0.987    CIB    Oil Tek -                &

company                City        refining unit                                     Malaysia                 commissioning
                                   for edible oil                                                             on July 2005
                                                                                                   5.4
Alex.                                                                                                         Install ongoing
Sodium                 El Max ­    Building new                                      ARESCO -                 &
Carbonate      Public  Alex.       limekiln         4.571    4.13    0.441    NBE    Magiun                   commissioning
Co.                                furnace                                           Company                  on March 2005




                                                         - 50 -

                              Instillation of                                                 5.3    Install ongoing
Al Ahram            Azizia -  waste water                                         Nijhuis -          &
Beverage    Private Sharkia   treatment plant  1.345    1.172    0.173     NSGB
                              & in-plant                                          Egypt              commissioning

                              modification                                                           on March 2005

                              Installation of                                                 2.3
                              Automatic
                              system for                                                             Install ongoing

MAC         Private El Max ­  recycling of                                        Zimmer ­           &
                    Alex.     thickener        0.219    0.201  0.018    CIB       Austria            commissioning
                              material &                                                             on March 2005
                              installation of
                              filter press
                                                                                              10
Egyptian                      Install new                                         ARESCO -           Install ongoing

Petrochemic  Pubic  El Ameria sulfuric acid    1.105    0.998    0.107     NBE    Plink              &

al Co.              ­ Alex.   concentration                                       Company            commissioning

                              unit                                                                   on july 2005

                              Upgrading of                                        FLS         6
                              kiln/raw mills,                                     company
                              and bypass                                                             Suez plant:
                              electrostatic                                                   6.8    commissioning

Suez for            Qattamya/ precipitators                                                          on March 2005

Cement      Private Suez      and              6.43      4.95     1.48     NSGB                      Quattamia
                              conditioning                                        ARESCO -           plant:
                              towers and                                          ELEX               commissioning
                              installation of                                     Company            on July 2005
                              dust suctions
                              systems
                              Installati                                                      5
                    10th of   on of a                                                                Install ongoing

Koki        Private Ramadan-  new              1.469     1.08  0.389    CIB       HAARSIEV           &

                    Sharkia   rendering                                           ­ UK               commissioning

                              unit                                                                   on March 2005

                              Rehabilitation                                        HUNT-     4.92
                              of the UHDE                                         England
                              and Croisot-                                           For
                              Loire (LC)                                          condenser
                              nitric acid                                         Goulds -
                              plants by                                           England            Install ongoing

Semadco II   Pubic  Suez      replacement of   0.792    0.602     0.19     NSGB       For            &
                              cooling                                             pumps              commissioning
                              condenser &                                                            on March 2005
                              pumps &                                             LABOM ­
                              improvement                                         Germany
                              of automatic                                          For
                              and monitoring                                      instrument
                              plant.




                                                    - 51 -

                  Table 5: Sub-project Financing: APEX and Participating Banks


                    Company Name                         Total amount in USD


NBE:
Neasea Co.                                                               201,000.00
Transport & Engineering Co.                                              375,200.00
Goldentex Co.                                                              140,000.00
Misr Aluminum                                                            4,900,000.00
Egyptian Plastic & Electric co.                                            954,720.00
Egyptian Salts & Minerals Co.- Emisal                                  3,044,000.00
Tanta for Oil & Soap                                                       199,928.00
General company for Ceramics & Porcelain Products ­                        675,000.00
Chini
Kafr El Zayat for Pesticides                                             1,252,696.00
Alexandria for Sodium Carbonate Co.                                      4,130,739.87
Egyptian Petrochemicals Co.                                              1,079,339.04
Sub-total                                                              16,952,622.91
NSGBank:
Abu Kir Fertilizers Co.                                                  997,000.00
Delta Fertilizers & Chemical Stripper                                    1,037,795.00
Condenser                                                                1,189,957.00
Cairo Poultry ­ Koki                                                     1,209,850.00
El Nasr Fertilizers & Chemicals (Semadco)I                                 478,080.00
Ahram metals                                                               240,085.00
Ahram Beverage                                                           1,172,283.00
Semadco II                                                                 620,945.41
Suez Cement                                                              4,950,000.00
Sub- total                                                             11,895,995.41
CIBank:
Arma                                                                   4,950,000.00
KOKI II                                                                  1,002,806.00
MAC                                                                        201,576.00
Sub-total                                                                6,154,382.00
Total                                                                 35,003,000.32




                                                  - 52 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 53 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              December 1995             7    MISSION LEADER (1)
                                                FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC (1)
                                                PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
                                                ECONOMIST (1)
                                                ENV. SPECIALIST (1)
                                                CONSULTANTS (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              December 1997             8    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                                SENIOR ENV. SPEC (1);
                                                ENV. ECONOMIST (1);
                                                ENV. SPECIALIST (1);
                                                CONSULTANTS (3);
                                                AGR. SPECIALIST (1)


 Supervision

              03/13/1998                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                                ENV. SPECIALIST (1);
                                                ENV. ADVISER (1);
                                                MNSRE DIRECTOR (1)
              12/11/1998                2    ENV. ECONOMIST (1);              S               S
                                                NATURAL RESOURCE
                                             SPEC.
                                                (1)
              06/30/1999                2    MISSION LEADER-LEAD              S               S
                                                ENV. SPECIALIST (1)
                                                NATURAL RES. SPEC (1)
              02/25/2000                5    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                                ENV. SPEC. (1); FINANCIAL
                                                MANAGEMENT SPEC. (1);
                                                MNSRE DIRECTOR (1)
                                                ACTING COUNTRY
                                                DIRECTOR (1)
              07/10/2002                3    MISSION LEADER-LEAD              S               S
                                                ENV SPECIALIST (1)
                                                ENV. SPECIALIST (1)
                                                FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC (1)
              03/31/2001                8    MISSION                          U               S
                MTR)                         LEADER-REGIONAL (1);
                                             ENV. COORDINATOR (1);
                                               PRINCIPAL ENV. SPEC (1)
                                               SR. FIN. MGMT SPEC (1)
                                               ENV. SPECIALIST (1)
                                               INDUSTRIAL POLL. SPEC (1)



                                              - 54 -

                                             NATURAL RES. SPEC (1)
                                             SR. OPER. SPEC (1)
                                             OPERATIONS SPEC (1)
               07/06/2002              3    MISSION LEADER -                  S    S
                                            REGIONAL
                                             ENV. COORDINATOR (1)
                                             SR. ENV. SPEC (1)
                                             SENIOR FMS (1)
               12/22/2002              4    MISSION LEADER - SR. ENV.         S    S
                                              SPEC (1); ENV. SPEC (1);
                                              LEAD ENV. SPEC (1)
                                              SENIOR FMS (1)
                                              SR. PROCURMENT SPEC (1)
               06/26/2003              2    MISSION LEADER -                  S    S
                                            SR. ENV. SPEC (1);
                                            REGIONAL ENV.
                                            COORDINATOR (1)
               12/22/2003              4    MISSION LEADER - SENIOR           S    S
                                            ENV. SPEC (1); REGIONAL
                                            ENV. COORDINATOR (1)
                                            SR. FMS (1)
               06/22/2004              2    MISSION LEADER - SENIOR           S    S
                                            ENV. SPEC. (1); REGIONAL
                                            ENV. COORDINATOR (1)
               12/18/2004              2    MISSION LEADER-SENIOR             S    S
                                            ENV. SPEC. (1)
                                            REGIONAL ENV.
                                            COORDINATOR (1)

 ICR
               03/01/2005             4     MISSION LEADER -                  S    S
                                            SENIOR ENV. SPEC. (1)
                                             REGIONAL ENV.
                                            COORDINATOR (1)
                                             SENIOR PROCUREMENT
                                            SPEC (1)
                                            CONSULTANT-
                                            ECONOMIST (1)

Source: SAP (June 2005)

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   5.6                       20,800
  Supervision                            100                       445,750
  ICR                                     7.5                       22,000
  Total                                113.1                       488,550
Source: (SAP-July 2005)




                                            - 55 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 56 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 57 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


l Mission Aide-Memoires
l Project Status Reports/Implemention Status Reports on file
l Descriptive list of sub-projects on file
l Case Summary Notes of Investment Component
l Full report of Borrower's contribution on file




                                                - 58 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Project Completion Report

Disclaimer: For adherence to OED Guidelines, the Borrower's Contribution to this ICR has been
considerably edited and condensed. It represents the Borrower's main findings of project
implementation

The full Borrower's contribution has been filed within the IRIS filing system of MNSRE

A. Assessment of Development Objectives and Design, and Quality at Entry:

A.1 Original Objective:

The objective of the seven-year Egyptian Pollution Abatement Project (EPAP), jointly financed by the
Government of Egypt (GOE), The Government of Finland (GOF), the World Bank (WB) and the European
Investment Bank (EIB), was to assist the GOE in reducing industrial pollution causing adverse health
efforts and or ecological degradation. Its specific objectives are to strengthen the monitoring and
enforcement capabilities of the environmental institutions and establish technical and financial mechanisms
for supporting pollution abatement investments in Greater Cairo, Alexandria, and the Suez Canal cities of
Suez and Ismailia.

EPAP immediate objective was to create sustainable mechanisms for the enforcement of environmental
pollution abatement and compliance with its regulations. The main areas of EPAP activities are: a)
technical assistance to pipeline projects to be financed from the WB soft-loan package; b) strengthening of
the inspection and enforcement capability of the Egyptian administration, and c) promoting awareness of
the importance of industrial pollution abatement. However, one of the major challenges of EPAP future
success is indeed sustainable environmental pollution abatement.

The project objectives were clear, well defined and mostly realistic. On the other hand, the definition of the
objectives was flexible enough to allow relevant adjustments to physical components in order to ensure
effectiveness of activities without reformulation with the project objectives and amendments to the loan
agreements. Moreover, the objectives were fully consistent with the Government priorities in the
environment sector.

A. 2 Revised Objective:

The project objectives were not revised

A. 3 Original components:

        The project consisted of two components:
(a)     Technical & institutional support component
(b)     Pollution abatement investment component

The design of the project with merging of the WB financing package and the technical and institutional
support from Finland has been a successful strategy.




                                                     - 59 -

A.3.1 Technical Assistance Component: This component provided technical assistance, studies, and
training, monitoring equipment and field vehicles with 6.2 million euro. In the project document the TIS
was divided into seven (7) components. The TIS, funded consisted of too many components. In 1999 a mid
term review of the TIS was carried out in response to its Supervisory Board and a decision of refocusing
was taken. The project was restructured into five components by merging the original components 2&3 into
the "industrial component" and 5&6 into "media and awareness component". The database "component"
was later added. In 2001 defined as only one separate activity under the industrial component. Finally
during the extension phase 2003-2004 the number of components was reduced to only three: industrial,
institutional and awareness. The linking of the components has caused a drastic improvement in the
performance of the project.

A.3.2 Pollution Abatement Investment Component: This component would consist of pollution
Abatement Fund with US $ 35 million and the companies' investment contribution of US $4 million. The
World bank has provided the loan to Government of Egypt (National Investment Bank) The IDA loan
covers the amount of SDR 10.9 million (equiv. to USD 15 million), 35 years maturity and 10 years as a
grace period with max. interest rate of 0.875%. The IBRD loan covers the amount of USD 20 million, 20
years maturity and five years as a grace period with a maximum interest rate LIBOR + LIBOR total spread
and, 0.750% as a Commitment fee and 0.125% as Guarantee fee. The Apex Bank was the National
Investment Bank that provided the financing package to environmental projects in industrial enterprises.
The WB package is based on company self finance of at least 10%. The remaining amount is provided by
a grant of 20% of the total investment cost (excluding civil works), and a loan of 80% on commercial terms
with a grace period ranged from one to two years and up to eight years of total repayment period.

The existence of an Apex Bank responsible for the management of the Financing package was very
effective. The role of participating banks was also very important for providing finance to their clients
(industrial establishments). This has helped in fully allocating the financing package.

A.4 Quality at entry:

The quality at entry of the project was unsatisfactory. The start up of the project was slow as there was no
efficient staffing.

The PIU was not sufficiently staffed in the early years of the project until the WB was effective in 1999,
taking into consideration that the same staff acted as the Industrial Compliance Unit and also as the
counterpart for KfW public sector financial package. More staff was gradually recruited, trained and
finally employed as permanent employees for the Industrial Unit.

In the beginning of the project EEAA was still with limited capacities in terms of qualified personnel and
other resources and relied on the expertise brought forth by the Finnish component to institutionalize
aspects of environmental compliance and enforcement. The institutional activities that would have required
strong involvement from the EMUs and RBOs apparently started too early.               The RBOs were not
adequately staffed until during 2001. The on-the-job activities could not be implemented at full scale
before 2002.

The WB financial package for investments was not available till the ratification and effectiveness of the
agreements in January 1999, so two years of technical assistance was used for planning and studies without
any sub-projects proceeding in the pipeline. This period also caused in some cases that the companies
found other sources of financing and dropped from the pipeline. The EPAP management could not


                                                    - 60 -

influence this constraint. The approach of targeting the 50 major polluters, the majority of which were
public sector companies, was not based on sufficient analysis of the financial eligibility of the companies. It
became apparent during 1999-2000 that most of the worst polluters were not in the position of taking any
commercial loans.

B. Achievement of Objective and Output:

B.1 Outcome/Achievement of Objective:
Overall the project achieved its development objective. EPAP acted as a pilot project for introducing
mechanisms of enforcement and voluntary environmental management and sustainable environmental
financing. The stated purpose for the project was that appropriate mechanisms and measures for industrial
environmental compliance and enforcement are developed, introduced, tested and institutionalized.           The
achievement indicator for this purpose is that the participating industrial establishments and administrative
units use developed environmental planning, management, monitoring and enforcement mechanisms.

The overall development objective was expressed in terms of reduced industrial pollution in Egypt
through increased compliance with the environmental laws. The overall contribution of industry in the
pollution of air, the Nile and the sea cannot be extracted directly from the available statistics. This baseline
data is however emerging from projects such as Cairo Air Improvement Project, EIMP and also EPAP
itself. EEPP project estimated in 2004, that in Greater Cairo, industrial emissions contributed 34% of the
particulate pollution in the air in 2001/2002.     In addition industry contributed to particulate pollution
through fuel combustion with a share of 22% of the fuel derived emissions. (Source: EEPP, Proposed
components for the National Air Quality Strategy Framework, draft March 29th, 2004). For pollution of
water similar calculations were not available to EPAP.

Experience shows that without enforcement the industrial pollution cannot be controlled sufficiently.
Voluntary actions do take place and Market mechanisms are having an effect of increasing demand for
environmental management in export industry. These mechanisms are however weak in public companies,
companies producing for the home market and in SMEs.

C. Outputs by component:

C.1 Technical and Institutional Component:

C 11 Institutional component

1. The participating EEAA units, RBOs and EMUs have significantly improved the efficiency and quality
of industrial inspection. New initiatives have been introduced in enforcement policy.

2. National Cleaner Production Strategy has been developed and its Implementation initiated.

3. EPAP has supported the establishment of a permanent industrial unit in EEAA.




                                                     - 61 -

4. Permanent training institutions contribute to EPAP sustainability.



                                         EPAP Training Activities
                  Training Sector                                      Number of Participants
Institutional                                                                   896
Industrial                                                                     2,246
Financing                                                                        30
Media                                                                           275
NGO                                                                            1,049
Total No. of Participants = 4496



Industrial component

1. Industrial emissions have been reduced through environmental investments and through assistance in
identifying environmental problems and solutions.

2. Environmental management in industrial enterprises has been promoted through capacity building in
environmental self-monitoring and pollution abatement.

Easy access to the internet for information on pollution abatement has been accomplished through the
Industrial Pollution Prevention Gateway website, developed by EPAP in collaboration with the
Environmental Information Department of EEAA, and hosted on EEAA homepage: www.eeaa.gov.eg/ippg/

Sustainable Financing Component

1. Improved capacity of financing environmental investment projects.

Media & NGO Awareness component

1. Improved public awareness on issues of industrial pollution.

2. Major increase in NGO activities in the field of industrial pollution awareness.

EPAP has managed to establish four contracts in raising awareness in the area of industrial pollution
abatement with the following NGOs.




                                                    - 62 -

    No.                                    NGO                                      Governorate
   1.    Friends of the Environment Association in Alexandria (FEAA)                 Alexandria
   2.    Nile Guards and Environment Protectors Association (NAGEPA)                  Qaliobeya
   3.    Egyptian Society for Environment and Industrial Enterprises (ESEI)             Suez
   4.    Association for Health and Environmental Development (AHED)                    Cairo

C.2 Pollution Abatement Investment Component

The WB financing package was fully allocated in environmental investments in industrial enterprises. It is
concluded that EPAP support was relevant especially in the field of air pollution abatement where other
donors were not as active. The reduction of emissions from the pipeline projects are summarized in the
following table. The benefits of the projects have been verified from quarterly reports. It became clearer
that major progress major progress towards compliance has been made by investing in environmental
projects. Some companies were in need of financing but they did not qualify to benefit from the EPAP
technical assistance. However, they benefited from the EPAP technical assistance and were able to develop
their own self financed industrial pollution abatement projects.

Without sufficient technical assistance resources provided by EPAP TIS, such loans would not have been
fully utilized.   Technical assistance was needed in identifying and assessing project candidates, in
performing environmental audits and especially in preparing tender documents tender as well as evaluation
reports.

This has proved that for a certain segment of the large scale industry the incentive of 20% grant was a
sufficient incentive for implementing environmental or cleaner production projects.

PIU was responsible for marketing of the financing package, identifying pipeline projects, preparation of
environmental audits, assisting the companies in the preparation of bidding documents, and evaluation
reports. PIU was also responsible for the day-to-day cooperation with the participating banks.

Increased industrial pollution abatement investments in Egypt

Increased interest of the participating banks National Bank of Egypt (NBE) has established an
environmental department in 2001. It is responsible for coordinating all environmental financing packages
and following up with all branches of approval procedures for environmental investments.           EPAP
apparently had an impact on this positive development but did not provide technical assistance. The other
two participating banks (NSGB & CIB) have established an environmental financing focal point for
coordinating environmental projects.

Processing time of loan applications was reduced during EPAP lifetime.

Establishing a sustainable financing mechanism: EPAP had a major impact on the EPF where all the
experience of EPAP where taken into consideration while designing the Fund. The study on the sustainable
financing mechanisms was extremely efficient, because it was geared to directly support the designing of
new sustainable financing packages and involving the EPF.           Thus EPAP is contributing to the
establishment of a permanent funding mechanism within EEAA.




                                                   - 63 -

EPAP expertise was shared with other donors, and used for designing sustainable financing packages

EPAP expertise has had an impact on the KfW public sector facility since EPAP PIU has acted as a major
counterpart for this facility. EPAP also has shared its expertise with other institutions exploring similar
financing mechanisms. EPAP experiences were used for designing the revolving fund administered by
ESP\ACI in cooperation with the National Bank of Egypt, the Federation of Egyptian Industry and the
EEAA with the amount of 69 million DKK to implement environmental compliance projects and cleaner
production projects.

D. Institutional Development Impact:

The commitment of the GOE in building the institutional capacity in environmental administration has been
impressing. The appointment of three dedicated Ministers of State for Environmental Affairs have helped
in reviving the importance of environment and compliance in Egypt. The EEAA have more than tripled the
staffing during the 7 years of EPAP. Regional branch offices have been established in 5 regions and 3
under their way. Environmental management units in the four target Governorates have been provided with
new staff and with satisfactory office facilities, field equipment and vehicles.

The establishment of new units in EEAA would ensure sustainability. The inspection unit which has
harmonized and coordinated inspection policies of EEAA. The new industrial unit which will continue
what EPAP has been doing for the last 7 years and will liaise all industrial-related issues including
inspection related issues. Also the unit for coordination between EMUs in 27 governorates and EEAA
which will be following up the implementation of the protocol signed between the Minister of
Administrative and MSEA. Finally, the NGO unit which would ensure the continuous cooperation with
NGO.

E. Major Factors affecting implementation and outcome:

E.1 Factors outside the control of the government:
Foreign exchange risk represented a major constraint for banks. Banks were reluctant to lend in local
currency and bear the Foreign exchange risk.

E.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Delay of effectiveness of Pollution Abatement Fund, as it took 11 months for the agreements to be ratified
in the parliament.

Creditworthiness and adequate collateral of target beneficiaries, especially public sector enterprises (the
major polluters), was not always acceptable to banks. The Holding Company for Chemical Industry
demonstrated exceptional commitment in the public sector by solving the collateral problems for several
projects in its domain.

Guarantee problems in obtaining the financing package, some end-users had to borrow against pledged
deposits (full cash cover).

EPAP grant portion was not the biggest in financing packages available in the market. In addition, the
program did not cover associated civil works.

The procurement procedures required by World Bank was too complicated compared to their practice.
However, this obstacle was alleviated by providing these companies free technical assistance in all steps of



                                                       - 64 -

procurement.

A positive result of implementing environmental financing packages is the development of environmental
strategies in some banks, which established environmental departments.

F. Costs and financing:

The total project cost was estimated at appraisal US $ 35.0 million and the enterprises investment
contribution of US $ 4.0 million. This contribution is self financed by the industry which included: civil
works and other costs. The closing date of the project was September 2003; however, it was extended until
March 30, 2005. The total amount of the financing package has been fully allocated and disbursed.

G. Sustainability:

The sustainability rating of the project is satisfactory. Concerning the Financing package, the Minister of
Environment gave importance for providing concessionary financing to public and private industrial
enterprises for solving pollution problems.

The PIU staff has been recruited by EEAA, The staff represents EEAA in different events, workshops and
conferences as well as participates in internal EEAA meetings for policy setting and follow up. In addition,
EEAA has sent some of the Project's personnel as part of its official delegation in a number of international
events. This shows that in contrast to many other donor projects, where the local staff is recruited on
temporary basis only, EPAP is embedded directly in EEAA.

The Banks have showed interest in financing environmental projects. The environmental department
established in the Apex Bank, National Bank of Egypt (NBE), is responsible for coordinating all
environmental financing packages and following up with all branches of approval procedures for
environmental investments. The Bank reached more agreements with other donors for example: European
Investment Bank, African Development bank, Industrial Modernization Program, Environmental Sector
Program, ACI component,. Also Banks have reached other agreements with Environmental Protection
Fund and Social Fund for development

The counterpart for this Banking/financing component is the director of the Environmental Protection Fund
(EPF) at EEAA.        All activities within this component aims at strengthening the capabilities of the
participating banks and EPF and at creating strong linkages between the project, the Fund and the
beneficiaries.     The EPF has signed agreements with four commercial banks about co-financing
environmental investments in industry, with EPF providing an interest rate subsidy of 6% on the
commercial loan. The EPF director has also jointly prepared the integration of environmental risks and
liabilities training module to the credit activities of the banking sector to be presented and disseminated to
the banks. EPF has agreed with the CBE to implement the training to banks through the banks Institute.




                                                      - 65 -

H. Overall Bank performance:

Lending:

The Bank's performance during project preparation is rated satisfactory. During the project preparation
and appraisal the PHRD grant was used for the preparation of a projects pipeline. Environmental audits
were prepared which identified pollution abatement projects as potential candidates for EPAP2. However,
some of the corresponding companies were public sector and major polluters but they were not credit
worthy and they were not able to benefit from the financing package. The appraisal of the project started in
1996 and ended in 1997.

Supervision:

The Bank's performance in supervision is rated satisfactory. There were twelve supervision missions
(including site visits) The Bank's staff showed flexibility and understanding in responding to evolving
circumstances. Bank staff was well staffed with different specialists relevant to the project monitoring.
Bank has been always directly connected with the PIU. The mid term review was carried out in March
2001 and revealed that there were no major deficiencies. It expanded the eligibility criteria for the
subprojects to include all industrial sectors and all governorates of Egypt. The project closing date was
extended from September 2003 till March 2005.
On the procurement side, little guidance was provided in the beginning, however, this had tremendously
improved during the last 2 years of the project, and the companies were allowed to use their commercial
practice in purchasing the pollution abatement equipment.

Overall Bank Performance:

The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory. Bank teams were very competent during the lending
and supervision. Also the Bank was flexible in modifying project's eligibility criteria for selection of
projects. A major success factor of this project is the commitment of the World Bank team to implement
this project.

I. Borrower performance:

Preparation:

The Borrower performance was satisfactory as regards to project identification, preparation and appraisal.
The Government of Egypt (MOIC, MSEA, EEAA, NBE, and NIB) has participated fully in the discussions
and were very effective in designing the project.

Government implementation performance

The performance of the Government was rated satisfactory as there was strong willingness and
commitment to implement the project in satisfactory. Although there was delay in the ratification of the
agreements from the parliament, the government was very supportive during the implementation of the
project and proceeded very quickly for requesting the extension of the project




                                                   - 66 -

Implementing Agency:

The Ministry of State for Environmental Affairs / Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency has assumed
full ownership of the project's operations. The involvement of the Minister of state of Environmental
Affairs and the CEO are very apparent in this project, they followed very closely the status of the
disbursement of the sub loan and sub grant and is intervened whenever needed to encourage industries to
invest or to negotiate with the commercial banks on the importance of providing certain companies,
especially major polluters, with the soft financing package. This can be witnesses with the initiation of
several high level meetings with other stakeholders (the Minister of Public Enterprise, the Minister of
Planning and International Cooperation, the CEO of the National Bank of Egypt, heads of Holding
Companies and others) to discuss the problems facing the disbursement of the financing package.
Moreover, the minister's visits for attending the commissioning of the pipelines pollution abatement
projects with the attendance of high officials, ambassadors, and media representatives was very important
to show the success stories to all industry.


EPAP PIU was very efficient in managing the financing package and the Technical assistance of EPAP.
They helped in fully allocating the financing package.

The National Bank of Egypt was satisfactory however; there were some delays in submitting the financial
audit reports, and some problems in following the disbursement of the sub loans.

Overall Borrower's performance:The overall borrower's performance is rated satisfactory

J. Lessons learned:Design and Implementation of physical components:

Procurement:It is important here to underscore the fact that NIB was supposed to utilize the proceeds of
the IBRD Loan and of the IDA Credit to grant sub-loans to beneficiaries on terms and conditions agreed
with the Bank/IDA. The terms and conditions relevant to procurement were set out in Annex B of Schedule
1 of the Project Agreement and in Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement (LA). For brevity, we will only refer
to the terms and conditions of Schedule 4 of the LA, practically identical to those of the Project Agreement.
It requires beneficiaries to procure goods in accordance to the general provisions of Section I of the
Guidelines and to the specific provisions of said Section 4, as applicable, m particular, a distinction is made
between beneficiaries (here called "purchasers") who are "required to follow the Borrower's [GOE's] public
procurement procedures" and those who are not. Purchasers who are not required to follow GOE's public
procurement procedures may "...use normal commercial practices of such purchasers... account being taken
also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of goods and availability
of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefore." Prior review by the Bank of procurement decisions is
applicable to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$5,000,000 or more,
irrespective of the procedures followed.

Procurement Implementation Issues

It appears that the PIU has been facing some difficulties in applying the provisions of the LA and in using
the full range of procurement procedures allowed under the project. Amongst the main reasons that could
be identified are:

         i. Limited experience in international public procurement and in Bank procedures, compounded
            by inadequate provisions for relevant training;



                                                     - 67 -

        ii. Conflicting and misleading interpretation of the actual terms and conditions of the LA
             applicable to procurement;
        iii. Difficulties in reconciling the provisions of the LA and the Guidelines with the sometimes
             conflicting provisions of GOE's Procurement Law;
         i. Technical complexity of the equipment procured and of the rum-key procurement procedure
            adopted;
        ii. Late feedback by the Bank, as all contracts fell below the threshold for prior review.

Financing and disbursement:

Special account should have been with bigger sealing to expedite the process of disbursement.
In this type of projects and especially at the end of the project better and speedy coordination between on
lenders on issues involving procurement and processing of payments.

Environmental Management Plan (PASIE)
EPAP is not expected to solve the problem of industrial pollution; rather, it is intended to act as a pilot
project for introducing mechanisms of enforcement, voluntary environmental management and sustainable
environmental financing. This purpose of EPAP has been achieved.

Basically, the merging of the WB financing package as well as the technical and institutional support from
Finland has been a successful strategy.          Establishing a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) as an
independent unit, but within the official EEAA structure, has proved successful. The sustainability of
results has been ensured by establishing the Industrial Unit within EEAA by the ministerial decree 33/2004.
The Ministry of State for Environmental Affairs has assumed full ownership of EPAP operations. This has
led to continuous coordination between the Ministry departments and EPAP management in all activities.
It has added to the success of the project, building on EEAA expertise and official support.

The lag between the start of the EPAP two components, that is Technical Assistance (TA) Component
(January 1997) and WB financing component (January 1999), has led to a rather hesitant start. The TA
has concentrated on assisting in the implementation of the newly promulgated environmental law (Law
4/1994) as EEAA has been still with limited capacities in terms of qualified personnel and other resources.
Complicated design of the technical assistance in the original design of the project prevented efficient
management and synergy between activities.

Involving the stakeholders in setting a project work plan has guaranteed project success. The flexibility of
EPAP planning mechanism has allowed seizing new emerging opportunities in enforcement policy. This
has led to successful strategies such as: the cleaner production, significant amendments to the executive
regulations and the introduction of the negotiated agreement scheme.

EPAP experience with industrial enterprises has proved the success of cleaner production investment
projects, attracting industrial enterprises rather than end-of-pipe projects due to their economic and
environmental benefits. This has highlighted the need for EPAP initiative to produce the first national
cleaner production strategy in collaboration with nine concerned ministries.

Another lesson learned has been that a project cannot achieve far reaching effects in the field of inspector
training before a reasonable framework of a national enforcement policy is in place.       Unified inspection
guidelines have been needed.       Policies regarding complaints management, step-wise compliance and
division of tasks have had to be tackled before individual inspectors could use their acquired technical
know-how efficiently.


                                                     - 68 -

Involving training institutions and industrial organizations in the training has been essential in attracting
high numbers of participants and in ensuring sustainability and wide dissemination of gained experience.
A lot of overlapping training activities have been avoided thanks to effective coordination between donor
projects, EEAA concerned departments, and EPAP.

The existence of an Apex Bank was very effective in fully allocating the financing package and the
participating involvement of the Participating banks from the very beginning is vital for expediting the
process of allocating the full amount of the fund.

K .Conclusion

EPAP (1997­2004) has succeeded in assisting various Egyptian Industries to comply with environmental
regulations through implementing environmental projects, strengthening inspection capacity, raising
awareness on the importance of pollution abatement, and introducing the concepts of self-monitoring and
cleaner production. Since the project launch in 1997 EPAP has achieved considerable progress in ensuring
the participation of various stakeholders which has eventually resulted in ownership of the project and
sustainability of activities. To build on EPAP expertise and success an Industrial Unit has been established
within EEAA (according to the Ministerial Decree 33/2004). On another level, EPAP II - a new project
which aims at sustainable industrial pollution abatement, based on the lessons learned, and expertise gained
from EPAP I - is being negotiated for future implementation in Alexandria Governorate with support from
GoE, WB and other donor agencies. Indeed the purpose is to secure continuous commitment of Industrial
Enterprises to preserving a cleaner environment free from pollution, and to activate effective tools to
enforce environmental pollution abatement.




                                                    - 69 -

Additional Annex 9. Co-Lender's Completion Report

 (Executive Summary of the Completion Report for the Technical Assistance Component financed by the
 Government of Finland)

 I.   Background & Overview

 Due to rapid industrialization, initiated in the 1960s, the environment in Egypt has been afflicted with
 severe problems. Such problems have resulted in the deterioration of natural resources, impairment of
 agricultural productivity and serious threats to the health of the industrial labor force as well as the
 Egyptian public. During the early 1990's Greater Cairo, Alexandria and Suez accounted for over 80%
 of industrial activity in Egypt. The environmental degradation has been aggravated as a result of weak
 enforcement capacity of the environmental administration, difficulties in monitoring industrial
 emissions, lack of instruments, and limited trained personnel. The absence of industrial responsibility
 and the lack of economic as well as political incentives to invest money in pollution abatement have
 further intensified the problem.

 The Environment Protection Law 4/1994 has designated Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency
 (EEAA) as the highest national agency under the Cabinet of Ministers to be responsible for the
 coordination and supervision of environmental affairs. EEAA has set as its long-term objective the
 introduction and integration of environmental concerns - relevant to the protection of human health and
 management of state natural resources - in order to be incorporated into all national policies, plans and
 programs. Law 4/1994 has granted the pollution establishments a grace period of three years, starting
 from the issuance of the Executive Regulations in 1995 (According to Ministerial Decree 338/1995) and
 ending in February 1998.        The law is mainly based on a command-and-control approach. The
 implementation of the Environment Protection Law is costly and technically complicated, and it is likely
 to be a long process for the Egyptian industrial enterprises to comply with all its requirements.

 The Government of Egypt, with the assistance of international donor organizations, has launched a
 number of programs and projects in order to promote industrial pollution abatement and ensure the
 compliance of Egyptian industries with environmental legislation. The objective of the seven-year
 Egyptian Pollution Abatement Project (EPAP), jointly financed by the Government of Egypt (GoE), The
 Government of Finland (GOF), the World Bank (WB) and the European Investment Bank (EIB), is to
 assist the GoE in reducing industrial pollution by strengthening the enforcement, and monitoring the
 capabilities of the environmental administration on regional and local levels. The purpose is to assist
 the most polluting industries to finance their pollution abatement projects from the WB financing
 package, and help non­governmental organizations (NGOs) and media representatives increase public
 awareness and sustain positive participation in industrial environmental planning and decision-making.

 EPAP consists of two pillars: The Technical and Institutional Support (TIS) and the Financing Package.
 The TIS, funded by the Finnish Government, started in January 1997 while the Financing Package,
 financed by WB, only became effective in January 1999. The TIS will phase out in June 2004 while
 the Financing Package will come to an end in March 2005. EPAP beneficiaries are large and medium
 enterprises, NGOs, media representatives, banks, and inspectors in Regional Branch Offices (RBOs)
 and Environmental Management Units (EMUs) in four governorates, namely Cairo, Qaliobeya,
 Alexandria, and Suez.




                                                  - 70 -

The relevance of EPAP objectives is self-evident and verifiable.
According to a WB study , the Cost Assessment of Environmental Degradation ­ 29 June 2002 ­
Report No 25175 ­ EGT. , the cost of environmental degradation in Egypt has reached L.E. 14.5
billion, that is 4.8% of GDP.         Egyptian industrial enterprises are estimated to contribute to
environmental pollution in Greater Cairo by about 30%. On another level, both the workers in the
facilities and the people living in the neighboring areas are seriously suffering from environmental
pollution.

EPAP immediate objective is to create sustainable mechanisms for the enforcement of environmental
pollution abatement and compliance with its regulations. The main areas of EPAP activities are: a)
technical assistance to pipeline projects to be financed from the WB soft-loan package; b) strengthening
of the inspection and enforcement capability of the Egyptian administration, and c) promoting
awareness of the importance of industrial pollution abatement. However, one of the major challenges of
EPAP future success is indeed sustainable environmental pollution abatement.



                                                  - 71 -

II. Impact and Effectiveness

A. EPAP Institutional component

1.      The participating EEAA units, RBOs and EMUs have significantly improved the efficiency and
        quality of industrial inspection. New initiatives have been introduced in enforcement policy.

EPAP has assisted in strengthening the enforcement of law 4/94 through the documentation of the
inspection procedures and the preparation of general and specific sector inspection guidelines. This is a
major impact of EPAP, as no official guidelines existed for inspection before. Furthermore, EPAP has
succeeded in producing a version of the inspection and self-monitoring manuals for Arab countries in
general, and disseminating them through the Arab League.

Capacity building of the inspectors has been successful in the fields of technical and juridical aspects of
industrial pollution as well as relevant inspection procedures. The practice of developing inspection
plans has been adopted. Coordination in planning and inspection between RBOs and EMUs have been
promoted. The quality of inspection documents has also improved. The impact has been a dramatic
increase in the number of planned industrial inspections. Furthermore, the training of trainers from the
beneficiary organizations has been successfully introduced. EEAA Inspection Unit has been a target
group to EPAP, as it coordinates inspection activities with different inspection entities being a
sustainable tool towards capacity building for newly established RBOs.

Based on EPAP's long experience with inspectors, industrial enterprises and environmental law
enforcement tools, softer enforcement approaches have been proposed to EEAA by introducing the
concept of signing negotiated agreements between EEAA and non-complying industries. This would
lead to a step-wise continuous improvement towards full compliance.           EPAP has introduced the
agreement structure ready for implementation and assessment through EEAA RBOs.

The objective of improving capacity and developing a more solid information base for assessing
industrial emissions have been fulfilled by the preparation of industrial emissions inventories, pollution
maps, cost of health degradation and cost of pollution abatement. The first step in estimating national
emission factors have been taken for the first time in Egypt. Moreover, the concept of pollution load has
been introduced to complement the enforcement practice. This focuses on concentration limits which
will result in stricter enforcement of the law. The industrial emission inventories will eventually lead to
more improvement in environmental quality.

A long-term impact on enforcement policy has been achieved by preparing the modification of the
Executive regulations of law 4/94 in order to incorporate EPAP lessons learned from the first years of
environmental law implementation. EPAP has produced modifications of the executive regulations of
Law 4/94 in order to promote cleaner production, self-monitoring, pollution loads, and negotiated
agreements. Furthermore, EPAP has taken the initiative of compiling all previous work for amending
the executive regulations for ratification.




                                                 - 72 -

   2.    National Cleaner Production Strategy has been developed and its Implementation initiated.

   In recognition of the importance of cleaner production, and its potential impacts on the environmental
   quality, a Cleaner Production Strategy and Action Plan is the fruit of continuous efforts of three years.
   This strategy has been prepared in a participatory approach with the formulation of an inter-ministerial
   committee. The Strategy is a step towards the modernization of industrial enterprises while fulfilling the
   objectives of sustainable development.

   3.    EPAP has supported the establishment of a permanent industrial unit in EEAA.

   The establishment of an industrial unit is a very important pillar for the sustainability of EPAP
   activities and for liaising all industrial activities within EEAA as well as with other stakeholders. It is
   anticipated that most of the Egyptian EPAP staff will move on to this new unit which will ensure the
   continuous compliance and enforcement efforts initiated by EPAP. The mandate of the industrial unit
   focuses on coordination with local and international stakeholders' activities and projects. It also aims at
   setting industrial environmental policies including different tools of environmental compliance and
   various enforcement procedures.        These include economic incentives and promoting awareness of
   environmental management systems and cleaner production.

   4.    Permanent training institutions contribute to EPAP sustainability.

   New partnership relations have been established between EEAA and permanent training institutions
   such as universities and technical institutes. EPAP manuals and training modules are now incorporated
   in academic curricula and research studies. This is expected to lead to sustainable industrial pollution
   abatement.



                                           EPAP Training Activities
                    Training Sector                                   Number of Participants
Institutional                                                                   896
Industrial                                                                      2,246
Financing                                                                        30
Media                                                                           275
NGO                                                                             1,049
Total No. of Participants = 4496

   On another level, EPAP has succeeded in building the capacity of local consultants through working
   closely with international consultants. Some of them have already become advisors to different
   Ministers and members of EEAA board while others act as faculty members in various academic
   institutions. This continues to disseminate EPAP expertise all over Egypt.

   B. EPAP Industrial component

   1.    Industrial emissions have been reduced through environmental investments and through
   assistance in indentifying environmental problems and solutions.

   EPAP has achieved major emission reductions directly through implementing 25 projects in 21



                                                       - 73 -

companies financed by the WB and EIB. The cases have covered different environmental media
including: air pollution, work environment, wastewater emissions, and solid waste recycling.

EPAP has provided technical services for about 75 industrial facilities to identify feasible projects for
pollution abatement. More than half of these companies have implemented their pollution abatement
projects through financing from WB and other funding bodies. The remaining companies have not been
able to implement their projects mainly because of lack of creditworthiness, and the presence of foreign
exchange risks.

EPAP has played a significant role in increasing awareness among industrial enterprises in the area of
cleaner production solutions to pollution problems.      Almost half of the implemented projects have
offered major economic benefits for the company in addition to the environmental benefits.

2.   Environmental management in industrial enterprises has been promoted through capacity
building in environmental self-monitoring and pollution abatement.

EPAP has had a major impact on establishing and developing self-monitoring systems in Egypt through
the preparation of self-training monitoring manuals and workshops. The pipeline companies have been
directly assisted in preparing and implementing self-monitoring schemes in order to follow up the
benefits of the implemented projects.


The Arab League has also requested a modified version of these manuals from EPAP in order to have
them disseminated to all Arab countries. EPAP has contributed to increased awareness among industrial
enterprises of the importance of self-monitoring in so far as legislative aspects and economic benefits
are concerned. Targeted training has covered different aspects of pollution abatement. Self-monitoring
has been pivotal in raising awareness on pollution abatement and environmental management issues.
This has resulted in increased awareness of the importance of environmental management development
in industrial enterprises. It has also led to increasing the number of ISO 14001 certified industrial
companies in Egypt (almost 100 companies so far).             The sustainability of such activities is
accomplished through continuous cooperation with the Workers University, national and regional
Universities and the Federation of Egyptian Industries (FEI) and its chambers.

Easy access to the internet for information on pollution abatement has been accomplished through the
Industrial Pollution Prevention Gateway website, developed by EPAP in collaboration with the
Environmental     Information    Department      of  EEAA,     and   hosted   on    EEAA      homepage:
www.eeaa.gov.eg/ippg/

C. EPAP Sustainable Financing Component

1.   WB financing package was fully allocated in environmental investments in industrial
enterprises.

The marketing of the WB soft loan required extensive marketing efforts, changes in the eligibility
criteria and an extension in time; however, EPAP has eventually been able to fully allocate a soft loan of
35 million U.S. dollars in industrial pollution abatement investments. This has proved that for a certain
segment of the large scale industry the incentive of 20% grant was a sufficient incentive for
implementing environmental or cleaner production projects.




                                                 - 74 -

2.   Improved capacity of financing environmental investment projects.

Assessing the risk and liability of environmental projects has been introduced to banks through the
production of a training module. The training module has been tested in one bank then it has been
implemented in the Banking Institute (affiliated with the Central Bank of Egypt). This has guaranteed
disseminating such training activities in the Egyptian banking sector in general.

One of the tangible impacts of EPAP on banks is the development of environmental strategies, and the
establishment of dedicated environmental departments in financial institutions such as the National
Bank of Egypt.



D. EPAP Media & NGO Awareness component

1.   Improved public awareness on issues of industrial pollution.

Through a participatory planning exercise, EPAP has developed and implemented a number of training
activities, seminars, workshops, site visits to industrial establishments, and a study tour to Finland.
These activities, accompanied with a close working relationship with the media community, have
succeeded in increasing the number of media articles and programs, produced on industrial pollution,
and thereby raising awareness. EPAP has also facilitated the interaction between media representatives
and government officials which has had a great impact on the quality of the media output. Moreover,
the information sheets prepared by EPAP and the success stories of WB financed projects are
considered an important source for information on industrial pollution.

The evaluation of the Media and Awareness component has shown an improvement in the quality of
local media due to the capacity building activities arranged by EPAP in collaboration with Al Ahram
Regional Press Center. Such collaboration ensures the sustainalbe direct impact of media training
modules on curbing industrial pollution problems.

The Media have contributed significantly to the marketing of the WB financing package and
highlighting creditworthiness problems, faced by some state-owned polluting industries. This media
coverage has resulted in ministerial intervention and increased motivation for banks to find solutions to
this problem, and provide funding for important industrial environmental projects.

The efficiency of the media component has been strongly linked with the communication policy of
EEAA. Continuous information on industrial pollution will be sustained through the newly established
EEAA industrial unit, EEAA newsletter, and the Industrial Pollution Prevention gateway on EEAA
website.

2.   Major increase in NGO activities in the field of industrial pollution awareness.

EPAP has managed to establish four contracts in raising awareness in the area of industrial pollution
abatement with the following NGOs.




                                                 - 75 -

No.                                    NGO                                         Governorate
 1. Friends of the Environment Association in Alexandria (FEAA)                     Alexandria
 2. Nile Guards and Environment Protectors Association (NAGEPA)                     Qaliobeya
 3. Egyptian Society for Environment and Industrial Enterprises (ESEI)                 Suez
 4. Association for Health and Environmental Development (AHED)                        Cairo

Each of the four NGOs has addressed the issues of industrial environmental compliance differently;
however, they have all succeeded in lobbying for better industrial practices. In addition to the wide
reach of the activities agreed on with the four NGOs, EPAP has facilitated the formation of a network
of NGOs interested in industrial pollution abatement. The various target groups in FEAA NGO
activities in Alexandria have included 749 participants, representing industrial establishments, banks,
non-governmental organizations (NGOs), media representatives, educational institutions, and
environmental inspectors. AHED training modules are likely to have a long-term effect in building
capacity of 20 participating NGOs. ESEI has succeeded in reaching out to the industrial community in
Suez whereas NAGEPA has succeeded in engaging a group of 40 youths and 200 industrial enterprises
in Shoubra El Kheima (Qaliobeya) in active promotion of environmental compliance.

NGOs activities have assisted in disseminating information about the requirements of environmental law
and the World Bank financing package. Problems of creditworthiness in many companies have been
discussed thoroughly during NGO activities with the banks and industrial enterprises. They have also
been brought up during arranged public events in the presence of banks, industrial enterprises, NGOs
and governmental officials.

III. Lessons Learned


EPAP is not expected to solve the problem of industrial pollution; rather, it is intended to act as a pilot
project for introducing mechanisms of enforcement, voluntary environmental management and
sustainable environmental financing. This purpose of EPAP has been achieved.

Basically, the merging of the WB financing package as well as the technical and institutional support
from Finland has been a successful strategy. Establishing a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) as an
independent unit, but within the official EEAA structure, has proved successful. The sustainability of
results has been ensured by establishing the Industrial Unit within EEAA by the ministerial decree
33/2004. The Ministry of State for Environmental Affairs has assumed full ownership of EPAP
operations. This has led to continuous coordination between the Ministry departments and EPAP
management in all activities. It has added to the success of the project, building on EEAA expertise and
official support.

The lag between the start of the EPAP two components, that is Technical Assistance (TA) Component
(January 1997) and WB financing component (January 1999), has led to a rather hesitant start. The TA
has concentrated on assisting in the implementation of the newly promulgated environmental law (Law
4/1994) as EEAA has been still with limited capacities in terms of qualified personnel and other
resources. Complicated design of the technical assistance in the original design of the project prevented
efficient management and synergy between activities.




                                                - 76 -

Involving the stakeholders in setting a project work plan has guaranteed project success. The flexibility
of EPAP planning mechanism has allowed seizing new emerging opportunities in enforcement policy.
This has led to successful strategies such as: the cleaner production, significant amendments to the
executive regulations and the introduction of the negotiated agreement scheme.

EPAP experience with industrial enterprises has proved the success of cleaner production investment
projects, attracting industrial enterprises rather than end-of-pipe projects due to their economic and
environmental benefits. This has highlighted the need for EPAP initiative to produce the first national
cleaner production strategy in collaboration with nine concerned ministries.

Another lesson learned has been that a project cannot achieve far reaching effects in the field of
inspector training before a reasonable framework of a national enforcement policy is in place. Unified
inspection guidelines have been needed.          Policies regarding complaints management, step-wise
compliance and division of tasks have had to be tackled before individual inspectors could use their
acquired technical know-how efficiently.

Involving training institutions and industrial organizations in the training has been essential in attracting
high numbers of participants and in ensuring sustainability and wide dissemination of gained
experience. A lot of overlapping training activities have been avoided thanks to effective coordination
between donor projects, EEAA concerned departments, and EPAP.



IV. Recommendations & Conclusion

1.  Strengthen partnerships at the national level with other stakeholders: ministries, private sector,
and associations in fulfillment of protocols and action plans such as the Cleaner Production Strategy.
Continue developing partnership with banks to provided sustainable financing mechanisms for
environmental investments in industrial enterprises. Support bilateral and international partnership in
implementing international agreements.

2.  Disseminate EPAP expertise to RBOs, and EMUs, using inspection manuals and training
modules. There should be periodical updating of inspection and self-monitoring manuals. Manuals
should be amended to cover additional sectors and SMEs. Follow up on training institutions for
implementing EPAP training modules and manuals. Build on the development of the inspection system
as unified inspection policies and continuous evaluation of the inspection system. Ensure coordination
with other inspection entities.

3.  Activate new mechanisms introduced by EPAP for compliance.                    This includes additional
amendments to the executive regulations with more guidelines for calculating loads for industrial sectors
not covered by EPAP. Implement softer enforcement tools like negotiated agreements. Consider
amending the Law for itself, for example by introducing a system of administrative fines. Integrate the
use of market based instruments in the field of environmental protection like using economic incentives.



4.  Highlight gender awareness and liability in industrial pollution abatement. This involves
educating women labor force to be more aware of occupational hazards and safety measures. Empower
women to take more positive measures to combat industrial pollution.

5.  Assign a spokesperson for EEAA communicating with the media and providing it with


                                                 - 77 -

information. Continue developing the communication policy and the dissemination of environmental
information, and support the capacity building of local media.

6.   Sustain NGOs capacity building activities especially in developing lobbying and networking
skills and promoting their initiatives to combat industrial pollution.

7.   Activate community involvement. EEAA could organize public-hearing sessions, seeking public
involvement in identifying and prioritizing environmental needs. Organize public hearing-sessions on
environmental impact assessments (EIAs) for new industrial facilities, working in collaboration with
local environmental NGOs.

8.   Egyptian industrial enterprises are recommended to continue integrating Environmental
management systems and self-monitoring into their business management, and to adopt cleaner
production policy and practice.

EPAP (1997­2004) has succeeded in assisting various Egyptian Industries to comply with
environmental regulations through implementing environmental projects, strengthening inspection
capacity, raising awareness on the importance of pollution abatement, and introducing the concepts of
self-monitoring and cleaner production.        Since the project launch in 1997 EPAP has achieved
considerable progress in ensuring the participation of various stakeholders which has eventually resulted
in ownership of the project and sustainability of activities. To build on EPAP expertise and success an
Industrial Unit has been established within EEAA (according to the Ministerial Decree 33/2004). On
another level, EPAP II - a new project which aims at sustainable industrial pollution abatement, based
on the lessons learned, and expertise gained from EPAP I - is being negotiated for future implementation
in Alexandria Governorate with support from GOE, WB and other donor agencies. Indeed the purpose
is to secure continuous commitment of Industrial Enterprises to preserving a cleaner environment free
from pollution, and to activate effective tools to enforce environmental pollution abatement.




                                                  - 78 -

- 79 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2005
34260                                                                                                      ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
     IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SEPTEMBER
                                                                                                                           SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                        1 PROJECT SITES

                                                                                                                           GOVERNORATE CAPITALS

                ARAB REPUBLIC                                                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                 GOVERNORATES IN NILE DELTA:

                        OF EGYPT                                                                                           RIVERS                                                          1 KAFR EL SHEIKH                7 DAGAHLIYA
                                                                                                                                                                                           2 DAMIETTA                      8 MENOUFIYA
                                                                                                                           MAIN ROADS                                                      3 PORT SAID                     9 SHARGIYAH
                                                                                                                                                                                           4 ALEXANDRIA                  10 QALIUBIYA
                                                                                                                           RAILROADS                                                       5 BEHEIRA                     11 ISMAILIA
                                                                                                                                                                                           6 GHARBIYA                    12 CAIRO
                                                                                                                           GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



                                25E                                                                        30E                                                                                     35E


                                                                                                                                                                   WEST BANK
               To                                                                                                                                                   AND GAZA              To
              Darnah                                              M e d i t e r r a n e a n                   S e a                                                                     Tel Aviv

                                      Salum
                                                                  Marsa Matruh                        1                                             Damietta
                                                                                                                                                    Damietta
                                                                                                                          1Sheikh
                                                                                                                            Kafr el
                                                                                                                            Kafr el         2
                                                                                                 Alexandria                 Sheikh                        Port Said El'Arish
                  L i b y a n P l a t e a u                                                                                                               3                                                    JORDAN
                                                                                                       DamanhurDamanhur    2             El Mansura
                                                                                                                                         El Mansura                                      ISRAEL
                                                                                                         4                    6 3        7
                                                                                                                          Tanta
                                                                                                                            nta               4       9

                                                                                                        Shibin el Kom
                                                                                                        Shibin el Kom           5         Zagizig
                                                                                                                                          Zagizig         Ismailia
                                                                                                                                                          Ismailia     NORTHERN
                                                                                                                                                                       NORTHERN
                                                                                                              5            BenhaBenha
                                                                                                                                       6            7 1111                 SINAI
                                                                                                                                                                           SINAI
          30N                                                                                                          8   10
                                                                                                                           10                                                                                                           30N
                                                                         QattaraQattara                                                 CAIROCAIRO
                                                                                                                            GizaGiza                        8Suez
                                                                                                                                                              Suez
                                                                       Depression
                                                                       Depression                                                        12
                                                                                                                                         12
                                                         QaraQara                                                                                                                         Taba
                                                                                                                                                                                           aba

                                                                                                           El Fayoum
                                                                                                           El Fayoum                                                      SOUTHERN
                                                                                                                                                                          SOUTHERN
                                 SiwaSiwa                                                                                                            SUEZ
                                                                                                                                                     SUEZ
                                                MARSA MATRUH
                                                MARSA MATRUH                                          EL F YOUM
                                                                                                      EL AYOUM 9                                                             SINAI
                                                                                                                                                                             SINAI
                                                                                                                                       Beni Suef
                                                                                                                                       Beni Suef               Gulf
                                                                                                           BENI SUEF
                                                                                                           BENI SUEF                                                      Abu Zenima
                                                                                                                                                                          Abu Zenima
                                                                                                                                                                   of                              Aqaba
                                                                                            G I Z A                                                                  Suez                                            SAUDI
                                                                                                                                                                                                 of
                                                                                                                                                        Ras Gharib
                                                                                                                                                        Ras Gharib                              f
                                                                                                        AL MINYA
                                                                                                        AL MINY                                                                El Tur
                                                                                                                                                                               El            Gul
                                                                                                           Al Minya
                                                                                                           Al Minya                                             E                                                   ARABIA
                                                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                                                      s
           LIBYA               L                                                                                               NileNile                 AL BAHRt
                                                                                                                                                        AL BAHR           e
                                i                                                                          ASSIUT
                                                                                                           ASSIUT                      AssiutAssiut                        r      Al Ghurdaqah
                                 b                                                                                                                     AL AHMAR
                                                                                                                                                       AL AHMAR             n
                                   y                                                                                                      RiverRiver
                                                     W e s t e r n                                                                                                                  Bir Seiyala
                                                                                                                                                    Sohag
                                                                                                                                                    Sohag
                                 L  a                                                                                                                   SOHAG
                                                                                                                                                        SOHAG                  D                          Red
                                  i n                                                                                                                              Qena
                                                                                                                                                                   Qena          e
                                                                                                                                                                                          Quseir .
                                    b                        D e s e r t                                                                                           10             s e                     Sea
                                     y D                                                                                                                             QENA
                                                                                                                                                                     QENA
                                                                                                                                                                LuxorLuxor
                                      a                                                                                                                                              r t
                                          e                  A L WA D I                   MutMut.       El-KhargaEl-Kharga

          25N                            n s                 A L J A D I D                                                                                                                               Marsa 'Alam                    25N
                                            e
                                           D  r                                                                                                                           ASWANASWAN

                                             e t                                                                                                                       Kom Ombo
                                                                                                                                                                       Kom Ombo

                                               s                                                                                                    Aswan Dam          Aswan
                                                                                                                                                                       Aswan
                          EPAP: PROJECT SITE BY SUB-PROJECTS AND COMPANIES
                                                e
            To                    Location                   Sub-projects financed                Companies
           Jalu                                  r
                      1 - Alexandria              t                     7                             6                                               LakeLake
                      2 - Kafr El Zayat                                 1                             1                                              Nasser
                                                                                                                                                     Nasser
                      3 - Talkha                                        1                             1
                      4 - Kafr Azzazi (Sharqyia)                        1                             1
                      5 - Benha                                         1                             1
                      6 - El-Khosoos (Quallubia)                        1                             1                                                                                                                         Halaib
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Halaib

                      7 - Tenth of Ramadan                              8                             5
                      8 - Suez                                          3                             3
                      9 - Fayoum                                        1                             1                                                                    S U D A N
                      10 - Nag-Hamadi (Qena)                            1                             1
                                                    Total              25                            21
                                                                                                                                                                             0      50      100          150  200 Kilometers
                                                                                                                          To                                       To                                                               To
                                                                                                                 Dongola                                       Berber                                                        Port Sudan

                                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                         0           50               100      150 Miles
          20N                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                    20N
                                     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                       25E                                                                                 30E                                                                                             35E

