Page  1
CONFORMEF COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3024 EGT
Development Credit Agreement
(Pollution Abatement Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 12, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3024 EGT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 12, 1998, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by agreement dated November 13, 1996 (the GOF Grant Agreement) the 
Government of Finland (GOF) has agreed to make a grant (the GOF Grant) to the borrower 
in an amount equivalent to five million six hundred thousand ($5,600,000) to assist in 
financing Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the GOF Grant 
Agreement;
(C)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by the National Investment Bank 
(NIB) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to NIB the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(D)
by agreement (the Loan Agreement) of even date herewith between the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and NIB, the Bank has 
agreed to make a loan (the Loan) to NIB, with the guarantee of the Borrower, in an 
amount equal to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000) to assist in financing Part B of 
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and NIB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 of Article III is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 of Article V is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit Account, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount 
of the Credit shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(b)
“Subsidiary Financing Agreement” and “Subsidiary Finance” mean, 
respectively: (i) the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and NIB 
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
to time; and (ii) the proceeds of the Credit made available pursuant to the Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement.
(c)
“Subsidiary Apex Agreement” and “Apex Finance” mean respectively, (i) the 
Page  3
agreement to be entered into between NIB pursuant to Paragraph 1 of schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and (ii) the proceeds 
of the Credit made available pursuant to the subsidiary Apex Agreement.
(d)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and NIB 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time. 
(e)
“Statutes” means Presidential Decree No. 119 of 1980, pertaining to the 
establishment and operations of NIB, as amended by the date of this Agreement.
(f)
“Statement of Policy” means the statement of lending and investment 
policy of NIB, adopted by the Board of Directors of NIB on January 10, 1981, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement.
(g)
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Apex Bank, or 
by a Participating Bank, to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project in part out of the 
equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(h)
“Sub-grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Apex Bank to 
a Beneficiary for a Sub-project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(i)
“Sub-project” means a specific project to be carried out by a Beneficiary 
utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan or a Sub-grant.
(j)
“Beneficiary” means any public or private  industrial enterprise to which 
the Apex Bank or a participating Bank proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan or a 
Sub-grant.
(k)
“Apex Bank” means a banking institution, approved by the Bank, with which 
NIB has entered into a Subsidiary Participating Agreement.
(l)
“Participating Bank” means any banking institution, approved by the Bank, 
with which the Apex Bank has entered into a Subsidiary Participating Agreement.
(m)
“Subsidiary Participating Agreement” and “Participating Finance” mean, 
respectively: (i) any agreement entered into between the Apex Bank and a Participating 
Bank pursuant to paragraph 1 (b) (i) of the Annex to Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement; and (ii) the proceeds of the Subsidiary Finance made available to a 
Participating Bank pursuant to a Subsidiary Participating Agreement.
(n)
“EEAA” means the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency of the Borrower, 
or any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ten million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR10,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for amounts 
paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals 
made by Beneficiaries to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for 
Sub-projects in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
For the purposes of the Project, the Borrower may, through NIB, open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Apex Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2003, or such later date 
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
Page  4
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment 
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 2008 and ending July 15, 2032. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2017, shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semi-annual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Page  5
Section 2.09. NIB is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.10. The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of 
Finance for the purpose of handling, on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments 
with respect to the Credit. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, 
environmental and financial 
practices and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other 
resources required for said Part; and
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower 
shall cause NIB to perform all its 
obligations set forth in the 
Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NIB to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall: (i) coordinate the overall implementation of the Project, and (ii) carry out 
Part A of the Project, in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Credit to NIB under 
a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and NIB, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and which 
shall include those set forth in paragraph 2 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for Part B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitations thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
Page  6
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part B of the 
Project shall be carried out by NIB pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
cause to be maintained in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
cause the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing  
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
cause to be furnished to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; 
and
(iii)
cause to be furnished to the Association such other information 
concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as 
the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
NIB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that NIB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Statutes or the Statement of Policy shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of NIB to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of NIB or for the suspension of its 
operations.
(e)
 (i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
Page  7
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of Article VII of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and NIB;
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the provisions of paragraph (f) (ii) of that 
Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of Article XII of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and NIB;
(b)
the Subsidiary Apex Agreement has been executed on behalf of NIB and the 
Apex Bank; and
(c)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have 
been fulfilled, other than the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by NIB, 
and is legally binding upon NIB, in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and NIB, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and NIB, in 
accordance with its terms; and
(c)
that the Subsidiary Apex Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by NIB and the Apex Bank, and is legally binding upon NIB and the Apex Bank, in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Page  8
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of State for International Cooperation or the Head of the Sector for International and 
Regional Financing Organizations of the Ministry of International Cooperation of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of International Cooperation
   (International and Regional Financing 
   Organizations Sector)
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Egypt
Cable address:
Fax:
Ministry of International
391-5167
Cooperation, Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s/ Zafer El-Bishry
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Khalid Ikram
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  9
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
        % of
(Expressed in SDR 
  Expenditures
Category
   Equivalent)
 to be Financed
(1)
Sub-loans
5,820,000
23% of amounts 
paid by the Apex Bank
and Participating Banks
(2)
Sub-grants
5,080,000
100% of amounts paid
by the Apex Bank
_________
TOTAL
      10,900,000
      ==========
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
3.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower, for payments made on account of 
Sub-loans and Sub-grants.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to reduce industrial pollution through: (a) 
strengthening of institutional capabilities in environmental monitoring and 
enforcement; and (b) financing of pollution abatement investments.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
A program, including the provision therefor of technical assistance, studies, 
training, monitoring equipment and field vehicles, to:
1.
strengthen the technical and administrative capacities of EEAA’s three Regional 
Branches and four Environmental Management Units in the Borrower’s Governorates of 
Cairo, Alexandria, Qalyoubia and Suez to facilitate the preparation, monitoring and 
enforcement of pollution abatement plans for the said Governorates and for industrial 
enterprises operating therein;
2.
develop pollution abatement action plans for major industrial polluters;
3.
(a)
carry out in-plant environmental audits of industrial enterprises to 
prepare environmental investments for financing under Part B of the Project, and
(b)
train relevant personnel of: (i) the public and private sector in 
environmental auditing and financing, (ii) banking institutions in the development and 
application of appropriate guidelines for the evaluation of environmental investments, 
and (iii) plant managers in the protection of workers’ health and safety; and
4.
carry out promotion awareness and media education programs in pollution 
prevention and control, including support for the participation of local communities 
in the preparation, monitoring and follow-up on the Governorates and enterprise 
pollution abatement plans through technical and administrative support and training to 
non-governmental organizations, local press, professional associations and interest 
groups involved in industrial pollution abatement activities.
Page  10
Part B:
The financing, through the provision of: (1) Sub-loans by the Apex Bank and 
Participating Banks, and (2) Sub-grants by the Apex Bank, of specific cost-effective 
pollution abatement investments by Beneficiaries to bring effluent discharges and air 
emissions of existing facilities toward compliance with the applicable laws and 
regulations of the Borrower.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program; Terms and Conditions 
of the Subsidiary Financing Agreement
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
1.
The Borrower shall: (a) cause to be maintained arrangements, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the carrying out of Part A of the Project, for assisting NIB, the 
Apex Bank and the Participating Banks in the carrying out of their activities under 
Part B of the Project, and for the overall coordination and supervision of Project 
implementation, including through the maintenance, with staff and other resources and 
terms of reference agreed with the Association, of (i) a Steering Committee comprising 
of representatives of EEAA, the Borrower’s Ministries of Environmental Affairs, 
Finance, Planning, International Cooperation, Public Works and Water Resources, and 
Public Enterprise Sector, and non-governmental organizations, NIB, the Apex Bank and 
Participating Banks, the Federation of Egyptian Industries, and the Egyptian Business 
Association, to be responsible for the oversight of Project implementation and the 
provision of policy guidance thereunder and for reviewing and recommending for 
financing under Part B of the Project all Sub-projects proposed to be financed through 
the provision of Sub-loans and Sub-grants of more than the equivalent of $2,000,000 in 
the aggregate each, and (ii) a Project Implementation Unit within EEAA, headed by a 
full time Project Manager, to be primarily responsible for the management of the 
carrying out of Part A of the Project, for reviewing and recommending for financing 
under Part B of the Project all Sub-projects proposed to be financed through the 
provision of Sub-loans and Sub-grants not exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000 in 
the aggregate each, for the technical evaluation of Sub-projects, for entering into a 
Sub-project technical implementation agreement with each Beneficiary, in the format 
agreed with the Association, to monitor and ensure that the Sub-project is carried out 
in accordance with appropriate technical, environmental, health and safety practices, 
and for ensuring that the procurement of goods and works financed under Sub-loans and 
Sub-grants is undertaken in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and (b) employ consultants, with qualifications and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, to assist in the carrying out of the tasks referred 
to herein.
2.
For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall make 
available the proceeds of the Credit to NIB, under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement, 
on the following terms:
(a)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Finance shall be the equivalent in 
dollars (determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account) 
of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of 
withdrawals under Sub-loans and Sub-grants; and
(b)
the Subsidiary Finance shall be (A) charged interest on the principal 
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at a rate not 
exceeding 0.875% per annum, (B) charged a commitment fee on the principal amount 
thereof not withdrawn from time to time at the same rate applicable to the Credit 
pursuant to Section 2.04 (a) of this Agreement, and (C) repaid over a term not 
exceeding thirty-five (35) years, including a grace period not exceeding ten (10) 
years.
Page  11
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) cause to be prepared and furnished to the Association, 
by July 31 of each year, a list of, and the implementation schedule for, the pollution 
abatement action plans to be developed during the following year under Sub-part 2 of 
Part A of the Project; and (b) thereafter, develop and carry out the same, taking into 
consideration the Association’s views on the matter.
4.
The Borrower shall: (a) cause to be maintained procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and assess, on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators agreed with 
the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; (b) cause to be prepared, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association: (i) by November 30 of each two (2) year 
period, a report, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period of 24 months preceding the date of such report, 
and (ii) on or about October 30, 2000, a mid-term report, integrating the data and 
other information contained in the reports prepared pursuant to subparagraph (b) (i) 
above, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project during the period 
preceding the date thereof and on the progress achieved in establishing an economic 
incentive framework for environmental protection, and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project during the period 
following such date; and (c) review with the Association, NIB, the Apex Bank and EEAA 
each such report and, thereafter, cause to be taken all measures required to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of such report and the 
Association's views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of amounts 
paid on account of Sub-loans and Sub-grants, to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$1,500,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $750,000, in the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
 (i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
Page  12
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
Page  13
including the General Conditions.
