Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4263 EGT
Loan Agreement
(Pollution Abatement Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NATIONAL INVESTMENT BANK 
Dated February 12, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4263 EGT
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 12, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NATIONAL INVESTMENT BANK (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Arab Republic of Egypt (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having 
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan;
(C)
by agreement (the Development Credit Agreement) of even date herewith 
between the Guarantor and the International Development Association (the Association), 
the Association has agreed to make a credit (the Credit) to the Guarantor, in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR10,900,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that: (1) the Guarantor agree to 
make available to the Borrower, under a subsidiary financing agreement (the Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement) to be entered into between the Guarantor and the Borrower, the 
proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement to assist 
in financing of Part B of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and (2) the Borrower agrees to undertake such 
obligations towards the Association as set forth in an agreement (the Project 
Agreement) of even date herewith between the Association and the Borrower; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 with the 
modifications set forth below, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Statutes” means Presidential Decree No. 119 of 1980, pertaining to the 
establishment and operations of the Borrower, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement.
(b)
“Statement of Policy” means the statement of lending and investment 
policy of the Borrower adopted by the Board of Directors of the Borrower on January 
10, 1981, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(c)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(d)
“Subsidiary Apex Agreement” and “Apex Finance” mean respectively: (i) the 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Apex Bank pursuant to 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (ii) the proceeds of the Loan made 
available pursuant to the Subsidiary Apex Agreement.
(e)
“Apex Bank” means a banking institution, approved by the Bank, with which 
the Borrower has entered into the Subsidiary Apex Agreement.
(f)
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Apex Bank or 
Page  3
by a Participating Bank to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project in part out of the proceeds 
of the Loan.
(g)
“Sub-project” means a specific project to be carried out by a Beneficiary 
utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan.
(h)
“Beneficiary” means any public or private industrial enterprise to which 
the Apex Bank or a Participating Bank proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan.
(i)
“Participating Bank” means any banking institution, approved by the Bank, 
with which the Apex Bank has entered into a Subsidiary Participating Agreement.
(j)
“Subsidiary Participating Agreement” and “Participating Finance” mean, 
respectively: (i) any agreement entered into between the Apex Bank and a Participating 
Bank pursuant to paragraph 2 (a) the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (ii) 
the proceeds of the Loan made available to a Participating Bank pursuant to a 
Subsidiary Participating Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty 
million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for amounts paid 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made by 
Beneficiaries under Sub-loans to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Sub-projects in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account 
is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account on its books on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2003, or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding, the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
Page  4
per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); and (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for 
such Interest Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable July 15 and January 15 
in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project; 
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound 
financial standards and practices, with qualified management and staff, and in 
accordance with the Statutes and the Statement of Policy.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
In consideration of the Guarantor entering into the Guarantee Agreement 
with the Bank, the Borrower shall pay to the Guarantor a guarantee fee at the rate of 
0.125% per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitations thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Page  5
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and records adequate to 
monitor and record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project 
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in 
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and 
financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
its accounts 
and financial state\1fments (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses 
and related statements) and records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited in 
accordance with sound auditing principles 
consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of said 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements and the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(b)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of Article VI of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, the Statutes or the 
Statement of Policy shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived 
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in 
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Page  6
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Apex Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and the Apex Bank; and
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development Credit 
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement.
Section 6.02.  The following is specified as additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Apex Agreement 
has been duly authorized or satisfied by the Borrower and the Apex Bank, and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Apex Bank, in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Chairman of the Board of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
National Investment Bank
18 Abdel Meguid El Rimali
Bab El Louk
Cairo, Egypt
Fax: 
(202) 356-2004/
(202) 578-0613
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  7
By /s/ Khalid Ikram
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa 
NATIONAL INVESTMENT BANK
By /s/ Zafer El-Bishry
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account to finance 57% 
of payments made on account of Sub-loans.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made on account of Sub-loans prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for payments made on account of Sub-loans, under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist in financing pollution abatement 
investments as will contribute to the reduction of industrial pollution.
The Project consists of the following, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
The financing, through the provision of Sub-loans by the Apex Bank and the 
Participating Banks, of specific cost-effective pollution abatement investments by 
Beneficiaries to bring effluent discharges and air emissions of said Beneficiaries’ 
existing facilities towards compliance with the applicable laws and regulations of the 
Guarantor.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
July 15, 2003
420,000 
January 15, 2004
430,000 
July 15, 2004 
445,000 
January 15, 2005
460,000 
July 15, 2005 
470,000 
January 15, 2006 
485,000 
July 15, 2006 
500,000 
January 15, 2007 
515,000 
July 15, 2007 
530,000 
January 15, 2008 
545,000
Page  8
July 15, 2008 
565,000 
January 15, 2009 
580,000 
July 15, 2009 
600,000 
January 15, 2010 
615,000 
July 15, 2010 
635,000 
January 15, 2011 
655,000 
July 15, 2011 
675,000 
January 15, 2012 
695,000 
July 15, 2012 
715,000 
January 15, 2013 
740,000
July 15, 2013 
760,000 
January 15, 2014 
785,000 
July 15, 2014 
805,000 
January 15, 2015 
830,000 
July 15, 2015 
855,000 
January 15, 2016 
880,000 
July 15, 2016 
910,000 
January 15, 2017 
935,000 
July 15, 2017 
965,000 
January 15, 2018 
     1,000,000
___________________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of Article IV of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Schedule, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods to be procured by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public 
procurement procedures, which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited 
number of suppliers, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods to be procured by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public 
procurement procedures, estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Page  9
Goods to be procured by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public 
procurement procedures, estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent of less per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Commercial Practice
Goods to be procured by purchasers not required to follow the Borrower’s public 
procurement procedures, estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent or less per contract, 
may be procured in accordance with the normal commercial practices of such purchasers 
at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time 
of delivery and efficiency and reliability of goods and availability of maintenance 
facilities and spare parts therefor.
Part D: 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
1.
For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall make available 
the proceeds of the loan to the Apex Bank, under the Subsidiary Apex Agreement, on the 
conditions set forth in the Annex to this Schedule, and on the following terms:
(a)
the Apex Finance shall be charged (i): on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at a rate equal to the rate 
applicable to the Loan Agreement, plus a margin of not more than 0.125% per annum, and 
(ii) on the principal amount thereof not withdrawn from time to time, commitment 
charge at the same rate applicable to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement; and
(b)
the Apex Finance shall be repaid over a term not exceeding 20 years, 
including a grace period not exceeding five (5) years.
2.
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Apex Agreement in 
such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the Bank and to achieve 
the purposes of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Apex Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Annex to Schedule 5
The provisions of this Annex shall apply for the purposes of paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
1.
The Apex Bank undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans 
will be made to Beneficiaries, either:
(a)
through the Participating Banks under Subsidiary Participating Agreements 
to be entered into between the Borrower and each such Participating Bank on terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall include those 
set forth in Attachment A to this Annex; or
Page  10
(b)
directly by the Apex Bank on the terms and conditions set forth in 
Attachment B to this Annex.
2.
The Apex Bank shall take all measures to ensure that the aggregate amount of any 
or all Sub-loans to any one Beneficiary shall not exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000, 
when added to any other amount financed or proposed to be financed by the Apex Bank or 
the Participating Banks out of the proceeds of the Loan and the proceeds of the 
Credit; provided, however, that such aggregate amount may be increased to the 
equivalent of $8,000,000 in cases where the Steering Committee, referred to in Section 
3.01 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement, determines, and the Bank agrees, that such an 
increase is required to finance urgent industrial pollution abatement investments to 
reduce high levels of toxic substances or heavy metals emissions in densely populated 
areas.
3.
The right of the Apex Bank to the use of the Apex Finance shall be: (a) 
suspended upon failure of the Apex Bank to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Apex Agreement, and (b) terminated if such right shall have been suspended 
pursuant to subparagraph (a) hereof for a continuous period of 60 days.
4.
(i)  The Apex Bank shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condition; 
(ii)  have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;  (iii)  furnish  to the Association and the Borrower, as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, certified 
copies of said financial statements and accounts for such year as so audited, and the 
report of such audit by said auditors in such scope and detail as the Bank or the 
Borrower shall have reasonably requested; and (iv)  furnish to the Bank and the 
Borrower such other information concerning said records, accounts and financial 
statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank or the Borrower shall from time 
to time reasonably request.
5.
The Apex Bank shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Participating 
Agreements in such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the Bank 
and the Borrower and to achieve the purposes of the Project, and, except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such Agreement.
6.
The Apex Bank shall coordinate and monitor the overall execution of the Project, 
the carrying out by the Participating Banks of their obligations pursuant to their 
respective Subsidiary Participating Agreement and the carrying out by Beneficiaries of 
their obligations pursuant to their respective agreements with the Apex Bank and the 
Participating Banks providing for Sub-loans, in accordance with policies and 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Attachment A to the 
Annex to Schedule 5
Principal Terms and Conditions of 
Subsidiary Participating Agreements
The provisions of this Annex shall apply for the purposes of paragraph 2 (a) of 
the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
1.
The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the Loan to a 
Participating Bank under its respective Subsidiary Participating Agreement shall be 
denominated in dollars and be the equivalent of the aggregate amount relent by the 
Apex Bank and utilized by such Participating Bank in the making of Sub-loans.
2.
The Participating Finance shall be charged on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at a rate equal to the rate 
applicable to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement, plus a margin of 
not more than 0.25% per annum, as such margin may be adjusted from time to time as 
agreed between the Bank and the Apex Bank.
3.
The Participating Finance shall be repaid in accordance with an amortization 
Page  11
schedule pursuant to which each portion thereof utilized in the making of a Sub-loan 
shall have a maturity calculated to conform to the amortization schedule applicable to 
such Sub-loan.
4.
The right of a Participating Bank to the use of the proceeds of its respective 
Participating Finance shall be: (a) suspended upon failure of such Participating Bank 
to perform any of its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Participating 
Agreement; and (b) terminated if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to 
subparagraph (a) hereof for a continuous period of sixty (60) days.
5.
Each respective Subsidiary Participating Agreement shall contain provisions 
pursuant to which each respective Participating Bank shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out its activities under the Project and conduct its operations and 
affairs in accordance with appropriate financial standards and practices, with 
qualified staff, and in accordance with appropriate investment and lending policies 
and procedures, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the purpose;
(b)
(i) make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries on the terms and conditions set forth 
in Attachment B to the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (ii) exercise its rights 
in relation to each such Sub-loan in such manner as to protect its interests and the 
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, comply with its obligations under its 
respective Subsidiary Participating Agreement and achieve the purposes of the Project; 
(iii) not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing for 
Sub-loans, or any provision thereof, without prior approval of the Apex Bank; and (iv) 
appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report on the carrying out by 
Beneficiaries of Sub-projects, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank 
and the Apex Bank;
(c)
(i) exchange views with, and furnish all such information to the Apex 
Bank, as may be reasonably requested by the Bank or the Apex Bank, with regard to the 
progress of its activities under the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
its respective Subsidiary Participating Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Project; and (ii) promptly inform the Apex Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its activities under its 
respective Subsidiary Participating Agreement; and
(d)
(i) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condition; (ii) have its 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Apex Bank; 
(iii) furnish to the Apex Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such year, certified copies of said financial 
statements and accounts for such year as so audited, and the report of such audit by 
said auditors in such scope and detail as the Bank or the Apex Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Apex Bank such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements, as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank or the Apex Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Attachment B to the 
Annex to Schedule 5
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
The provisions of this Attachment shall apply for the purposes of paragraph 2 
(b) of the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement and paragraph 5 (b) (i) of Attachment 
A to said Annex.
1.
(a)
The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be denominated and be the 
equivalent in dollars or in the currency of the Guarantor (determined as of the date 
or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan account or payment out of the Special 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on 
account of the cost of goods and services financed out of such proceeds for the 
Sub-project.
Page  12
(b)
Each Sub-loan shall be: (a) charged interest, on the principal amount 
thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate determined by the Apex 
Bank or the Participating Bank making such Sub-loan in accordance with the applicable 
investment and lending policies and practices of the Apex Bank or the Participating 
Bank; and (b) made for a period determined pursuant to said policies and practices and 
not exceeding eight (8) years, inclusive of a grace period of up to two (2) years.
2.
No expenditures for a Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of a Sub-loan unless:
(a)
such Sub-project shall have been determined by the Apex Bank or the 
Participating Bank, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with 
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank: (i) to be cost effective and technically feasible 
and in conformity with environmental guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, and with 
all applicable laws and regulations of the Guarantor relating to health, safety and 
environmental protection, established pursuant to an environmental audit and confirmed 
as such by the Project Implementation Unit referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of the 
Guarantee Agreement; (ii) to have been reviewed and recommended for financing out of 
the proceeds of the Credit by, as the case may be, said Project Implementation Unit or 
by the Steering Committee referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement; 
and (iii) in respect of which the Beneficiary shall have entered into the Sub-project 
technical implementation agreement with said Project Implementation Unit as provided 
in Section 3.01 (b
) of the Guarantee Agreement;
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-Project shall have been made or approved by the 
Apex Bank, or the participating Bank, on the basis of information, prepared pursuant 
to guidelines agreed with the Bank, comprising: (i) a description of the Beneficiary 
and the appraisal of the Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the proposed terms 
and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the 
Sub-loan; and 
(c)
the expenditure for such Sub-project shall, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, have been made not earlier than one hundred twenty (120) days prior 
to the date on which the information referred to in subparagraph (b) hereof has been 
prepared by or furnished to the Apex Bank or the Participating Bank.
3.
Sub-loans shall be made to Beneficiaries who each shall have established to the 
satisfaction of the Apex Bank or the Participating Bank, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, that:
(a)
it is creditworthy and has the resources required for the efficient 
carrying out of its operations, including the carrying out of the Sub-project, or has 
obtained a guarantee, acceptable to the Apex Bank or the participating Bank, from the 
holding company in control of the Beneficiary’s shares, guaranteeing such 
Beneficiary’s performance and payment obligations under its respective Sub-loan; and
(b)
it is able and has undertaken to contribute at least 10% of the estimated 
cost of the Sub-project.
4.
Sub-loans shall each be made on terms whereby the Apex Bank or the Participating 
Bank shall obtain, by written contract or other appropriate means, rights adequate to 
protect its interest and those of the Bank and the Borrower, including, as 
appropriate, the right to:
(a)
require the Beneficiary: (i) to carry out the Sub-project (A) in 
accordance with such Beneficiary’s Sub-project technical implementation agreement 
referred to in paragraph 2 (a) (iii) of this Attachment, and (B) with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, environmental, economical 
and financial practices; (ii) to maintain adequate records; and (iii) to provide, 
promptly as needed, the fund facilities and other resources required for the purpose;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying 
out of the Sub-project;
Page  13
(c)
inspect by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the 
Bank shall so request, the goods and the sites, works, plans and construction included 
in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain such insurance, 
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practice, including such insurance to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
require the Beneficiary to: (i) have its financial statements for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Apex Bank or the Participating 
Bank; and (ii) furnish to the Apex Bank or the Participating Bank, as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited, and 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Apex Bank or the Participating Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(f)
obtain all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request relating 
to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of the 
Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project; and
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations 
under its contract with the Apex Bank or the Participating Bank.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of amounts 
paid by the Borrower on account of Sub-loans to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $6,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
Page  14
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.02 (a) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  15
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
