Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3024 EGT
Project Agreement
(Pollution Abatement Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL INVESTMENT BANK
Dated February 12, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3024 EGT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 12, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and NATIONAL INVESTMENT BANK (NIB).
WHEREAS (A) by an agreement (the Development Credit Agreement) of even date 
herewith between the Arab Republic of Egypt (the Borrower) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to ten million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR10,900,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that NIB agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
 by an agreement (the Subsidiary Financing Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and NIB, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to NIB on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and
WHEREAS NIB, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part B of the Project; 
Management and Operations of NIB
Section 2.01. (a) NIB declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Part B of the Project and conduct its operations and affairs, in 
accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified management and 
staff, and in accordance with the Statutes and the Statement of Policy.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NIB shall carry out Part B of the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for Part B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. NIB shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part B of the 
Project.
Section 2.04. NIB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NIB shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) NIB shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
NIB shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by NIB of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a)
NIB shall maintain records and accounts adequate to monitor 
and record the progress of Part B of the Project and to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of NIB.
(b)
NIB shall:
  (i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
 (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
Page  3
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
NIB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
 (i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with the 
terms thereof before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the 
Association shall promptly notify NIB of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For NIB:
National Investment Bank
18 Abdel Maguid El Rimali
Bab El Louk
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Fax: 
Page  4
(202) 356-2004
(202) 578-0613
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of NIB may be 
taken or executed by the Chairman of the Board of NIB or such other person or persons 
as said Chairman shall designate in writing, and NIB shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Khalid Ikram
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa 
NATIONAL INVESTMENT BANK
By /s/ Zafer El-Bishry
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project,
1.
NIB shall make available the proceeds of the Subsidiary Finance to the Apex 
Bank, under the Subsidiary Apex Agreement, on  the conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Schedule and on the following terms:
(a) 
the principal amount of the Apex Finance shall be the equivalent in 
dollars (determined as of the respective dates of [withdrawal] from the Credit 
Account) of the values of the currency or currencies so withdrawn on account of 
withdrawals under Sub loans and Sub grants; and
(b)
the Apex Finance shall be (A) charged interest  on the principal amount 
thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at a rate not exceeding 
0.875% per annum, (B) charged a commitment fee on the principal amount thereof not 
withdrawn from time to time at the same rate applicable to the Credit pursuant to 
Section 2.04 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement, and (C) repaid over a term not 
exceeding 35 years, including a grace period not exceeding ten years.
2.
NIB shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Apex Agreement in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to achieve the 
purposes of Part B of the Project, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Apex Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
Page  5
The provisions of this Annex shall apply for the purposes of Paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
1.
The Apex Bank shall undertake that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree:
(a)
The Apex Bank shall carry out its activities under Part B of the Project 
and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards 
and practices with qualified management and staff in adequate numbers and in 
accordance with appropriate investment and lending policies and procedures, and 
provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the purpose.
(b)
the proceeds of the Apex Finance, made available to the Apex Bank out of 
the proceeds of the Credit  allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the table 
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, shall be 
utilized by the Apex Bank exclusively in the granting of Sub-loans to Beneficiaries, 
either:
(i)
through the Participating Banks under Subsidiary Participating 
Agreements to 
be entered into between the Apex Bank and each such 
Participating Bank on 
terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Association and 
which shall include those 
set forth in Attachment A to this Annex, or
(ii)
directly by the Apex Bank on the terms and conditions set forth in 
Attachment 
B to this Annex; and
(c)
the proceeds of the Apex Finance, made available to the Apex Bank out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Category (2) of the table 
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement, shall be 
utilized by the Apex Bank exclusively in the granting of Sub-grants to Beneficiaries 
on the terms and conditions set forth in Attachment B of this Annex.
2.
The Apex Bank shall take all measures to ensure that the aggregate amount of any 
or all Sub-loans and Sub-grants to any one Beneficiary shall not exceed the equivalent 
of $5,000,000, when added to any other amount financed or proposed to be financed by 
the Apex Bank or the Participating Banks out of the proceeds of the Credit and the 
proceeds of the Loan; provided, however, that such aggregate amount may be increased 
to the equivalent of $8,000,000 in cases where the Steering Committee, referred to in 
paragraph 1 (a) (i) of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement, determines, and 
the Association agrees, that such an increase is required to finance urgent industrial 
pollution abatement investments to reduce high levels of toxic substances or heavy 
metals emissions in densely populated areas.
3.
The right of the Apex Bank to the use of the proceeds of the Apex Finance shall 
be:  (a) suspended upon failure of the Apex Bank to perform any of its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Apex Agreement; and (b) terminated if such right shall have been 
suspended pursuant to subparagraph (a) hereof for a continuous period of sixty (60) 
days.
4.
The Apex Bank shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Participating 
Agreements in such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the 
Borrower and the Association and to achieve the purposes of Part B of the Project, 
and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any such Agreement.
5.
The Apex Bank shall coordinate and monitor the overall execution of Part B of 
the Project, the carrying out by the Participating Banks of their obligations pursuant 
to their respective Subsidiary Participating Agreement and the carrying out by 
Beneficiaries of their obligations pursuant to their respective agreements with the 
Apex Bank and the Participating Banks providing for Sub-loans, in accordance with 
policies and procedures satisfactory to the Association.
6.
(i) The Apex Bank shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condition; 
Page  6
(ii) have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; (iii) furnish to the Association and NIB, as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, certified 
copies of said financial statements and accounts for such year as so audited, and the 
report of such audit by said auditors in such scope and detail as the Association or 
NIB shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association and NIB such 
other information concerning said records, accounts and financial statements, as well 
as the audit thereof, as the Association or NIB shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Attachment A to the 
Annex to Schedule 1
The provisions of this Attachment shall apply for the purposes of paragraph 1 
(b) (i) of the Annex to Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
1.
The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the Apex Finance to a 
Participating Bank under its respective Subsidiary Participating Agreement shall be 
denominated in dollars and be the equivalent (determined as of the respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Credit Account) of the aggregate amount paid by the Apex Bank and 
utilized by such Participating Bank in the making of Sub-loans.
2.
The Participating Finance shall be charged on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at a rate equal to the rate 
applicable to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement plus a margin of 
not more than 0.25% per annum, as such margin may be adjusted from time to time as 
agreed between the Association and the Apex Bank.
3.
The Participating Finance shall be repaid in accordance with an amortization 
schedule pursuant to which each portion thereof utilized in the making of a Sub-loan 
shall have a maturity calculated to conform to the amortization schedule applicable to 
such Sub-loan.
4.
The right of a Participating Bank to the use of the proceeds of its respective 
Participating Finance shall be: (a) suspended upon failure of such Participating Bank 
to perform any of its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Participating 
Agreement; and (b) terminated if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to 
subparagraph (a) hereof for a continuous period of sixty (60) days.
5.
Each respective Subsidiary Participating Agreement shall contain provisions 
pursuant to which each respective Participating Bank shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out its activities under Part B of the Project and conduct its 
operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and practices, 
with qualified management and staff in adequate numbers and in accordance with 
appropriate investment and lending policies and procedures, and provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose;
(b)
(i) make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries on the terms and conditions set forth 
in Attachment B to the Annex to Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (ii) exercise its rights 
in relation to each such Sub-loan in such manner as to protect its interests and the 
interests of the Borrower, the Association and the Apex Bank, comply with its 
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Participating Agreement and achieve the 
purpose of Part B of the Project; (iii) not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of 
its agreements providing for Sub-loans, or any provision thereof, without prior 
approval of the Apex Bank; and (iv) appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and 
report on the carrying out by Beneficiaries of Sub-projects, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association and the Apex Bank;
(c)
(i) exchange views with, and furnish all such information to the Apex 
Bank, as may be reasonably requested by the Association or the Apex Bank, with regard 
to the progress of its activities under Part B of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Participating Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of Part B of the Project; and (ii) promptly inform the Apex 
Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of 
Page  7
its activities under its respective Subsidiary Participating Agreement; and
(d)
(i) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condition; (ii) have its 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Apex Bank; 
(iii) furnish to the Apex Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such year, certified copies of said financial 
statements and accounts for such year as so audited, and the report of such audit by 
said auditors in such scope and detail as the Association or the Apex Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Apex Bank such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements, as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association or the Apex Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Attachment B to the 
Annex to Schedule 1
The provisions of this Attachment shall apply for the purposes of paragraph 1 
(b) (ii) of the Annex to Schedule 1 to this Agreement and paragraph 5 (b) (i) of 
Attachment A of the said Annex.
1.
(a)
The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be denominated and be the 
equivalent in dollars or in the currency of the Borrower (determined as of the date or 
respective dates of withdrawal from the Credit account or payment out of the Special 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on 
account of the cost of goods and services financed out of such proceeds for the 
Sub-project.
(b)
Each Sub-loan shall be: (a) charged interest, on the principal amount 
thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate determined by the Apex 
Bank or the Participating Bank making such Sub-loan in accordance with the applicable 
investment and lending policies and practices of the Apex Bank or the Participating 
Bank; and (b) made for a period determined pursuant to said policies and practices and 
not exceeding eight (8) years, inclusive of a grace period of up to two (2) years.
2.
Sub-grants shall be made by the Apex Bank only to Beneficiaries who shall have 
received Sub-loans from the Apex Bank or the Participating Banks, and only for 
Sub-projects financed through the provision of such Sub-loans, provided, however, 
that: (a) the Sub-project shall have been determined by the Apex Bank, pursuant to 
guidelines satisfactory to the Association, to have a simple payback period of at 
least two (2) years; and (b) the principal amount to be made available by the Apex 
Bank on a grant basis for such Sub-project shall not exceed the equivalent of 25% of 
the principal amount or amounts of the Sub-loan or Sub-loans financed or proposed to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the proceeds of the Loan by the Apex 
Bank and the Participating Bank; and (c) the Apex Bank may retain for its own account 
up to the equivalent of 0.5% out of the amount of each Sub-grant to cover the Apex 
Bank’s costs associated with the administration of such Sub-grant.
3.
No expenditures for a Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of a Sub-loan or a Sub-grant unless:
(a)
such Sub-project shall have been determined by the Apex Bank or the 
Participating Bank, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with 
guidelines satisfactory to the Association: (i) to be cost effective and technically 
feasible and in conformity with environmental guidelines, satisfactory to the 
Association, and with all applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower relating to 
health, safety and environmental protection, established pursuant to an environmental 
audit and confirmed as such by the Project Implementation Unit referred to in 
paragraph 1 (a) (ii) of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement; (ii) to have 
been reviewed and recommended for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit by, as 
the case may be, said Project Implementation Unit or by the Steering Committee 
referred to in paragraph 1 (a) (i) of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement; 
and (iii) in respect of which the Beneficiary shall have entered into the Sub-project 
technical implementation agreement with said Project Implementation Unit as provided 
in paragraph 1 (a) (ii) of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement;
Page  8
(b)
the Sub-loan and the Sub-grant for such Sub-Project shall have been made 
or approved by the Apex Bank or the Participating Bank on the basis of information 
comprising: (i) a description of the Beneficiary and the appraisal of the Sub-project, 
prepared pursuant to guidelines agreed with the Association, including a description 
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) 
the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of 
amortization of the Sub-loan; and 
(c)
the expenditure for such Sub-project shall, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, have been made not earlier than one hundred twenty (120) days prior 
to the date on which the information referred to in subparagraph (b) hereof has been 
prepared by or furnished to the Apex Bank or the Participating Bank.
4.
Sub-loans and Sub-grants shall be made to Beneficiaries, who each shall have 
established to the satisfaction of the Apex Bank or the Participating Bank, on the 
basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, that:
(a)
it is creditworthy and has the resources required for the efficient 
carrying out of its operations, including the carrying out of the Sub-project, or has 
obtained a guarantee, acceptable to the Apex Bank or the participating Bank, from the 
holding company in control of the Beneficiary’s shares, guaranteeing such 
Beneficiary’s performance and payment obligations under its respective Sub-loan and 
Sub-grant; and
(b)
it is able and has undertaken to contribute at least 10% of the estimated 
cost of the Sub-project.
5.
Sub-loans and Sub-grants shall each be made on terms whereby the Apex Bank or 
the Participating Bank shall obtain, by written contract or other appropriate means, 
rights adequate to protect its interest and those of the Borrower and the Association, 
including, as appropriate, the right to:
(a)
require the Beneficiary: (i) to carry out the Sub-project (A) in 
accordance with such Beneficiary’s Sub-project technical implementation agreement 
referred to in paragraph 3 (a) (iii) of this Attachment, and (B) with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, environmental, economical 
and financial practices; (ii) to maintain adequate records; and (iii) to provide, 
promptly as needed, the fund facilities and other resources required for the purpose;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and consultants’ services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project;
(c)
inspect by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association, if 
the Association shall so request, the goods and the sites, works, plans and 
construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents;
(d)
require that the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain such insurance, 
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practice, including such insurance to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
require the Beneficiary to: (i) have its financial statements for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Apex Bank or the Participating 
Bank; and (ii) furnish to the Apex Bank or the Participating Bank, as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited, and 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Apex Bank or the Participating Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(f)
obtain all such information as the Association shall reasonably request 
Page  9
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project; 
and
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Sub-loan and the Sub-grant upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform 
its obligations under its contract with the Apex Bank or the Participating Bank, and, 
in respect of the Sub-grant, convert the Sub-grant into a Sub-loan upon such 
suspension or termination.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provision of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Preference for Domestically Manufacture Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods to be procured by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public 
procurement procedures, which the Association agrees can only be purchased from a 
limited number of suppliers, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods to be procured by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public 
procurement procedures, estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods to be procured by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public 
procurement procedures, estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Commercial Practice
Goods to be procured by purchasers not required to follow the Borrower’s public 
procurement procedures, estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent or less per contract, 
may be procured in accordance with the normal commercial practices of such purchasers 
Page  10
at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time 
of delivery and efficiency and reliability of goods and availability of maintenance 
facilities and spare parts therefor.
Part D: 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Except as provided in paragraphs of this Part B, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Consultants’ services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of 
the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
