Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 17253
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SULAWESI - IRLAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln 3340-IND)
December 22, 1997
Urban Development Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorizatio'n.



0 ii
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
(As of January, 1992)
Rp 1 million = US$542; US$1.00 =Rp 1,845
(As of June 1997)
Rp 1 million =US$ 426; US$1.0=X Rp 2,350
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
UNITS OF MEASURES
Metric Units-
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS'
APIP                 - Annual Project Implementation Plan
AMDAL                - GOI Environmental Assessment Process
CPMO                 - Central Project Management Office
DGCK                 - Directorate General, Cipta Karya, Ministry of Public Works
EA                   - Environmental Assessment
GOI                  - Government of Indonesia
IUIDP                - Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program:
KIP                  - Kampung Improvement Program
LIDAP                - Local Institutional Development Action Program
MHA                  - Ministry of Home Affairs
MIIP                 - Market Infrastructure Improvement Program
O&M                  - Operations and Maintenance
PDAM                 - Local Government Water Enterprise
PFAMS                - Project Finance Accounting Management System
PIA                  - Program implementation Agreement
PMDU                 - Provincial Management and Development Unit (for water enterprises)
POMMS                - Performance Oriented Maintenance Management System
RIAP                 - Revenue Improvement Action Program
SAR                  - Staff Appraisal Report
SIJUDP               - Sulawesi Irian Jaya Urban Development Project
SLAP                 - Subsidiary Loan Agreement with Prefinancing
SK                   - Surat Keputusan, Decree of a Senior Official
SUDP2                - Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project
TKI                  - Provincial Governments
TKII                 - Local Governments
TA                   - Technical Assistance
TPA                  - Solid Waste Dump Site
WTP                  - Water Treatment Plant
Vice President                     Severino, Jean-Michel
Country Director                   de Tray, Dennis
Sector Manager                     Varma, Keshav
Task Manager                       Hoornweg, Daniel



iii                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
SULAWESI IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LN.3340-IND)
Implementation completion Report
Table of Contents
PREFACE ...................................................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................................................................................ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ................................................................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ...................................................................................3
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ................................................................................8
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ...................................................................................9
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ...................................................................................9
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..................................................................................                       10
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ..............................................................                                          10
H. FUTURE OPERATION .................................................................................. I I
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ..................................................................................1  1
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
ANNEX A: STATISTICAL TABLES ..................................................................................1  3
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF AsSESSMENT                                       ..14
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LoANs                                      ..15
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE                                    ..17
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL                                                      ..17
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION    .                                                .18
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (A TO C)                                                    .         .     19
TABLE 7:   STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ...........................................................................                22
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS (1&2) ..................................................................................                  23
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING (1&2) ..................................................................................              25
TABLE 9:   ECONOMIC COSTS - BENEFITS ..................................................................................             27
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ..................................................................................              29
TABLE 1 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ........................                                                 3 1
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ..................................................................................  31
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ..................................................................................               33
ANNEX B: STATISTICAL TABLES ..................................................................................                                34
TABLE 1:   EXCHANGE RATES USED DURiNG IMPLEmENTATION ........................................................ 34
APPENDIXES:
A. MISSION'S  AIDE-MEMOIRE ...............................................................................                         35
B. BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR- SULAWESI IUIDP SUB-PROJECT ................................... 39
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR-IRIAN JAYA WATER SUPPLY SUB-PROJECT ................ 50
C. MAP(IBRD22798) .......................................................................                                          53
'This document has a restricted distribution and 'may be used by recipients only in thej
performance of their o)fficial duties. Its con.tents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank aufthfiozation.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SULAWESI - IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3340-IND)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Sulawesi - Irian Jaya Urban
Development Project (Loan 3340-IND) in the Republic of Indonesia, for which US$100.0
million was approved on June 6, 1991 and made effective on November 11, 1991.
The Loan was closed on June 30, 1997 after a six month extension from the original closing date
of December 31, 1996. Final disbursement took place on November 25, 1997, at which time
the total amount of US$95, 834,632.57 in the currency pool was fully disbursed'.
The ICR was prepared by Daniel Hoomweg (Task Manager), Heinrich Unger (ASTEN),
Muhamad Nuch (EACIF), Dong Liu (EASUR), Ian Wetherill and Ephrem Asebe (consultants).
It was reviewed by Messrs. Dennis de Tray, Country Director, and Keshav Varma, Urban Sector
Manager, Indonesia, East Asia and Pacific Region.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's December 1996 ICR mission. It is based on
material in the project file and data gathered during the ICR Mission. A brief follow-up mission
was made to Irian Jaya and Sulawesi in July, 1997 and these findings are also incorporated. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by stating its views as reflected in the
mission's Aide-Memoire (Appendix A), and providing an extensive separate evaluation of the
project, the summary of which is shown in Appendix B.
The balance,in single currency loan of US$ 4,165,367.43 is being considered for emergency poverty relief efforts
to alleviate the impacts of the financial crisis.






ii
INDONESIA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SULAWESI - IRLIN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3340-IND)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.   -In 1987, the Government of Indonesia issued its National Policy Statement for the urban sector and
launched the Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program (IUIDP) concept. The Policy
Statement provided a strategic framework and operational approach to guide local governments. The
IUIDP approach, now adopted by over 75% of Indonesia's local governments, has become a platform for
donor support. To date, over 20 urban projects have been financed under the IUIDP approach, of which 12
were financed by the ADB, and eight by the IBRD. Other donors have financed sub-components of some
of these projects. The Sulawesi Irian Jaya Urban Development Project (SIJUDP), together with the East
Java-Bali Urban Development Project (Ln. 3304-IND), were the first two major projects in the IUIDP series
financed by the World Bank. The project provides a useful opportunity to review two types of
interventions. Efforts in Sulawesi were within an IUIDP framework, whereas Irian Jaya had only water
supply investments.
The Project and its Objectives
ii.    Project Objectives. The objectives of the SIJUDP, as stated in the SAR were: (a) to provide urban
infrastructure in selected cities in Sulawesi and Irian Jaya with emphasis on increased access of households
to water supply and sanitation services; (b) to support improved infrastructure programming and financial
planning in the Sulawesi cities, especially, to support the development of local government capacity to
prepare and execute annual O&M programs; and (c) to encourage local government and water enterprise
(PDAM) revenue generation and improved financial management. The first objective was applicable to
both Sulawesi and Irian Jaya, whereas the second and third objectives were intended to be mainly for
Sulawesi and to a limited extent for Irian Jaya in improved PDAM management and cost recovery (see Map
for cities).
iii.   Project Components. The project objectives were to be achieved through the implementation of
three principal components: (a) infrastructure development (water supply, drainage, solid waste, sanitation,
roads, improvement of kampung, market infrastructure), and O&M for nine cities in Sulawesi ($118.2
million, or 70% of the project cost); (b) water supply system rehabilitation and investments in eight cities in
Irian Jaya ($28.0 million, or 16.6%); and (c) technical assistance for project implementation support,
institutional capacity building and project preparation ($22.7 million, or 13.4%).
iv.    Covenants. No major amendments to the Loan Agreement were made during project
implementation. However, compliance with some loan covenants was only partial. For example,
provisions for O&M in local governments (Tk II) in Sulawesi (section 3.01 of the loan agreement), tariff
adjustments to fully cover water supply O&M, depreciation and operational interests (section 3.04), and the
O&M expenditure level of each participating local government to reach at least the 90% agreed program
(section 3.06), have not been fully complied with (see Table 10).



ift
v.    Evaluation of Objectives. The SIJUDP objectives were important to the country and consistent
with its priorities and the Bank's sector strategy. The project was demanding for the implementing
agencies. The concept and scope of IUIDP were not clear to all government agencies participating in
project implementation. In retrospect, the project's risk assumptions, with regard to institutional
objectives and implementation arrangements, were optimistic: Targets for water connections,
unaccounted-for-water reduction, and increased tariffs, although based on thorough feasibility studies, may
have been higher than actually could be delivered with the available resources and institutional capacities of
the local governments and their PDAMs.
Implementation Experience and Results.
vi.    Achievement of Objectives. In spite of the start-up delay of more than one year, the project
substantially achieved its first objective of providing urban physical infrastructure. In Irian &ya, the
physical investments in water source supply, treatment, storage, transmission and distribution facilities
have been completed. Most of the civil works financed under the project were handed over to the local
water enterprises (PDAMs) by the original closing date and are now in operation. The practical loan
extension of six months allowed a few of the larger works and facilities to be completed and
commissioned. The initial Sulawesi IUIDP-based investments, which covered infrastructure
development, rehabilitation, and O&M in nine cities, were generally completed. However, in all these
towns, because of low construction quality, ineffective O&M, and continuing high unaccounted-for-
water, the project did not fully achieve the expected development impact.
vii.   The second objective-- building local government capacity to prepare and execute annual O&M
programs, as well as to carry out infrastructure programming and financial planning-- was partially
achieved. However, little progress was made in institutionalization of the IUIDP concepts and follow-up
mechanisms. Further, the objective to increase local capacity to deliver urban services more efficiently
and sustainably (to improve municipal management) was only marginally achieved. The third objective -
-increasing revenue and improving financial management--was partly achieved. However, where local
revenue rose significantly, it is not conclusive that the Revenue Improvement Action Plan contributed to the
change.
viii.  Project Cost. Total project cost, excluding interest during construction, was estimated to be
US$168.9 million which with interest of US$19.3 million, required financing for a total of US$188.2
million, of which US$85.8 million was foreign. The Bank was to finance US$100.0 million and a Japanese
Grant of Yen 103.6 million was made available to off-set preparation costs (detailed design and
environmental assessment). The balance was to be financed from local (US$18.1 million), provincial
(US$10.4 million) and central (US$33.4 million) government, water enterprises (US$5.1 million) and
private contributions (US$1.2 million). Estimated actual total cost of the project was US$163.95 million
and estimated actual loan financing loan was US$95.83 million. Exchange rates fluctuated from Rp 1,845
to US$1 in 1990 to Rp 2,350 to US$1 in June 1997. Through project savings and currency changes,
approximately US$24.23 million was made available to improve deficiencies and optimize the water supply
investments.
ix.    Factors Affecting the Project. The project along with the EJBUDP, was part of the Government's
innovative attempt to help change urban management and donor assistance modalities. However, due to the
complexities of the sector and the fact that some government officials resisted decentralization efforts,
urban management did not improve as extensively as hoped. The critical factors affecting the project



iv
included: (a) ineffective and late technical assistance; (b) inexperienced contractors and supervision
consultants who were reluctant to work in isolated communities, particularly in Irian Jaya; (c) local
governments not sufficiently involved in planning, design and implementation; (d) little incentive for local
governments to focus on O&M, compared to capital investments; (e) organizational changes within the
executing agencies created confusion about areas of responsibility; (f) poor inter-agency coordination; (g)
protracted and imperfect procurement procedures; and (h) lack of sufficient capable local staff and little
continuity. The majority of the above factors affect most urban development projects in Indonesia, and
should, therefore, be addressed on a broader scale rather than on a project-by-project basis.
x.     Bank Performance. Bank performance in identification was only marginally satisfactory. The
Bank's urban strategy provided a framework for identifying the project, but as this was one of the first
regional IUIDP projects (with an Irian Jaya Water supply component), procedures, coverage and project
scope were changed several times during preparation: For example, Bank management felt that a
separate water supply project for Irian Jaya would be too small, so it was incorporated into the IUIDP
project. Bank preparation assistance was extensive and on the whole was satisfactory. However,
supervision was marginally satisfactory because of resource constraints and the wide geographic area;
thus, complete coverage during any one mission was not possible. However, the quality of supervision
was high and was conducted with an appropriate mix of staff.
xi.    Borrower Performance. Borrower performance in project preparation, which was detailed and
extensive in most cases, was satisfactory. It required an understanding of a new project concept, IUIDP,
and operationalization of support systems that were demanding. Project preparation was detailed and
extensive in most cases. Implementation was marginally satisfactory. After a delayed start, project
implementation showed significant progress, but the quality of civil works was often poor. In particular,
construction quality and contract supervision in Irian Jaya was problematic, while in Sulawesi, the
problems were with landfill siting and operations, drainage and sanitation. Further, institutionalization
of the implementation support mechanism proved difficult: In most towns, institutional weaknesses
persist and O&M funding and execution are inadequate.
xii.   Project Outcome. The project outcome is marginally satisfactory. Although there are several
mitigating factors (Section H), the development result is modest, but is unlikely to be sustainable, mainly
because of poor quality of civil works, inadequate local participation at the grass roots level, shortfalls in
O&M resource allocation, inadequate tariff increases to date, and above all slow progress in institutional
capacity building attained over the course of project implementation. Moreover, the re-estimated
economic rates of return for most water, road and drainage sub-projects are marginal. Although the project
outcome is marginally satisfactory, it must be viewed as the first effort in a series of sustained interventions
to bring about long-term changes in government.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
xiii.   Findings. The achievement of physical objectives, while important, cannot be sustained unless
these are supported by corresponding progress in institutional capacity and changed attitudes that are
oriented towards service delivery. In some cases, properly maintaining existing facilities would have
been better than constructing new ones. Further, the time frame for institutionalizing the various
decentralization mechanisms was overly optimistic. Finally, effective Bank supervision was constrained
by the very wide geographic areas in which the project was located.



v
xiv.   Future Operations. The Bank approved a follow-on project, the Second Sulawesi Urban
Development Project, SUDP2 (Ln. 4105-IND), which became effective in April 1997. SUDP2 covers
the nine original, plus 32 additional towns in all four Sulawesi provinces. In the original nine
communities, the emphasis is on properly operating and maintaining what was already funded, rather
than new investments. Further, the continuing release of Bank funds has been conditioned on proper
financial provisions for O&M, among other criteria. Efforts to obtain better compliance have been
incorporated into the annual project implementation plan (APIP) for each local government to be
reviewed by the Bank. Implementation support is also focused on "hands-on" assistance with less
emphasis on reporting, and performance indicators have been developed to try to monitor progress in
municipal management. Central and provincial agencies are expected to take an active and sustained
role in project supervision.
xv.   Key Lessons Learned. The most important lessons of the project are:
(a) Quality at entry. In a programmatic approach such as applied in the Sulawesi IUIDP
component, it is essential to pay particular attention to the selection of sub-projects, the criteria applied
for that selection, and the procedures for the economic and financial analyses of the projects. Also more
attention should be given to the impact of urban services and ways to measure it.
(b) Operation of completed projects. Much more emphasis should be placed on: proper O&M
of already funded investments; timely hand-over of sub-projects on completion; community involvement
in service delivery; and improved contracting procedures (on the awarding, executing, and supervising of
contracts, and offering post-construction service).
(c) Change in perspective. The project highlights the need for local governments to move away
from a "project focus" towards more of an overall urban management approach. This requires a change
in the current incentive regime. While additional funds may be necessary to improve the performance of
existing services, in some cases, changes in perspective may be the most important factor in enhancing
sustainability. To this end, inter- and intra-agency coordination must be improved. The PDAMs need to
be more involved in project design and implementation to ensure their full understanding of the systems.
(d) Environmental management. Increased effort in watershed protection are important; in
this area project-supported efforts were showing success in some towns. However, overall, the
preparation of the environmental assessments had little impact on improving environmental management
during implementation. Waste disposal sites need to be better operated (with clear operating plans) and
better located. Modest, yet urgent, efforts are essential for basic sanitation improvements which must
include community education and local participation.
(e) Municipal management. A sharper focus is needed on municipal management. This
should include enhanced professionalization, better land use and service delivery planning, less emphasis
on projects, a more streamlined annual budgeting process (particularly with operating budgets), better
inclusion of, and response to, the general community, and a primary emphasis on 'service delivery'.
(f) PDAM management. The role of local governments and PDAM management must be
clarified. Currently, local governments own the PDAM and exercise control over tariff policies often



vi
without being aware of the implications of limiting tariff increases. In addition local governments
should not expect financial contributions from PDAMs regardless of their financial capability.
(g) Geographic constraints. The relative isolation of the project sites, particularly in Irian Jaya,
illustrates the difficulties associated with governnent decentralization initiatives, building institutional
capacity and construction quality improvements. This cannot be avoided but needs to be accounted for
in future efforts.
(h) The IUIDP approach. The project outcome demonstrates that a debate on fUIDP versus
non-IUIDP type projects is somewhat academic since in both parts of the project, the deficiencies of
municipal management were apparent. What is needed is not a discussion of IUIDP versus non-IUIDP,
but rather a broad strategic consensus on how to best help local governments through a blend of
investments, technical assistance, changes to incentives, and other types of assistance.
(i) Capacity building. Institutional capacity is not so much a function of staff skills and
training, but rather the environment in which they work (e.g., incentive structures) and linkages between
various government agencies, government levels and the community.






REPUBLIC OF lIDONESIA
SULAWESI - IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3340-IND)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    Background. In 1987, the Government of Indonesia issued its National Policy Statement for the
urban sector, and launched the Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program (IUIDP). The Policy
Statement provided a strategic framework and operational approach to guide urban governments. The
IUIDP approach, which includes urban roads, water supply, drainage, solid waste, human waste, kampung
improvement, and market infrastructure, has now been adopted by over 75% of Indonesia's local
governments, and has become a platform for donor support. To date, over 20 urban projects have been
financed under the RJIDP approach, of which 12 were financed by the ADB and eight by the IBRD (table
2). Other donors have fmanced sub-components of some of these projects. The Sulawesi Irian Jaya Urban
Development Project (SIJUDP), together with the East Java-Bali Urban Development Project (Ln. 3304-
IND) were the first two major projects in the series of IUIDPs financed by the World Bank. The project
provides a useful review of two types of interventions, since efforts in Sulawesi were within an IUIDP
framework, whereas Irian Jaya only had water supply investments.
2.    Project Objectives. The objectives of the SIJUDP, as stated in the SAR were: (a) to provide urban
infrastructure in selected cities in Sulawesi and Irian Jaya with emphasis on increased access of households
to water supply and sanitation services; (b) to support improved infrastructure programming and financial
planning in these cities, especially, to support the development of local government capacity to prepare and
execute annual O&M programns; and (c) to encourage local government and water enterprise (PDAM)
revenue generation and improved financial management.
3.    Project Components. The project objectives were to be achieved through the implementation of
the following three principal components: (a) infrastructure development (water supply, drainage, solid
waste management, sanitation, roads, improvement of kampung, market infrastructure, and O&M) for nine
cities in Sulawesi ($118.2 million, or 70% of the project cost); (b) water supply system rehabilitation and
investments in eight cities in Irian Jaya ($28.0 million, or 16.6%); and (c) technical assistance for (i) project
implementation support, (ii) institutional capacity building and (iii) project preparation ($22.7 million, or
13.4%), see map for cities.
4.    No major amendments to the Loan Agreement were made during project implementation2.
However, compliance with some loan covenants was only partial. For example, provisions for operations
and maintenance in level II district local governments (Tk II) in Sulawesi (section 3.01 of the loan
agreement), review of tariff adjustments to fully cover water supply operation and maintenance,
depreciation and operational interests (section 3.04), and review of the operation and maintenance program
of each participating local government to ensure at least the 90% agreed upon expenditure level (section
3.06), have not been fully complied with. See Table 10.
5.    Evaluation of Objectives. The objectives of SIJUDP were important to the country, and remain so.
They were supported by the GOI and World Bank urban development strategies which mirrored each other.
The objectives reflected the urban priorities at the time, and were designed in line with the government's
2On April 17, 1996, the Bank, at the request of the GOI Ministry of Finance, agreed to amend the procurement and
disbursements schedules of the Loan Agreement to allow the use of statements of expenditure against
consultants' services valued below the Bank procurement prior review threshold.



2
Urban Policy Statement. In particular, the Policy Statement was directed towards: (a) improving service
levels in a regionally balanced fashion, particularly for the poor; (b) improving urban productivity and the
effectiveness of investments through better infrastructure planning and programming, especially at the city
level, and through enhanced local government capacity for fiscal management, revenue mobilization,
project implementation, and O&M; (c) improving the urban environment by enhancing local government
capacity to plan, implement and operate infrastructure in an environmentally sound fashion and also by
enhancing community participation.
6.    Being an amalgamation of two separate projects - an urban water supply component for Irian
Jaya, and IUIDP for the four Sulawesi provinces - the SIJUDP was demanding for the implementing
agencies. Initially, the government's original desire was to include all urban centers in Sulawesi, but the
original project scope was reduced to nine cities and towns only. Yet, the project remained quite large
and covered an extended geographic area. Project implementation was to take place in a decentralized
environment. This involved coordination activities in nine local governments, 16 water enterprises
(PDAMs), five provinces and the involvement of more than ten central government agencies.
Furthermore, the success of the project required implementation of action plans (Revenue Improvement
Action Plan -RIAP-, Local Institution Development Action Plan - LIDAP-, Performance Oriented
Maintenance Management System - POMMS-), and mobilization and supervision of several groups of
consultants.
7.    The concept and scope of IUIDP were not always clear to all government agencies participating in
the project. For example, some saw the IUIDP approach as being applicable to small cities while others to
big ones. Some also saw IUIDP as useful in the programming or planning phase, whereas others thought
IUIDP to be useful only in the implementation phase. IUIDP is also now perceived by some as a way to
gain access to additional govermment grants, as opposed to generating development funds from internal
resources. Generally, there appears to be no consensus about the effectiveness of the IUIDP approach
relative to the sub-sector approach for implementing urban development projects. It is clear though that
neither approach is sufficient, and that a blend of assistance programs, including non-project activities, are
needed.
8.    In retrospect, the design of the project was ambitious. Some assumptions, particularly in the
water and drainage subsectors were overly optimistic in terms of expected improvements in institutional
performance. These improvements were expected to materialize under the IUID process, based on the
extensive training and technical assistance to be provided during implementation. For example, targets
for water connections, reduction of unaccounted-for-water, and increase in tariffs, were much higher than
actually could be delivered with the available resources and institutional capacities of the local governments
and their PDAMs. Also, initial assumptions of project risks with regard to institutional objectives and
implementation arrangements were optimistic.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
9.     Overall Assessment In spite of start-up delays of more than one year and construction quality
problems, the project has substantially achieved its first objective of providing urban physical
infrastructure. Execution of infrastructure works proceeded well in most sectors and locations, and
people benefited from improved roads, reduced flooding, and additional water supply and house
connections. It also partially achieved its other institutional objectives. Some progress was made in
institutional capacity building and local government revenues showed some increases.



3
Objective 1: Irian Java
10.   The Irian Jaya sub-project consisted mainly of water system rehabilitation and development in
eight cities (Jaypura, Sorong, Biak, Fak-Fak, Manokwari, Nabire, Serui, and Wamena). The physical
investments in water supply, treatment, storage, transmission and distribution facilities were completed.
Most of the works financed under the project were handed over to the local water enterprises (PDAMs)
by the original closing date and are now in operation. The loan extension allowed for the completion of
a few of the larger works and facilities, namely the Jayapura 500 mm diameter transmission line, the
Sorong water treatment plant, the Biak transmission and distribution system, and for the testing and
commissioning, or handing-over of the completed works to the PDAM. This short delay in project
completion was in part due to technical problems associated with the installation of equipment and
erection of structures, and other deficiencies which required remedial work and start-up assistance prior
to hand-over. The Bank welcomed the six month extension as a prudent measure to reduce the risk of
contracts being "pushed" too quickly, and to ensure adequate commissioning time.
11.   The investments in Irian Jaya project towns increased system production capacity and sales,
improved reliability and water quality, and increased service coverage. For example, the total served
population exceeded its target by 17% over the SAR 1996 estimate of 295,010 people. Annual water
production increased from about 8.1 million m3 to 13.4 million m3, although slightly lower than the
targeted 14.6 million m3 for 1996. Water sale targets were lower than the appraisal value mainly due to
high unaccounted-for-water (UFW), which averaged about 40 % compared to the appraisal figure of 20%
of total production3. As regards storage, the use of additional and first time storage reservoirs in most
project towns assures that peak demand flow will be catered for, and emergency storage will be available
when water production problems occur.
Objective 1: Sulawesi- SIUIDP4.
12.   The Sulawesi project component was based on the IUIDP concept and thus had a wider scope
than the Irian Jaya component. The Sulawesi investments covered infrastructure development,
rehabilitation, and O&M in nine cities (Ujung Pandang, Pare-Pare, Watampone, Palopo, Palu, Kendari,
Manado, Gorontalo, and Bitung) and several subsectors as described below.
13.    Water Supply in Sulawesi. All major works and facilities proposed in the original project scope
have been substantially achieved. Water works and facilities were commissioned in four project cities
(Watampone, Manado, Bitung and Palopo) and were in operation by the PDAMs, by the original closing
date.
3 GOI sector guidance in water supply sector for Replita V assumed that if money is spent on UFW, then a
reduction to 20% was possible over a period of 5 to 6 years. This assumption has been disproved numerous
times since the appraisal of the project. In addition, the nature of UFW in Indonesia has become more clearly
understood - both physical and non-physical losses; and the lack of strong interest in the PDAM/DGCK/MHA
in resolving this issue has become apparent.
The Sulawesi IUIDP component cost including O&M was estimated at US$118.2 million, or 70% of the total.
The relative share of IUIDP components for civil works and equipment were: (i) urban roads, 27%, (ii)
drainage, 12.2%, (iii) water supply, 10.9%, (iv) kampung improvement, 3.4%, (v) solid waste management,
3.3%, (vi) human waste, 1.4%, and (vii) market infrastructure improvement, 0.3 % of the total cost. The
annual and incremental O&M expenditures were estimated at 11.5% of the project cost. On completion, the
total estimated actual cost of the Sulawesi IUIDP component was US$ 104.46 million.



4
14.   Urban Roads. Over the project life, the Bank loan financed a large number of small and some 40
medium-size urban road sub-projects (valued between Rp 400 million and Rp 2 billion), and one large
sub-project (valued Rp 7.4 billion), in the nine project cities. The work generally consisted of upgrading,
including road widening, sidedrains, and sidewalk works. The overall quality of works was marginally
satisfactory and drains and sidewalks, in particular, were of low quality.
15.   Drainage. The physical targets of the drainage investment program were mostly achieved. The
investments financed under the project were mainly construction and/or rehabilitation of secondary and
tertiary urban storm drains. Some primary drains were also constructed. In Bitung a series of gabion
"sabo" dams were built to trap volcanic sand flushed from steep slopes during very heavy rains.
However, there still are some serious deficiencies with regard to the effectiveness and functioning of the
overall drainage systems. As a result of these shortcomings, sand and silt have accumulated, vegetation
has grown, and garbage is clogging existing and new drains in most project towns, placing the future
effectiveness of drains in question. Because of these substantive deficiencies, the longer term benefits
and the sustainability of many of the drainage investments are assessed as unlikely.
16.    Kampung Improvement Program (KIP). Basic neighborhood or slum upgrading (kampung)
improvements were provided under this sub-component. However, the Central Government and also
some of the local governments often treated KIP as a physical infrastructure program only (excluding
social and economic interventions) and implemented those basic improvements (water supply,
footpath/access tracks, sanitation facilities etc.) without effective community consultation or
involvement, despite repeated appeals by Bank supervision missions. As a result, the sanitation facilities
installed are not always used, and local drainage and solid waste management continue to lack sufficient
O&M.
17.   Solid Waste. This component helped improved overall waste collection. However, the
environmental impact from TPAs (solid waste disposal sites) has been exacerbated in some communities.
For example, in Manado, the significant increase in local refuse collection has had an adverse impact on
the TPA. In several of the project cities, TPAs were poorly sited. Most waste was dumped down steep
slopes, making compacting and covering difficult. The five-year experience of the SIJUDP indicates that
progress in this area is likely to be slow, while the positive lessons learned from, e.g. Watampone, could
be readily transferable. Landfill sites at Manado, Bitung, Palu, Kendari and Ujung Pandang were not
completed on time. Action plans, however, have been prepared to remedy the inadequate waste disposal
sites in these five towns. They will be implemented under the Second Sulawesi UDP (Ln. 41 05-IND).
Positive experience in Polopo and Watampone suggests that with an improved understanding by the
Walikota/Bupati and his technical staff, TPA problems can be effectively addressed.
18.   Human Waste Management (Sanitation). Community bathrooms (MCK), family toilets and
septic tanks, sludge pump-out and removal trucks, and sludge treatment facilities financed under this
component were less successful operationally than some of the other components. Some were not
handed over to the concerned local government department for a long time. As in KIP, much work needs
to be done to promote community participation through preparatory consultation. From a public health
and environmental point of view, a concerted program of public education on the risks of inadequate
sanitation and human waste disposal is necessary. Overall, the investments in these facilities had very
limited impact or benefit, and their sustainability appears unlikely, because neither the communities nor
the local government are using the facilities to their capacities.
19.   Market Infrastructure Improvement Program (MIIP). The MIIP was an important component
due to the economic significance of the local markets in the project towns. In some towns substantive
improvements to water supply, sanitation, drainage and solid waste management were achieved under



5
MIIP, thereby improving public health and environmental conditions in and around the markets.
However, most local governments paid little attention to this component. In the follow-on Second
Sulawesi Urban Development Project, MIIP is a key project component, with significantly higher local
government involvement.
Objective 2: Instituional Capacity Building.
20.   Infrastructure programming and financial planning in the project and development of local
government capacity to prepare and execute annual O&M programs objectives were partially achieved.
For example, central government staff noticed increased capacity in the nine previous SIJUDP towns
during preparation of the Second Sulawesi UDP. However, little progress was made in institutionalizing
the IUIDP concept in day to day local government operations: (a) Multi Year Investment Program
(PJM), (b) Revenue Improvement Action Plan (RIAP), (c) Local Institutional Action Plan (LIDAP), and
(d) Project Finance Accounting Management System (PFAMS). The IUIDP is still largely perceived in
project terms, as opposed to ongoing service delivery.
21.   The RIAP, was instituted as a means of improving revenue generation and management. It
appears that it was accepted by some local governments only as a condition for additional grants, and
without significant commitment. For this initiative to succeed, changes will be required: in the current
requirements for recurrent expenditure and revenue budgeting, and in the proper applications of the
incentive schemes. As regards LIDAP, the same type of comments apply. The nine Sulawesi cities have
been able to use PFAMS (and training) successfully. The financial reports improved significantly
throughout the project, but the system still needs to be simplified and improved.
22.   The TA for POMMS implementation was mobilized late, and focused on technical systems.
Formal instruction from Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) was not forthcoming. The exceptions were
Ujung Pandang, which had received previous TA for POMMS implementation, and Bitung where the
accounting changes were made without reference to MHA. Late TA mobilization also reduced the time
that POMMS could benefit from inputs from GOI and missions. O&M is not being properly funded in
any of the local governments. As a consequence POMMS had not been used as designed. It was later
agreed that this must be addressed through the Second Sulawesi UDP, and release of Bank funds under
the Loan would be made conditional on proper financial provisions for O&M. Further, management
actions would be incorporated in the Annual Project Implementation Plan for local governments and
PDAMS (APIP) to be reviewed by the Bank each year.
Objective 3: Revenue Generation.
23.   The objective of increasing revenue generation by local governments and PDAMs, and improving
financial management was partially achieved. However, the full implementation of a cost-based water tariff
would require a considerable increase in 'A' factors5, reduction in operational and administration cost, and
organizational changes. The RIAP deals with the 8 to 10 major local taxes and charges, and identifies the
realistic potential from these revenues, and presents a time bound action plan to progress towards revenue
maximization. The resulting annual revenue targets were to be incorporated in the annual budgets of local
governments. This did not happen due to the local governments' lack of commitment and awareness of
what had been agreed to in the Project Implementation Agreements. However, the RIAP targets were
conservative, and overall revenue growth has exceeded appraisal projections. In financial management
terms recurrent expenditures have exceeded appraisal projections, but where significant increases in local
revenue have occurred, it is not certain whether RIAP had a role in it.
5 'A" factor - This is the basic domestic water tariff; weighting is currently applied to this to reflect both differing
levels of consumption, and by type of customer.



6
24.   Economic Rate of Return. In retrospect, EIRR estimates at appraisal were relatively high.
Recalculated EIRRs for the PDAMs, even under optimistic assumptions were estimated to be marginal.
The EIRR re-evaluation of the 67 sub-projects in urban roads and drainage implemented between
1992/93 and 1995/96 and with a construction value above Rp 400 million, however, did not establish a
clear linkage between the completed sub-projects and estimated benefits (Annex A: Table 9). However,
there is clear evidence on the ground that many of the investments are yielding benefits to the local
population.
25.   Private Sector Participation. Only a few promising activities, such as parking tariff collection,
private sponsorship (with maintenance responsibilities) of waste containers in Manado, and market
development in Palopo and Watampone have been undertaken. Other possible examples for the project
towns would be in areas such as PDAM operation by a local contractor in Wamena, TPA bulldozer
operations in Palu, and heavy equipment leasing in all communities. While in principle the role of the
private sector is accepted, due to the size and relative isolation of the communities, what is expected are
incremental advances, usually at the Bupati's/Walikota's encouragement.
26.   Environmental Impact Important successes were the watershed management efforts to protect
the quality of present and future water supplies in Irian Jaya. Following a Governor's decree,
committees were set up by all local governments, and some are active with implementation efforts, such
as delineation of the catchment area, fencing, signing, policing, monitoring, and coordinating
development activities. The Governor's effort to institutionalize a participatory approach was a positive
step. The growing recognition for local government budgetary allocations and the need for major
changes in perspective emphasized in the 1996 watershed protection workshop were also encouraging.
However, overall, the preparation of the environmental assessments (EA) had little impact on improving
environmental management during implementation, because the EA studies were done in Jakarta, and the
completed reports were not adequately disseminated to the field or followed-up during implementation.
27.   Project Implementation. Disbursement closely followed SAR estimates, except for the initial
lag. All civil works contracts were LCBs and few of them required prior Bank review. Contracts were
awarded according to Keppres (GOI procurement guidelines) and the awards were made to the lowest
evaluated bidders. However, the tender procedures need improvement, as in some cases the difference
between the lowest and highest bid prices was less than one percent. Because of the delay in mobilizing
the TA consultants, there were initial problems in CPMO meeting the reporting requirements in terms of
promptness and necessary information. But later, the position improved significantly with good
cooperation between CPMO and the various Bank supervision missions. Regular financial performance
reporting on PDAMs was available from the Provincial Management and Development Unit for water
enterprises (PMDU) in Irian Jaya after year three, and on a more limited basis for some PDAMs in
Sulawesi. The lack of financial and economic skills within PMDU to carry out any form of analysis of
PDAM management and of their operations was a constraint. In the case of specific products of various
TA in the project, submission of the reports to the Bank for review and comment was not always
considered satisfactory. A more structured approach to this kind of reporting would be required in future
projects.
28.   Project Cost. Total project cost, excluding interest during construction, was estimated to be
US$168.9 million which with interest of US$19.3 million, required financing for a total of US$188.2
million, of which US$85.8 million was foreign. The Bank was to finance US$100.0 million and a Japanese
Grant of Yen 103.6 million was made available to off-set preparation costs (detailed design and
environmental assessment). The balance was to be financed from local (US$18.1 million), provincial
(US$10.4 million) and central (US$33.4 million) government, water enterprises (US$5.1 million) and



7
private contributions (US$1.2 million). Estimated actual total cost of the project was US$163.95 million
and estimated actual loan financing loan was US$95.83 million. Exchange rates fluctuated from Rp 1,845
to US$1 in 1990 to Rp 2,350 to US$1 in June 1997. Through project savings and currency changes,
approximately US$24.23 million was made available to improve deficiencies and optimize water supply
investments. Some US$1.52 million was utilized form the project preparation funds for detailed design and
environmental assessment.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
29.    Factors not generally subject to government control. Although there was no consensus with
GOI, consultants and TA were generally viewed to be ineffective in setting up and implementing
POMMS, RIAP and LIDAP. Although consultant performance is generally subject to government
control (the contract managers) the consultants in this area were often non-professional and of limited
benefit.
30.   Factors generally subject to Government control. One of the main factors in this category is the
poor quality of construction works, e.g., water pipe bedding and welding in Jayapura maintenance,
access at the Manado WTP, concrete quality and retaining walls throughout, market drainage and road
works in Kendari, poorly assembled pipeworks and equipment in many WTPs. Several factors
contributed to this: (a) late mobilization of the PMU Advisory consultants in Irian Jaya and of the DED
& SPN consultants in Sulawesi leaving supervision to poorly equipped local government staff only, (b)
"advisory" role only for the PMU consultants in Irian Jaya with niether authority nor responsibility for
construction quality, (c) weak, small or inexperienced contractors working on many small, separate
contracts, (d) an apparent lack of appreciation of the benefits and importance of good quality
construction at all levels of government, the contractors and most consultants, (e) inadequate or
inexperienced supervision staff from either local governments or the consultants, (f) protracted and
imperfect procurement procedures, (g) lack of sufficient O&M funding and execution, and (h) persistent
institutional weaknesses. In particular, most local governments felt that they could not afford the O&M
levels set out in the SAR, (agreed to by the local governments in the Project Implementation Agreements
and covenanted in the Loan Agreement and insisted upon by Bank supervision missions), while
provincial governments did not agree with local government statements on affordability.
31.   "Handing over" of investments for operation and maintenance involves a complicated
bureaucratic process, often times going from central government to provincial government, local
government, and occasionally down to the community. This resulted in little ownership and or
maintenance. Some KIP investments had still not been handed over to the respective communities more
than three years after completion. Similarly, IPLT (sludge treatment) facilities constructed by Cipta
Karya Pusat were left idle by local governments for years. There were at least six of these in IBRD
project towns, some funded in parallel with the project. These seemingly needless delays no doubt
seriously reduce the effectiveness of the investments and highlight an urgent need for greater
accountability and cooperation.
32.   A third factor is that local governments did not understand Ministry of Finance requirements and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with Pre-financing (SLAP). Coordination with Pusat could have been
much better. TKI coordination was considered much more evolved in South Sulawesi Province which
had set up a PPMO and PPMU modeled on the East Java provincial implementation units, established
under Ln. 3304-IND (East Java-Bali UDP) on their own initiative.



8
33.   A fourth factor is the change in executing agencies / recipients of infrastructure. At the time of
appraisal, the project included 9 Tk II governments in Sulawesi; in four cases the project towns were
Kota Administrative (embryo Kotamadya), i.e., Palu (Kabupaten Donggala), Kendari (Kabupaten
Kendari), Watampone (Bone), and Palopo (Kabupaten Luwu). In Irian Jaya, Jayapura, the provincial
capital, was located in Kabupaten Jayapura. During the project Palu, Kendari and Jayapura were all
converted into Kotamadya (city) which are separate TK II governments. This raised a number of
organizational and institutional questions regarding the project's ownership and establishment of new
water enterprises, tariff approval mechanisms, and various responsibilities and commitments related to
the Program Implementation Agreements (PIA) and PIA targets for revenue improvements.
34.   At appraisal, the Bank had requested the conversion of all water companies owned/managed by
the Central Government (BPAM), to PDAM, and had specifically covenanted the time table for the
conversions in Irian Jaya. The basis for conversion was that the BPAM had reached a reasonable level of
management and operating efficiency and should have been recovering operating costs and depreciation
through effective tariff policies. Although the conversions were made, the basic requirements for
conversion had not been met. The management capability was not in place, and financial capability had
not been established. In addition to having negative impacts on the quality of infrastructure, there were
also major impacts on the effectiveness of the various TA and institutional development elements of the
project. In particular, control of revisions of tariffs was passed from central government to local
governments who also were not prepared to handle the additional powers and responsibilities.
35.   This project, like many urban development interventions, was affected by systemic governance
issues. The Government agencies responsible for the project implementation were not able to effect
significant changes in these areas. These issues, such as, the representational nature of the local
legislative assembly (DPRD), Bupati/Walikota accountability, staff compensation, and performance
measures of professional staff and political appointees, need to be further refined to ensure long-term
sustainability in this sector.
36.   A number of factors generally subject to the control of the implementing agency were procurement
delays, and delays in local contracting because of lack of experience with Bank procedures. Further, large
infrastructure works faced problems when broken into smaller contracts. Local contractors were not
financially strong and contract supervision was insufficient. Institutional development and management of
technical assistance did not receive adequate attention by all levels of government. Land acquisition
problems by Tk II, and inadequate O&M and financial management by PDAMs continued to have negative
effects on the operation of project financed facilities.
D. Project Sustainability
37.   The benefits generated in relation to the project's major objectives and the achievements
expected in the operational plan (Section H) are unlikely to be sustainable. Sustainability is considered
unlikely only when the project is viewed in isolation, i.e., no follow-on activities, however, since the
follow-on efforts are outside this project's scope, an evaluation of the project, on its own must be made.
To reverse the underlying factors affecting project sustainability, (a) a well directed follow-on project,
(b) an enhanced emphasis on overall urban management, and (c) a feedback mechanism on the quality
of urban services delivery, will have to be instituted. In this regard, in Sulawesi, the follow-on project
(Second Sulawesi UDP- Ln 4105-IND) is likely to enhance the first project's sustainability. In both Irian
Jaya and Sulawesi a further shift, away from a "project focus" and towards "service provision and urban
management", is required. This means moving away from the current policy environment which



9
encourages development expenditure instead of recurrent expenditure. Finally, institutional mechanisms
for community 'feedback' on the quality of service delivery could help local governments to adjust
services accordingly. The recent proposal by the Director General of Cipta Karya (supported by the
Governor of Irian Jaya) to establish PDAM "consumer advisory boards" is a step in the right direction.
The establishment and active involvement of these advisory boards in Irian Jaya should enhance the
sustainability of the project. Similarly, the watershed protection efforts through multi-stakeholder efforts
are very encouraging.
E. Bank Performance
38.   Identification/Preparation. For SIJIUDP, the gestation period from identification to appraisal was
longer than average for the first generation IUIDPs. This reflected the difficulties that this project had in
coordinating several sectors and levels of government, and the fact that the project covered two less
developed areas of Indonesia. Initially, the IUIDP concept was not clear to the implementing agencies.
The Bank provided extensive guidance on this and on the establishment of an institutional framework to
solve preparation problems the project experienced. Bank assistance concentrated only on those cities
where preparation had reached an advanced stage. On the other hand, Bank management felt that a
separate water supply project for Irian Jaya would be too small, so it was incorporated into the IUIDP
project. However, at Bank's insistence, the overall scope of the project was reduced to use available
resources more effectively. Other key aspects of Bank assistance focused on strengthening O&M
activities for infrastructure and services covered by SIJUDP expenditure programs in each local
government. Implementation plans were detailed for each component. Overall, project preparation
assistance was satisfactory while identification was marginally satisfactory.
39.   Appraisal. Project appraisal was marginally satisfactory. At the time of pre-appraisal, peer
reviewers expressed their concern about the extensive geographic area included in the project and the
large number of sub-projects. This was a valid concern given the geography of Sulawesi where cities
like Manado and Ujung Pandang are more than 1,000 kilometers apart, which made frequent supervision
of all project towns difficult. But despite these recommendations, the project was appraised as prepared,
and included nine local governments in Sulawesi, and the eight PDAMs in remote Irian Jaya Province.
Otherwise, assessments of the project's primary risk, i.e., difficulties in achieving the institutional
development objective, were on target. As one of the first two major Bank financed IUIDPs, the project
contained pilot elements; some of the risks had not been fully understood, or quantified at the time of the
appraisal, particularly, the physical investments/TA mix, and inter-government relationships, a key factor in
judging the success or failure of the project.
40.   Supervision. Mainly because of limited resources and the broad geographic and technical scope,
Bank staff supervision was marginally satisfactory. However, field visits were made generally with the
appropriate mix of staff. Supervision reports were sector and site specific and gave detailed observations
and recommendations on specific actions to be taken by the appropriate agencies. Because of budget
constraints, complete coverage of project sites of the wide geographic area during any one mission was
not possible; therefore limited supervisions were carried out. In accordance with the Loan Agreement,
"a comprehensive review assessing the progress of the project" was to be held by June 1994 as part of
the mid-term review. However, due to the slow start-up, the project mid-term review was not done as
scheduled. Instead, the June/July 1994 mission undertook an in-depth review of the implementation
progress and loan fund use, and the subsequent mission of November/December 1994 concluded that
review. The review stated that project implementation was suffering from lack of adequate supervision
by central government agencies probably due to the remote and dispersed location of project towns. The



10
final supervision mission of the project found the quality of civil works poor, and the overall
sustainability of the project questionable. There was a slight disconnect in general supervision ratings
(mostly satisfactory) and the final ICR mission (less positive). This was due to a more limited focus
during regular supervision missions, e.g., facilities construction, and a broad overview, (looking at the
sum of the whole versus the sum of the parts) during the ICR mission.
F. Borrower Performance
41.   Preparation. Borrower performance in project preparation was satisfactory. Project preparation
required the mastery of a new project concept, IUIDP, and operationalization of support systems which
were demanding for the agencies involved. Project preparation efforts were detailed and extensive.
42.   Implementation. Implementation was marginally satisfactory. After a delayed start, project
implementation showed significant progress but the quality of civil works and services made little
improvement. In particular, in Irian Jaya construction quality and contract supervision continued to be
problematic, while in Sulawesi, the problems were with landfill siting and operations, drainage and
sanitation. Institutionalization of the implementation support mechanisms proved to be difficult. In
most towns, institutional weaknesses persisted and O&M funding and execution were inadequate. There
was a clear need to better manage all technical assistance and to insure better supervision of consultants.
G. Assessment of Outcome
43.   Overall, the project outcome is assessed as marginally satisfactory. Although there are several
mitigating factors (Section H), the development result is modest and sustainability appears unlikely mainly
because of poor quality of civil works, inadequate local participation at a grass roots level, shortfalls in
O&M, inadequate tariff increases to date, and above all the slow progress in institutional capacity
building attained during the course of project implementation. Moreover, the re-estimated economic rate
of returns for most water, road and drainage sub-projects are marginal.
H. Future Operation
44.   As noted earlier, the financial commitment for O&M has not been strong by the Tk II. The Bank
has approved a follow-on project, the Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project, SUDP2 (Ln 4105-
IND), which became effective in April 1997 and is reviewing the prospects of a follow-on project in
Irian Jaya. SUDP2 covers the nine original, plus 32 additional towns in all Sulawesi provinces. The
design of the SUDP2 has made use of the key lessons learned from the implementation experience of
SIJUDP. For the nine original SIJUDP communities, emphasis will be on properly operating what was
already funded, rather than exclusively focusing on new investments. Further, release of Bank funds has
been made conditional on proper financial provisions for O&M. Efforts to obtain better compliance have
been incorporated into annual APIP for each local government to be reviewed by the Bank. More
comprehensive municipal management performance indicators and requirements for much more active
project supervision by central and provincial agencies have also been included. These actions under
SUDP2 could significantly enhance the sustainability of the investments of SIJUDP sub-projects.
Implementation and supervision of SUDP2 has a key focus on "municipal management" trying to ensure
that project investments are well incorporated into an increasingly efficient local government.



11
45.   The appropriate time for OED to evaluate the impact of SIJUDP will be after the closing of the
Third Jabotabek Urban Development Project (loan 3246-IND), the last of the first generation IUIDP
loans appraised until 1993 (Annex A: Table 2) in Indonesia. The performance indicators to be used for
evaluating should be similar to those used in SUDP2, the follow-on project.
I. Key Lessons Learned
46.          Key Lessons Learned. The most important lessons of the project are:
(a) Quality at entry. In a programmatic approach such as applied in the Sulawesi IUIDP
component, it is essential to pay particular attention to the selection of sub-projects, the criteria applied
for that selection, and the procedures for the economic and financial analyses of the projects. Also more
attention should be given to the impact of urban services and ways to measure it.
(b) Operation of completed projects. Much more emphasis should be placed on: proper O&M
of already funded investments; timely hand-over of sub-projects on completion; community involvement
in service delivery; and improved contracting procedures (on the awarding, executing, and supervising of
contracts, and offering post-construction service).
(c) Change in perspective. The project highlights the need for local governments to move away
from a "project focus" towards more of an overall urban management approach. This requires a change
in the current incentive regime. While additional funds may be necessary to improve the performance of
existing services, in some cases, changes in perspective may be the most important factor in enhancing
sustainability. To this end, inter- and intra-agency coordination must be improved. The PDAMs need to
be more involved in project design and implementation to ensure their full understanding of the systems.
(d) Environmental management. Increased effort in watershed protection are important; in
this area project-supported efforts were showing success in some towns. However, overall, the
preparation of the environmental assessments had little impact on improving environmental management
during implementation. Waste disposal sites need to be better operated (with clear operating plans) and
better located. Modest, yet urgent, efforts are essential for basic sanitation improvements which must
include community education and local participation.
(e) Municipal management. A sharper focus is needed on municipal management. This
should include enhanced professionalization, better land use and service delivery planning, less emphasis
on projects, a more streamlined annual budgeting process (particularly with operating budgets), better
inclusion of, and response to, the general community, and a primary emphasis on 'service delivery'.
(f) PDAM management. The role of local governments and PDAM management must be
clarified. Currently, local governments own the PDAM and exercise control over tariff policies often
without being aware of the implications of limiting tariff increases. In addition local governments
should not expect financial contributions from PDAMs regardless of their financial capability.
(g) Geographic constraints. The relative isolation of the project sites, particularly in Irian Jaya,
illustrates the difficulties associated with government decentralization initiatives, building institutional
capacity and construction quality improvements. This cannot be avoided but needs to be accounted for
in future efforts.



12
(h) The IUIDP approach. The project outcome demonstrates that a debate on IUIDP versus
non-IUIDP type projects is somewhat academic since in both parts of the project, the deficiencies of
municipal management were apparent. What is needed is not a discussion of IIUIDP versus non-IUIDP,
but rather a broad strategic consensus on how to best help local governments through a blend of
investments, technical assistance, changes to incentives, and other types of assistance.
(i) Capacity building. Institutional capacity is not so much a function of staff skills and
training, but rather the environment in which they work (e.g., incentive structures) and linkages between
various government agencies, government levels and the community.



13
ICR-Annex A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SULAWESI - IRIAN JAVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
ANNEX A. STATISTICAL TABLES
(Loan 3340-IND)
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement ofobjectives          ubstantial          artial        Negljgigble      No
Macroeconomic policies            -                       5                5             X
Sector policies                         5                 X                5             0
Financial objectives                    5                 X                a             o
Institutional development               0                 X                0             C
Physical objectives                     X                 5                5             5
Poverty reduction                       5                 5                X             5
Gender concerns                         5                 5                5             X
Other social objectives                 5                 O                X             O
Environmental objectives                5                 X                5             5
Public sector management                0                 X                c             o
Private sector development              5                 O                X             5
Economic benefits                       O                 X                5             5
B. Project Sustainahility              Lik             UnlikIy         Uncertain
5                X                O
C. Bank Performance                   Higjljy                          Marginally
Saisfactorv      Satisfatg        satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                          o                 O                X             o
Preparation assistance                  5                 X                C             5
Appraisal                               g                 D                X             5
Supervision                             O                 O                X             O
D. Borrower Performanc                Highly                            Marginally
Stisfactory      Safisfacnry       s fcry         Deficient
Preparation                             O                 X          
Implementation                          C 5                                X
Covenant compliance                     0                 a                X             0
Operation                               0                                  X             5
E. Assessment of Outcome            Highly                            Marginally
SadSttry         Satisfactory                      Dericient
o                5                X              o



14
ICR-Annex A
Table 2: Related Urban and Water Supply Bank Loans
Loan/credit title                  Purpose                  Year of          Status
approval
Preceding onerationsA*
Loan 1972-IND Fourth Urban To Implement a nationwide KIP; a site and  1981           Closed
Development IBRD Loan $43  service program; and strengthening of the
million; Cost $85.93 million.  management capabilities of the Bank
Tabungan Negara(BTN)and the
PERUMNAS.
Loan 2408-IND Fifth Urban   To Improve basic urban services and     1984           Closed
Development               strengthen municipal administration in the
project cities (Surabaya, Semarang,
Surakarata, and Ujung Pandang) and augment
the capacity for local resource mobilization
oan 2725-Housing Sector    To expand access to housing finance for low  1986       Closed
Project                   and middle income households; to reduce
overall subsidies to the lowest income groups;
to reduce the reliance of the housing finance
system on government funds and introduce
new instruments for resource mobilization; to
stimulate the production of more low cost
housing by both public and private
developers; to generate employment at low
foreign exchange and to Strengthen BNT and
l _______________  PERUMNAS.
Loan 2816-IND Urban Sector To carry out GOI's FY87/88 and FY88/89   1987           Closed
Project                   urban infrastructure expenditure program; to
strengthen sector institutions and procedures;
to improve local resource mobilization; and to
increase the responsibilities of local
governments for urban infrastructure
l______________________ planning, financing and implementation.
Loan 2817-IND Regional    To implement a program for relieving traffic    1987     Closed
Cities Urban Transport    congestion and promote transport efficiency;
to strengthen city government capabilities in
the planning, implementation, and
maintenance of traffic and transport facilities;
and to establish a process of coordinating the
investment activities of central, provincial and
city government agencies in urban transport
L _____________________  prograrns.



15
Loan 2932-IND Jabotabek    To provide technical assistance for      1988           Closed
Urban Development         institutional development and training in
urban management and include physical
works( mainly civil works and some
equipment) for an extensive program of road
improvement and construction
Loan 3219-IND Second      To develop and implement a coordinated    1990           Closed
Jabotabek Urban Development program of physical investments, technical
Project                   assistance and policies of urban water supply,
wastewater disposal, drainage and water
_________________________  resources/equity  management.                                         l
Loan 3246-lND Third       To introduce a more effective and sustainable    1991    Active
Jabotabek Urban Development approach to provision of basic services in
Jabotabek through extensive community
participation in recognized low-income urban
communities; to strengthen environmental
protection and pollution control in the Jakarta
region; and to improve maintenance of
existing infrastructure networks and provide a
firmer basis to plan future development
priorities.
Loan 3304-IND East Java-Bali To improve the quality of urban infrastructure   1991  closed
Urban Development Project  and services in the two provinces, through
support for urban infrastructure investments;
institutional development                                             l
Fllowing projectsI
Loan 3726-IND Surabaya    To improve urban service levels and       1994           Active
Urban Development         affordability, particularly for the poor;
productivity and the effectiveness of
investments through better infrastructure
planning and management, revenue
mobilization, project implementation and
O&M; enviromnental quality by enhancing
local government capacity to plan, implement
and operate infrastructure in an
environmentally sound fashion and also by
enhancing community participation                                     l
Loan 3749-IND Semarang-   To improve the provision of urban         1994           Active
Surakarta Urban Development infrastructure services and the efficiency of
the urban investments; to promote stronger,
more autonomous, and financially more
independent municipal government; and to
contribute towards poverty alleviation, mainly
through better access to essential services and
an improved urban environment (Part of
IUIDP framework)                              . X



16
oan 3854-IND Kalimantan   To improve the provision of urban        1995           Active
Urban Development Project  infrastructure services and the efficiency of
the urban investments; promote stronger,
more autonomous, and financially more
independent municipal governments; to
contribute towards poverty reduction, mainly
through better access to essential services;
and improve the environment.
n 4105-lND, Second     to improve the provision of urban services  1997         Active
Sulawesi                 through appropriate economic investments in
Urban Development Project  physical infastructure; to strengthen
operations and maintenance activities for
urban services, and support improved
planning, programming, budgeting, financial
management and local revenue generation by
local governments; and to improve urban
environment management and reduce local
environmental impacts.
oan 4017 IND Second East  To improve urban infrastructure service  1996           Active
ava Urban Development    delivery, and to develop the necessary
Project                  financial and institutional capacity in local
govermments to sustain urban services.
Loan 4155-IND Bali Urban   Improve urban infrastructure services in Bali    1997   Active
Improvement Project       in a sustainable manner to meet: (i) basic
needs in all important urban centers and (ii)
the needs for growing urbanization in south
Bali as a result of tourism and other economic
activities
preceeding projects are only those within the ten year limit.



17
ICR-Annex A
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle           Date planned             Date actual/atest estimate
Identification (IEPS)                 12/83 - 04/87         12//83
04/18/88              04/18/88
05/88 - 5/89          2/88 - 3/90
ppraisal                            06/89                  10/90
Negotiations                    .   12/89                  04/10-12/91
oard presentation                   03/90                  06/06/91
Signing                               08/91                 08/08/91
Effectiveness                         11/91                 11/04/91
idterm Review                       06/94                 10/94
oject completion                    06/30/96              12/31/96
oan closing (Loan 3304-IND))         12/31/96              06/30/97
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Bank FY                         FY92      FY93    FY94       FY95       FY96       FY97  FY98
Appraisal estimate               19.1      46.7     67.9       84.3      96.3       100    100
Actual                            4.5     17.63    40.52      63.26     81.50       95.8   95.8
Actual as % of estimate          23.6      37.7     60.0       75.0      84.6       95.8   95.8
Date of final disbursement                                                    November 25, 1997



18
ICR-Annex A
Table 5: Key Implementation Indicators and Reporting Systems
Indicators                      Planned
Reporting frequency and                Actual
responsibility                  Performance
1. Conformity of annual budget       Annual                    Satisfactory
allocation with approved expenditure  (1) PFO
programs and financing plans          (2) CPFO
2. Conformity of actual expenditures  Annual                   Satisfactory
with budget allocations              (1) PFO
_(2) CPFO
3. Physical progress per local and    Quarterly                Satisfactory
enterprise government                 (1) PMO/PUM
(2) CPMU
4. RKL/RPL Implementation             Annual                   Unsatisfactory
(1) PMO /PMU
(2) CPMO
5. Water enterprise financial targets  Annual                  Unsatisfactory
(1) PMO /PMU
l _________________________           (2)  CPM O
6. Local government revenue           Annual                   Unsatisfactory regarding targets, but
improvement targets and achievements   (1) PLO /PMU            satisfactory regarding actual results
l __________________________          (2)  CPM O
7. Loan disbursement targets          Quarterly                Satisfactory
CPFO
8. Consulting services implementation  Quarterly               Partially satisfactory
schedules, particularly assignment starts   CPFO
9. Procurement schedule               Quarterly                Unsatisfactory
(1) PMO/PUM
(2) CPMU
/a PMO refers to the Project monitoring Office at the local government level in Sulawesi. PMU refers to the
Project Management Unit in Irian Jaya.



19
Table 6: Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation
a) Irian Jaya Water Enterprises- PDAM
Jayapura   Biak     Fak-Fak     Manokwari   Nabire        Serui       Strong     Wamnena
Population ('000)*              Actual*   314        78        34          40            42          n/a         99         41
SAR(96/  162         52        19          44            25          15          103       9
97)
Population Served (%)*          Actual*   57         49        42          26            28          n/a         60         38
SAR       85         76        71          75            76          75         69         75
Production Capacity (I/s)*      Installed   416      264       35          65            30          n/a         124        20
Produced  246        90.2      28          35            18.5        n/a         114        18
Connections                     Actual    14777      1845      2131         1724         1320        1546        6958       824
SAR       16612      3288      1402        3263          2155        1126        9148
Unaccounted for Water ( %)'*    Actual    42         45        33           66           40          40          39         0.00
SAR       20         20        20          20            20          20          20        20
Average Tariff- Rp/M3           Actual    514        914       452         487           892         358         976        0.00
SAR       860        1060      467         450           717         583         601       577
Average Cost Rp/M3              Actual    438        913       508         425           667         287         1121       0.00
SAR       372        410       391         369           463         434         408       438
Operating Revenue -Rp Million   Actual    2446.312  494.886   328.347       371.278      216.407      194.358    1753.670  0.00
SAR       4510.850   1060.51   192.170     192.170       415.540     432.900    206.160    1530.460
Operating & Maint. - Rp Million    Actual    1201.623  309.971   227.706    113.753      119.642     73.502      1436.536  0.00
SAR       1720.640  396.080   157.370      314.690       256.830     139.580    993.150    88.33
Administration/Gen. - Rp Million    Actual    479.446    147.63    98.142   115.817      36.320      46.150      227.336    0.00
SAR       372.600   22.410    16.470       17.350        17.840     - 15.330     36.360     13.040
Income before Deprecations Rp   Actual    672.223    37.655    2.502        118.041      60.445      74.706      89.798     0.00
Million
SAR       2417.610  642.030   18.320       83.500        158.230     51.250      510.450   36.07
Net Income - Rp Million         Actual    (685.889  (284.04   (6.044.**)   (117.249.**)  (90.491)    (44.925)   (197.571   (0.00)
0)
SAR       121.560   215.59   (63.000)'   (179.110)    (81.560)    (37.060)    504.460)  (19.46)
Notes: Actual - * Population and population served are Data from July 1997 ICR mission the rest of the data is as of December 1995
SAR - Data from Financial Year 1995/96 column
(.**) Without depreciation



20
Table 6: Key peribrmnance Indicator for project Operation
Sulawesi Water Enterprises
PDAM MANADO                                           PDAM              BIUNG
SAR      SAR    PROJECTED        P     Impat          SAR      SAR   PROJECTE        P
1991     1996      1996    SAR 41 to 96  Act v SAR9146   1991  1        19996   SAR 4 to #  ACt v SMA ti
Service Area Population             262       280       365           16         102       69       76       88           7           19
Population Served        %       56.00%    68.70%    60.20%                            59.70%   74.40%   43.39%
Population Served        No         147       192       220          46           73       41       56       36          15           (3)
Connections             000's    21.020    26.800    27.549        5.780       6.529    6.800    8.850    8.363        2.050       1.563
Water Production      M3 Mill    14.748    16.188     13.903       1.440      (0.845)   2.618    3.767    6.634        1.169       3.016
Unaccounted for Water M3 Mill     6.123     4.979     5.631       (1.144)      (0.492)   0.751    1.095    2.257       0.343       1.506
Unaccounted for Water    %          42%      31%        41%                               29%      29%      40%          0%
Water Saies           M3 MiII     8.625    11.209      8.272       2.584      (0.352)   1.667    2.693    3.377        0.826       1.610
Average Tailif         RpslM3       355      550       1,209         195         664      350      620    1,160         270          S10
Average Ops Expenditur Rps/M3       263       304        782         41          519      211      224      669          13          376
Total Operating Revenu  Rps Mill   3,394    7,044    10,949     3,650.00     7,555.00     754    1,934    3,963        1,180     3,229.00
Total Operating Expens  Rps Miii   2,256    3,413     6,473     1,157.00     4,217.00     395      602    1,988         207      1,593.00
Depreciation          Rps Mill      525      2175        99S       1,650         470      296      543      72S       247.00         432
Net Incomel(Loss)     Rps Mill  163.00    489.00   2,443.00       326.00       Z280   (56.00)  476.00   898.00        832.00         954
Employeesi 1,000 Conns   No                             12.1                                                 17
Sulirja Investment- Total RpslIM3
Debt Coverage Ratio
NOTE 1996 DATA FROM FINPRO PROJECTIONS FOR SECOND SULAWESi UDP  NOTE 1996 DATA FROM FINPRO PROJECTIONS FOR SECOND SULAvWB UDP
I
PDAM GORONTALO                                        PDAM              DONGGALA
SAR(1)    SAR    ESTIMATED        Projet Impact        SAR      SAR   ESTIMATED       Prjct i
1991     1996      1996    SAR.91to96  ActvSAR91I96   1991     1996    1996    SAR41to96  ActvSAR MM
ServiceArea Population              121       133       140           13          19      145      178      190          33           45
Population Served        %       42.80%    63.50%    45.00%                            18.80%   51.70%   15.79%
Population Served        No          52     . 85         63          33           11       27       92       30          65            3
Connections             000s      7.040    10.370     10.000       3.330       2.960    3.920   13.320    6.000        9.400       2.080
Water Production      M3 Mill     2.776     3.576      3.218       0.800       0.442    1.706    4.454   2040         2.747       0.334
Unaccounted forWater M3 Mil      0.833     0.725     1.018       (0.108)      0.185    0.683    1.069    0.830        0.386       0.147
Unaccounted forWater    %           30%      20%        32%         -10%                  40%      24%      41%         -16%
Water Sales           M3 Mill     1.943     2.851      2.200       0.908       0.257    1.024    3.385    1.210        2.362       0.187
Average Tariff         RpdIM3       330      650                    320         (330)    363       525    1,109         162          746
Average Ops Expenditur RpdJM3       240       372                    132        (240)     206      216       339         10          133
Total Operating Revenu  Rps Mill  748.00  2,212.00                 1,464        (748)    495    2,453    1,854         1,958       1,359
Total Operating Expens  Rps Mili  466.67  1,064.00                  597         (467)    211       730      410         519          199
Depreciation          Rps Mill      289       683                   394         (289)      91      519      520         428          429
Net Inconel(Loss)     Rps Mill    0.64    205.00                    204           (1)    149       642      490         493          341
Employees 1,000 Conns   No                                                                                    9
Suliria Investment- Total RpsdM3
Debt Coverage Ratio
Note - SAR data is for 9 months; where relevant this as been grossed up
PDAM BONE                                             PDAM              LUWU
SAR(I)    SAR    ESTIMATED        Projec Impact       SAR(1)    SAR   ESTIMATED       P-Ject _meo
1991     1996      1996    SARI dto96  AotvSAR9196   1991     1996     1996    SAR-91to96  PAct vAR S9I
Service Area Population              61       64         91           3           30       60       78       86          18           26
Population Served        %       43.10%    55.30%    39.05%                            5S9.10%   84.60%   65.12%
Population Served        No          26       35         35           9            9       36       66       56          30           20
Connections             000's     3.980     6.350      7.050       2.370       3.070    4.740    9.160    8.265        4.420       3.525
Water Production      M3 Mil     1.975     2.620      2.366       0.645       0.381    1.824    3.468    5.600        1.644       3.776
Unaccounted for Water M3 Mill     0.700     0.750     0.606        0.050      (0.094)   0.365    0.696    3.099        0.331       2.734
Unaccounted for Water    %          35%       29%       26%          -7%                  20%      20%      55%          0%
Water Sales           M3 Mill     1.275     1.870      1.750       0.595       0.475    1.459    2.772    2.501        1.313       1.042
Average Tariff         RpsIM3       335       510       808          175         473      183      440                  257         (163)
Average Ops Expenditur Rpd/M3       169       241       576          72          407       126     186                   60         (126)
Total Operating Revenu  Rps Mill    445     1,052     1,410         607          S65      343    1,658                 1,315        (343)
Totai Operating Expens  Rps Mill    216       451      1,008        235          792      184      515                  331         (184)
Depreciaton           Rps Mill       82      270         96         188           14       57      345                  288          (57)
Net Incomed(Loss)     FRps Mill       1      200        880         199          879      127      449                  322         (127)
Employees/ 1,000 Conns   No                               17
Suliria Investnent- Total RpdfM3
Debt Coverage Ratio
Note - SAR data ia for 9 months; where relevant this aa been grossed up



21
Table 6: Key Performance Indicators for Project Operatlon
b) Local Government Financial Performance
KODYA MANADO            KODYA BITUNG       KODYA UJG PANDANG          KAB BONE             KAB LUWU          KODYA PAREPARE
1995196      1995196   1995/96     1995196   1995196       1995196   1995196    1995196  1995196     1995196  1995196     1995196
ALL FIGURES Rp MUI    Actual        SAR       Actual       SAR      Actual        SAR      Actual      SAR    Actual        SAR    Actual        SAR
Balance Brought Forward          -                       31                    503                 1,232         -
Local Revenues                 8,734        7,529      1,606        821     18,434       14,289    3,806       3,365    3,854       2,885    2,407       2,321
Taxes                        4,044        2,240       734         214      7,800        5,627      503        432       443        429       496        467
Charges                      4,013        5,283       738         599      8,591        6,017    3,028       2,162    2,889       1,957    1,571       1,724
Local Enterprises              - )                         )                 92           -          9         -         30)                   7 )
PDAM                           150)                    68 )         9        570)       2,645       37)       771        28)        -        -   )       130
Departmental Income             8)            7         8 )                  -   )        -          2         -         46)       499        80) 
Otherlncome                    518)                    58 )                1,382)         -        227)        -        417         -        253)
Assigned Revenues              2,875 )      1,481      1,615 )      738      8,773  )     4,245    3,722 )    1,788    5,601  )    1,619    1,974 )        565
PBB                          2,174 )                 1,371  )     -        5,815  )     4,245    3,119 )       -      2,643 )    1,619    1,649 )        -
OtherAssigned Taxes           439 )       1,481       109 )                1,887 )                 196 )       -        139 )       -        166 )       565
OtherAssigned Revenues         262 )                  134 )       -        1,070 )                 407 )              2,819 )       -        159 )
Grants & Subsidies            23,868        7,706     10,871       3,448    51,355       36,557   40,539      30,780   43,492      30,413   10,943       6,695
Recurrent Grants            18,914        5,446      7,090       1,507    34,972       29,633   29,900      22,260   28,919      22,844    7,360       4,559
Inpres Tk II & Jalan         4,535 )      2,260      3,508 )    1,941      8,423 )      3,539    8,607 )    6,688   13,071  )    5,859    3,004 )    2,136
Other Grants                  419 )                   272 )       -        1,200 )      4,043    2,032 )    1,128       -   )    1,175       -
SPABP                                                  -                   6,760        3,385      -           704                  536      -
Loans Raised                   2,500        2,800       250         -        4,558         8,950     430         -        847        -
TOTAL FUNDS AVAILABLE         38,359       19,516     14,373        -       83,623        64,040   49,728     35,934   57,111      34,917   15,425       9,581
Recurrent Expenditure         28,513        11,909     9,810       2,319    54,854        43,296   34,620     26,229   34,361      26,875   10,420       6,403
13         -        .                    . -
Development Expenditure        9,744       12,188      4,535       3,203    27,515          -      13,182      9,706   19,203       9,004    4,582       4,512
otal Expenditure             38,257        24,097    14,345       5,522    82,369          -     47,802      35,934   53,864      35,880   15,003       10,915
DC R                              10           10    N/A             45          8                 W NA           31      .             3       51           4



22
ICR-Annex A
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study/technical assistance  at appraisa/redefined   Status          Impact of study
1. IRJA Water Resources Study   Watershed           completed       Substantial- would be a
Part I: Availability of resource  management and                   major input into any follow-
Part II: Further investigation of  protection                       on investment changes.
availability, fnance, private sector
involvement, institutional
strengthening, and investments
requirements in nine PDAMs.
2. Unaccounted-for-Water Study  Efficiency          Completed       Showed that the problem is
more institutional than
physical.
3. Ujung Pandang Drainage Study    Preparation of Master completed  Substantial, priority
Plan & priority                    investments to be
investments                        implemented under SUDP2
4. Watershed Management Study for protection of     completed       Substantial, if protection
Jayapura, Sorong, and Timika    catchment area, land                committees maintained.
erosion
5. Master Plan for Human Waste &   Improved sanitation & completed  Excellent Study, limited
Wastewater Disposal for Manado    protection of water              impact to date due to City's
quality                            unwillingness to accept
sanitation as a priority.
6. Biak Water Source Investigation   Review of catchment completed  Substantial - helped to
area, physical                     define actions of watershed
characteristics, of the            management committee
groundwater resource
7. Strategies for fast growing Urban  Develop growth  Completed     Provided very useful
Areas in Sulawesi and Irian Jaya.    strategies, Identify           background document for
investment priorities              identification of second
Sulawesi UDP2 (Loan
4105-IND)



23
TABLE 8A1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
(US $ Million)    ,_^l
Appralsal Exchange Rate    1845 Rp = US S1          Actual      2320    Rp = US $1
Item              Original Project Cost Estimate  Latest Project Cost Esdimate
Local   Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign     Total
A Infrastructure Sulawesi
1 Water Supply                     10.14     8.18     18.32       7.30      5.90      13.20
2 Drainage                         12.95      7.59    20.54      15.65      9.17      24.82
3 Urban Roads                      30.08     15.45    45.53      32.11     16.49      48.60
4 Solid Waste                       3.58      2.06     5.64       3.84      2.21       6.05
5 Human Waste                       1.46      0.87     2.33       1.01      0.60       1.60
6 Kampung Improvement               3.79      2.01     5.80       3.80      2.01       5.81
7 Market Infrastrusture             0.33      0.16     0.49       0.46      0.23       0.69
Sub Total Infrastrucuture        62.33     36.31    98.64      64.17     36.60     100.77
8 Current O&M la                    6.29      2.87     9.16       2.53      1.16       3.69
9 Incremental O&M / a               6.50      3.79    10.30        -         -          -
Sub Total O&M                     12.79     6.67    19.46       2.53       1.16      3.69
Sub Total Investment & O&M       75.12    42.98    118.10      66.70     37.76     104.46
B  Water Supply Irian Jaya               11.11     16.91    28.02      10.40     15.84      26.24
C  Technical Assistance
I Implementation Support            9.97     5.53     15.50       5.34      1.79       7.13
2 Institutional Capacity Building   2.33      1.90     4.23       2.09      0.59       2.68
3 Project Preparation               1.63      1.36     2.98       3.92      0.17       4.09
Sub Total Technical Assistance   13.93      8.78    22.71      11.35      2.55      13.90
Total Project Cost               100.16    68.67    168.83     88.46      56.15    144.61
Interest During Construction           2.22     17.13    19.35      2.22      17.13      19.35
Total Financing Requirement           102.38    85.80    188.18     90.68      73.27    163.95
J a Non-water supply only
Base costs are in October 1990 prices
Note: Operation & Maintenance can not be clealry identified between existing and incremental.
sartab2$ ICR-TAB8.XLS 12/20/97



24
TABLE 8A2: PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
(Rps Billion)
Item           Original Project Cost Estimate Latest Project Cost Estimate |
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total |
-11
A   Infrastructure Sulawesi
1 Water Supply               18.70    15.10    33.80    16.94    13.68    30.62
2 Drainage                   23.90    14.00    37.90    36.31    21.27    57.58
3 Urban Roads                55.50    28.50    84.00    74.49    38.25   112.74
4 Solid Waste                 6.60     3.80    10.40    8.91     5.13    14.04
5 Human Waste                 2.70     1.60    4.30     2.34     1.39     3.72
6 Kampung Improvement         7.00     3.70    10.70    8.82     4.66    13.49
7 Market Infrastrusture       0.60    0.30     0.90     1.07     0.53     1.60
Sub Total Infrastrucuture  115.00    67.00   182.00   148.88    84.91   233.79
8 Current O&M /a             11.60     5.30    16.90    5.87     2.68     8.55 See Note
9 Incremental O&M / a        12.00    7.00    19.00      -        -
Sub Total O&M              23.60    12.30    35.90     5.87    2.68     8.55
Sub Total Investment & O&  138.60    79.30   217.90   154.75    87.59   242.34
B   Water Supply Irian Jaya         20.50    31.20    51.70    23.05    35.07    58.12
C   Technical Assistance
I Implementation Support     18.40    10.20    28.60    12.39    4.15    16.53    0.00
2 Institutional Capacity Buildi  4.30  3.50    7.80     4.85     1.37  .  6.22     -
3 Project Preparation         3.00    2.50     5.50     9.10     0.40     9.50     -
Sub Total Technical Assista  25.70    16.20    41.90    26.34  5.92    32.25    0.00
Total Project Cost        184.80   126.70   311.50   204.13   128.59   332.72    0.00
Interest During Construction    4.10    31.60    35.70     4.10    31.60    35.70 See Note
Total Financing Requirement    188.90   158.30   347.20   208.23   160.19   368.42
/ a Non-water supply only
Base costs are in October 1990 prices
Note: Operation & Maintenance can not be clealry identified between existing and incremental.
ICR-TAB8.XLS sartab2rps 12120/97



sartab3APP
25
Table 8B1: Project Financing Plan Summary - Appraisal
Rp Billion
fReqional Sources        OnLent            lw                APBN        Japanes   Tota    IBRD    G O J       GOI
Private  Local  Provincial  IBRD   Domestic  lBRD   Domestic  IBRD    Domestic  Grant
Infrastructure
1 Water Supply                  -      13.00     -     26.70     3.00                      31.40     11.40            85.50    58.10      .       27,40       0.00
2 Drainage                      -       3.00    2,35    0.30              2.90     1.55    21.00      6.80            37.90    24.20              13.70        -
3 Solid Waste                   -       0.20     -      6.65     0.80    0.10               1.94      0.64            10.33     8.69               1.64       0.00
4 Human Waste                  1.00    0.24      -      1.45     0.20     0.30     0.10     0.80      0.25             4.34     2.55               1.79
5 Urban Roads                  1.20    2.20    6.20   10.90      1.30   22.00      8.30    24.20      7.80            84.10    57.10      .       27.00      (0.00)
6 Kampung Improvement           -       2.95    0.10     -                3.70     1.20     2.05      0.70            10.70     5.75               4.95      (0.00)
7 Market Infrastrusture         -       0.74             -                                  0.14                       0.88     0.14               0.74        -
Sub Total Infrastrucuture     2.20   22.33    8.65   46.00      5.30    29.00    11.15    81.53    27.59           233.75   156.53      ,       77.22       0.00
8 Current O&M /a                -       9,70    5.10                               2.70               1.54            19.04      -                19.04        -
9 Incremental O&M / b           -       8,40    5.00                               2.20               1.34            16.94                       16.94
Sub Total O&M                 -      18.10   10.10          -            -       4.90      -        2.88             35.98                      35.98
Sub Total Investment & O&M    2.20   40.43   18.75   46.00      5.30    29.00    16.05    81.53    30.47     -      269.73   156.53            113.20       0.00
Technical Assistance                       2.35    0.50    4.20     0.30     1.60     0.60    21.90      8.60    1.80    41.85    27.70     1.80     12.35      (0.00)
Total Project Cost / c        2.20   42.78   19.25   50.20      5.60    30.60    16.65   103.43    39.07    180   311.58   184.23       1.80    125.55     000
Interest During Construction              12.65                                                         22.98            35.63                      63583
Total Financing /c                2.20    55.43   19.25   50.20     5.60    30.60    16.65   103.43     6205    1.80   347.21   184.23      1.80    161.18        00
.~~ _   _  -   =  _                                 =      _  a         -     _-                   -       -_        _                       
/ a Local induses Rp 9.5 million user charges
/ b Non-water supply only
/ c Total may not add up due to rounding
tb8AP ICR-TABSXLS 121201e7



sartab3APP
26
Table 8B2: Project Financing Plan Summary - Latest Projection
R Billion
Regional Sources         On Lent            In res             APBN        Japanes   Total    IBRD       G O J     GOI
Private  Local  Provincial  IBRD  _Domestic  IBRD   I Domestic  IBRD   Domestic  Grant
Infrastructure
1 Water Supply                          10.65            28.19     0.80                       40.00      9.10             88.74    68.19       -       20.55       (0.00)
2 Drainage                               4.02    3.47     1.89             28.60      4.80    10.35      4.46             57.58    40.83       -       16.75       0.00
3 Solid Waste                            1.63    0.09     4.79              0.74      4.58               2.22             14.04     5.53                8.51       (0.00)
4 Human Waste                            1.06             1.40              0.59      0.39     0.03      0.24              3.72     2.03       -        1.70       (0.00)
5 Urban Roads                            4.37    2.28    14.21             27.67     39.89    12.61     11.71            112.74    54.49               58.25
6 Kampung Improvement                    0.92    0.53     0.82              5.45      1.39     3.30       1.08            13.49     9.57                3.92       (0.00)
7 Market Infrastrusture                  0.32    0.04     0.16              0.82      0.28                                 1.60     0.98                0.62       0.00
Sub Total Infrastrucuture             22.97    6.41    51.46      0.80    63.86    51.31    66.29      28.82           291.91    181.61             110.30        -
8 Current O&M /a                         5.12    0.01                                 3.21               0.22              8.55      -                  8.55
9 Incremental O&M / b
Sub Total O&M                          5.12    0.01      -        -        -        3.21      -         0.22             8.55       -                 8.55
Sub Total Investment & O&M            28.09    6.41    51.46      0.80    63.86    54.52    66.29      29.04           300.47    181.61             118.85       (0.00)
Technical Assiatance \d                                                                          29.00       1.45    1.80    32.25    29.00      1.80      1.45       (0.00)
Total Project Cost                    28.09     6.41    51.46     0.80    63.86    54.52    95.30      30.49    1.80   332.72    210.62     1.80    120.30       (0.00)
Interest During Construction               12.65                                                           22.98             35.63                        35.63
Total Financing /c                         40.74    641    51.46 =   0.80    63.86      54.52    9530      53.47    1.80   368.35    210.62      1.80    155.93       (0.00
/ a  Local induses Rp 9.5 million user charges
/ b Non-water supply only
/ c Total may not add up due to rounding
/d  Estimated GOI contribution @ 5%
sartab3APP ICR-TAB8.XLS 12120/97



27
ICR-Annex A
Table 9A: Economic and Financial Evaluation
Water Supply
At the project appraisal stage, both economic and financial analyses were carried out for the water supply
investments. The economic analyses were based on cost and benefit comparison between piped water and other
sources of water. They utilized a model (ECOWAT) developed by the World Bank for Indonesia. The fnancial
analyses were based on the expected revenues generated from the new connections and the investment costs. They
also used a fnancial model (FINPRO) developed by the World Bank for Indonesia. The estimated economic and
fnancial returns (EIRR and FIRR) are summarized below:
Table 1: Estimated Economic and Financial Returns at Project Appraisal
City (Local Government)            EIRR             FIRR
Watampone (Bone)                   12.8%              6%
Palopo (Luwu)                      10.4%             6.0%
Manado                             14.0%             16.6%
Gorontalo                          9.7%              12.1%
Donggala (Palu)                    14.6%             10.5%
Jayapura                                       _ 16.8%  6.2%
Biak                               16.2%            -3.7%
Sorong            __ _           _ 22-0%     l       5.4%
Fak Fak                     X      13.4%         _ -6.9%
Nabire                      j      16.6%     j       -0.3%
Serui                        ___               _    -5.8%
Manokwari                          10.3%            -3_.6%
Source: SAR and Consultant's Economic Evaluation Reports.
According to the consultant's Economic Evaluation Report on Sulawesi investments, the EIRRs for Palopo
and Gorontalo water supply investments were 6% and 3%, respectively, assuming that people would continue to
boil piped water for drinking; if it was assumed that people would no longer boil piped water for drinking, the
EIRRs would increase to 10% and 10%, respectively.
Note that the EIRRs for Palopo and Gorontalo water supply investments in Table 1 above are, as in the
SAR, 10.4% and 9.7%, not 6% and 3% as shown in the consultant's Report. It is not clear whether the high EIRRs
are due to the assumption that people would not boil piped water anymore, or due to any modifications that might
had been made after the consultant's Report.
To prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), the Borrower and the implementation
consultants made efforts to estimate the financial and economic rates of returns for the completed water supply
investments. The Bank provided the Borrower and the consultants with detailed comments on their draft economic
and financial evaluation section in the ICR. The fnal reports still contained errors that rendered the results
unusable. Some major problems are: a. high coverage (a fixed 60% from 1996 to 2020); b. long evaluation period
(25 years); and c. PDAMs continue to receive connection fees every year over the 25-year period while no
corresponding connection costs are included and not enough water can be provided from the investments. Even
with these optimistic assumptions, many FIRRs and EIRRs were only marginal or negative.
While reasonable estimates of the FIRRs and EIRRs are not available for the completed water supply
investments, an assessment can nevertheless be made based on a comparison of connections, tariffs, revenues,
unaccounted-for-water, and operating costs between appraisal forecasts (which formed the basis of economic and



28
financial analyses at appraisal) and completion actual. Such a comparison shows that almost all the PDAMs fell
short on these critical performance indicators; some PDAMs were significantly below the targets. On the basis of
some sensitivity analyses conducted during appraisal and sample analyses carried out by the Bank at completion, it
is reasonable to conclude that the economic and fnancial returns at project completion are significantly below the
appraisal estimates as shown in Table 1 above; the EIRRs would be just barely above zero and the FIRRs all
negative.
Urban Roads and Drainage
Due to the large number of small sub-projects, the SAR specified that medium (between Rp 400 million
and Rp 2 billion) and large sub-projects (above Rp. 2 billion) in urban roads, drainage and water supply sectors
would require economic analyses. Economic viability of small sub-projects was presumed, provided that they
follow the agreed planning and design criteria. Medium sub-projects were subject to a simplified economic
analysis, while large sub-projects had to go through a more detailed analysis.
Another feature of the project is that the project followed a programmatic approach to ensure flexibility in
sub-project selection. Under this approach, subprojects to be implemented after the first year were not evaluated
during appraisal; they were supposed to be evaluated during the project implementation period, when these sub-
projects were proposed by local governments.
The SAR did not present any estimates of EIRRs for the first year medium and large sub-projects in urban
roads and drainage. The consultant's Economic Evaluation Report contained some brief analyses for the first year
large and medium urban roads and drainage sub-projects. The urban road analyses followed the Ministry of Public
Works "Urban Road Planning and Programming Manual", as recommended by the Bank. Vehicle operation cost
savings and user time savings were used as benefits. The drainage analyses used land value increases and road
maintenance cost savings as benefits.
The consultant's ICR Report shows that some 67 sub-projects in urban roads and drainage were above Rp
400 million and implemented between 1992/93 and 1995/96; and there was only one urban road project that was
above Rp 2 billion, implemented in 1994/95. These medium and large sub-projects totaled about Rp 50 billion in
costs, representing about 40% of the total costs in urban roads and drainage sectors under the project. These sub-
projects were not subject to any economic evaluation before they were implemented; and there were no traffic and
land value data available. The major reasons for not carrying out any required economic analyses were limited
resources on the part of both the Bank (the bank needs to provide guidance on appropriate methodologies) and the
Borrower (the Borrower and its implementation consultants need to carry out the analyses) versus the large number
of sub-projects and project towns, and lack of expertise in the implementation agencies.
At the Bank's request, the Borrower and the ICR consultants also attempted to estimate the economic
returns on the completed large and medium urban roads and drainage projects. However, the consultant's
evaluation did not establish a clear linkage between the completed sub-projects and the estimated benefits. The
results are thus not presented here.
While reasonable estimates of the EIRRs are not available for the completed large and medium urban roads
and drainage sub-projects, an assessment can be made based on traffic flows (increased access and reduced vehicle
operating costs) and land values and enhanced quality of life from drainage improvements. Supervision
concentrated on least cost analysis and technical merits for road and drainage work.
Other Sectors
Benefits of human and solid waste management and KIP sub-projects were not required to be quantified.
No cost-benefit analyses were therefore carried out for them at project appraisal, and cost-benefit analyses are not
required at project completion, either. Technical evaluation ensure of that these sub-projects represent least cost
solutions specific to the local needs and conditions.



29
ICR-Annex A
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original   Revised
Covenant Present Fulfillment Fulfillment
Agreement Section    type         status   Date        Date        Description of Covenant                    Comments
Loan        2.02 (b)        I        C                             Open & Maintain Special Account in Dollars
in BI and operate for LA schedule 6
3.01 (a)       10        C                             Carry out project with due diligence with
appropriate administrative, environmental &
financial practices & provide necessary funds
and other required resources
3.01 (b) (i)    10       PC                            Carry out project in accordance with agreed  Not fully complied with in relation to PIA
PIA's satisfactory to Bank                provisions for operations and maintenance
in the project Tk II in Sulawesi, except in
Kotamadya Ujung Pandang
3.01 (b)       10        C                             Carry out project in accordance with schedule
__ _ _ _ _ (ii)      S__  _ _                                                                                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _
3.03 (a)      3,10       C                              Sign PLA's with participating Local
Governments on terms agreed with the Bank
l________              m_______                                    incorporating interest rate of 10.5%.
3.04           2         PC                            Convert BPAM's to PDAM's, prepare action Not been fully complied with in terms of
plan therefor, and adjust tariffs per 4.02 &    implementation of tariff increases to fully
4.03 (Note: All conversions have been     cover operation and maintenance,
completed)                                depreciation and interest. Required tariff
increases have been both delayed and
reduced by the Tk II and Tk I
governments, and the result is that water
enterprise tariff adjustments have taken
l________                                    ______________________________________     place  at three  yearly   intervals.
3.05          9,10             June 1993   October    Conduct comprehensive Mid-term Review of Midterm-review conducted in October
1994        program & revise program including         1994.
environmental management plans.
3.06           2,5       NC   6/1 annually              Review previous year O&M expenditures &   Not been complied with either by the
ensure levels reach 90% of agreed progran at borrower or the participating local
l ________    ________    ________  _______    __________________   m inim um .                               governm ents.



30
3.07            5,10        PC    7/1/92                      Establish Water Enterprise Support Unit in    Partially complied with; there are still
Irian Jaya.                                    deficiencies in the non-technical aspects -
finance and economics.
4.01 (a)         1,9         C                                Arrange for Annual audits of all Project
Accounts & provide unified Project audit
report to Bank not later than 9 months after
FY closes.
4.02 (a)                     C                                No PDAM debt converge ratio shall be less
than 1.3 except that of Jayapura PDAM
which shall be less than 1.5.
4.02 (b)                     C                                No PDAM debt shall be more than 70% of
total capitalization
4.02 (c) (i)                 C                                Each BPAM & PDAM  shall produce gross   Best estimate ( based on information
revenue not less than the operating expenses  received but some PDAM not yet covered)
4.02 (c) (ii)               NC                                Each BPAM  and PDAM  shall produce gross
revenue not less than the sum of operating
expenses & deprecation
4.03                        Cp                                (a) Review & adjust BPAM & PDAM tariffs
to meet 4.02 A-C and (b) send copy of review
l _______     _______     ________     ______    ________      _________   report  to   Bank.                               ___________rpor_t_Bnk
4.04                         C                                No Local Government debt coverage ratio
shall be less than 1.5 (excluding routine
expenditures)
C = Covenant complied with               Covenant type:
CD = Complied with after delay             I = Account/Audits
CP = Complied with partially               2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries
NC = Not complied with                     3 = flow and utilization of project funds
4 = Counterpart funding
5 = Management aspects of project or executing agency
6 = Enviromnental covenants
7 = Involuntary resettlement
8 = Indigenous people
9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting
10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 - Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13 = other



31
ICR-Annex A
Table 11: Compliance with Operation Manual Statements
Statement number and title                 Description and comment on lack of compliance
None                     No significant lack of compliance with
applicable Bank manual statements observed
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stages of                                Staff weeks                       Amount
project cycle                              Actual                         US$('000)
Through Appraisal                           98.6                            318.6
Appraisal-effectiveness                     25.3                             60.3
Supervision                                 147.5                           318.1
Completion                                  9.9                              22.8
TOTAL/planned/                             281.3                            719.8



ICR-Annex A
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
tages of project cycle    Month/ No. of  SW in Specialized staff skills Implementation Develop.   Types of problems
Year   persons\ field: represented       Status         Impact
I
Through Appraisal
Apr. '87 4     n/a   FA, WSE, 0, C
Feb.'88 6      n/a   FA, IS, ME, 0, IS, Ec
Jun.'88        n/a   FA, ME, 0, IS, Ec, C
Mar.'89        n/a   FA, IS, Ec, C
Jul. '90       n/a   Ec, E, SE, UP, ME
Nov. 90         n/a  Ec, ME, SE, E. (2),
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _UP
Appraisal to Board     Nov.   6        16    Ec, ME, SE, E(2), UP
'90
Supervision (type)                       _
full                   Nov.'91 5       8     ME, E, UP, FA, 0    2             1          TA progress slow
full                   July '92 5      8     ME, E, FA, E, 0    2              1          Sl slow progress with TA mobilization. TOR under preparation.
limited                Nov.   4       n/a?
'92
full                   July '93 2      18    ME, FA             2              1          Watershed management in Irian Jaya working with mixed results;
IUIDP component in Sulawesi proceeding more slowly.
Part One: Mid-term     June/Jul. 6    23    ME, 0(2), FA, E, EE  S            S           Part one of the Mid-term Review: Concem over the pace of
Review                '94                                                                implementation and quality and sustainability of the physical works;
entire project suffers from lack of adequate supervision and
monitoring, tariff review of Irian Jay water enterprises need attention;
_land fill sites location development at city of Bitung
Part Two: Mid-term    /Dec.   6       23    ME, 0, FA, E, EE    S             S          Attributed implementation problem as lack of adequate supervision
Review                '94                                                                and remote dispersal location of project sites
full                  Apr. '95 5      24    E, FA, ME, O                                 No 590 in file
imited                July '95 3      6     ME, FA, 0                                    Civil works deficiencies requiring repair in Irian Jaya; PDAMs
mproblems: training in tariff analysis; ownership of PDAM of Jayapura



33
Performance rating
tages of project cycle    Month/ No. of  SW in Specialized staff skills Implementation Develop.   Types of problems
Year   personsN  field: represented      Status        Impact
and increase in tariff.
limited               Nov.   2        6     FA, 0                                       Need put Wamena system into operation; Irian Jaya PMDU - need for
'95                                                              a qualified financial staff.
full                  May '96 3       10    FA, ME, O          S             S                                                                     I
limited               July '96 1      2     FA                                          Re-allocation of loan funds for maintenance of drainage sub-projects
limited               July '96 1      0.8   0                                           Follow up timely completion (December 31, 1996) of Manado
PDAM, Bitung, etc. constructions with attention to SLAP
arrangements with DP3 of MOF
limited               Sept.   1       2     WSE                                         Identified watershed issues in the project area.
'96
full/ICR              Dec. '96 5      24    ME, 0, FA, E, EE    S            NR         Extensive Review of the status of the project
limited               Apr. '97 1        _   0                                           Follow up on the December ICR- Sustainability of project:
construction of steel tank works proceeding satisfactorily; but
maintenance of new facilities need attention.
limited/ICR           July '97 3      6     EE, FA, WSE                                  Sustainability of project.
E = Environmental Specialist; Ec = Economist; EE= Environmental Engineer; FA = Financial Specialist; IS = Institutional Specialist; ME = Municipal Engineer; 0 =
Operation Officer/Procurement Specialist; SE = Sanitation Engineer; UP = Urban Planner; WSE = Water Supply Engineer



/~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-35-
Appendix A
Mission's Aide Memoire
The World Bank                              1818 H Street N.W.        (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT   Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCLATION       U.S.A.                    Cable Address: INDEVAS
January 13, 1997
Prof. Dr. Herman Haeruman
Deputy Chairman for Regional Affairs
BAPPENAS
JI. Taman Suropati 2
Bali, Indonesia 80361
Dear Prof. Herman:
Sulawesi Irian Jaya UDP (Ln 3340) - Completion Mission
A World Bank team led by Dan Hoornweg carried out the completion mission for
the above project. Attached is the final aide memoire as endorsed by the Bank.
Although this project has been consistently rated as satisfactory, the mission had
serious concerns with the overall" sustainability" of the investments. This is mainly due
to numerous instances of poor construction quality, very inadequate efforts in operations
and maintenance, a lack of a " municipal management" focus, and continued institutional
weaknesses which are at the root of these problems.
The project has been extended by six months (now due to close 30 June, 1997) to
complete some still ongoing contracts, address some immediate deficiencies, and ensure
adequate commissioning of larger civil works, e.g. Jayapura water pipeline and Manado
water treatment Plant. Hopefully, some of the institutional weaknesses and O&M
deficiencies can also be addressed during this time to the extent possible within the very
limited time frame.
We have tried to ensure that the lessons learned from SIJUDP are directly applied
to the second Sulawesi UDP. Your comments at negotiations, stressing the need for
technical assistance based on " hands on" assistance and management help at the local
government level, are extremely relevant. This, and a change away from a " project
mentality" towards overall urban management, seem to be the most relevant lessons
coming out of this completion mission.
We are still awaiting documentation from DG Cipta Karya (GOI's own
completion reports for the two separate components) before we can complete our



-36-
Implementation Completion Report. We anticipate receiving this by 15 March, 1997. We
would then have the Bank's Completion Report prepared shortly after loan closing.
We are pleased to see significant progress with the watershed protection programs
in Irian Jaya. I would particularly like to thank the Governor Drs. Jacob Pattipi for his
personal interest in the one workshop held during the mission. His agreement to pass
another SK strengthen the watershed protection committees through more clearly defined
budgets and meeting schedules should be very helpful.
An important issue arose during the supervision mission. Kotamadya Manado has
withdrawn funds from the Special Account in excess of the agreed in the July 1996 no
objection letter. We require that these funds be reimbursed immediately.
We plan to send a small supervision team to Irian Jaya in March to review
progress with completion action plans in Jayapura, Sorong, Biak and Sorong, and a
further mission, perhaps in conjunction with the Second Sulawesi UDP start-up activities,
towards project completion.
With best wishes,
Sincerely yours,
(signed)
Anupam Khanna
Chief, Infrastructure Operations
Country Department III
East Asia & Pacific Region
cc:   Dr. Ir. Manuwoto, Chairman TKPP
Dr. Ir. Bambang Panudju, Executive Secretary, TKPP
Dr. Ir. Sujana Royat, Kepala, Biro P4R, BAPPENAS
Ir. Rachmadi B. Sumadhijo, Director General, Cipta Karya (MPW)
Ir. Asrap Hadiroso, Director, Easter Region Development, DGCK
Ir. Djoko Kirmanto, Director, Bina Program, DGCK
PPMO/PPMU/PMOs/PMUs/CPMO and Advisory Consultants



-37-
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
*  This project is an amalgamation of two projects.
*  Bank ICR mission, accompanied by some Pusat (DGCK) staff, visited Irian Jaya and
four Sulawesi provinces (13 out of 17 project towns) and met with provincial and
local government officials to review completed works and obtain their views.
*  Physical implementation of project was completed within the original closing date
with only minor exceptions, and largely within the original scope.
*  Testing, commissioning and "handling over" are still outstanding on several sub-
projects.
*  Technical assistance was also completed on time except on one still ongoing study.
*  Limited extension of the loan closing date has been requested by GOI, and a 6-month
extension to permit completion of the unfinished contracts has been granted.
*  Extension would also allow time (and possibly funds) to remedy some serious
deficiencies, such as Jayapura transmission pipelines, Sorong WTP, action plans for
waste disposal sites in Sulawesi.
*  Disbursements are at about 90 %, and the project is expected to be completely
disbursed.
*  Borrower's draft ICR has been received for Irian Jaya Water Supply component, but
not yet for the Sulawesi IUIDP component.
*  Borrower's views at the local (Tk II) and Provincial level were articulate, perceptive
and generally very positive, such as provision of additional funding, greater
cleanliness of most towns, better planning and programming capabilities.
*  Preliminary Borrower views from the Pusat level were also largely positive, although
concerns with "sustainability" were raised.
*  Mission's views of the implementation performance are not as positive at all,
especially because of doubts about the sustainability of the investments.
* Main concerns of mission are the poor quality of the significant portions of the
physical investments, lack of O&M funding and execution, and persistent institutional
weaknesses.
*  Lessons from this project's implementation performance have been largely
incorporated into the design of the Second Sulawesi UDP (and may also be applicable
to other proposed water and sanitation investments in Eastern Indonesia)
*  In terms of the original project objectives:
*  the provision of the urban infrastructure has been achieved, albeit with serious
quality problems
*  better planning and programming has been achieved, but institutional
weaknesses persist and O&M funding and execution were woefully
inadequate.
* Local government revenue generation and cost recovery have improved substantially,
but sound financial management, in particular, is less evident watershed management
in Irian Jaya is startling to work in some local governments.



-38-
* The project highlights the need for local Governments to move away from a "project
mentality towards overall urban management.
* The Special Account needs to be replenished due to serious over drawing in respect of
Kotamadya Manado.



-39-
Appendix B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
SULAWESI IUIDP SUB-PROJECT
THE IMPLEMENTATION PROJECT REPORT OF INDONESIA
Preface
This report reviews the implementation experience of the Sulawesi and Irian Jaya Urban
Development project (SIJUDP) in Indonesia. This project involved a loan for US$100
million, which was agreed on August 8, 1991 and became effective in November 1991.
Initially Loan closing was extended from December 31, 1996 to June 30, 1997, due to
administrative needs and technical concerns.
The funding of the project was also aided by Japan, which provided funding in the
amount of Y103.6 million, or about US $740.000, to fund the technical assistant during
project preparation.
The material used to prepare this report is SAR, Loan Agreement, P3KT Study, CPMO
report, Aides Memoirs, and data from regional governments.
The implementation report of the SIJUDP project consists of two parts, namely:
Part I: Project Goals, Results Achieved, Problems Faced, and so on.
Part II: Physical Development; Implementation, Problems, and Efforts to Remedy.



-40-
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
Urban population growth in Sulawesi and Irian Jaya Provinces for the future 5-10 years is
assumed to create a gap between Service need and Service capability. Such a gap is
getting far if it is not anticipated earlier, particularly the condition of those urban
infrastructures will be declining seriously.
The SIJUDP Project was intended to overcome those gaps, but due to fund constraints
faced by GOI, the development was implemented gradually over the five budgetary Years
and IBRD Loan was required as a supporting fund.
CHAPTER 1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
General objectives of SIJUDP (according to SAR) are:
a)    To provide urban infrastructures properly.
b)    To improve capability of local government to prepare its development program
and financial plan.
c)    To improve financial management of Local Government.
The project was directed for some fast growing cities in Sulawesi Province, such as
Ujung Pandang, Pare-Pare, bone, Palopo, Kendari, Palu, Manado, Gorontalo and Bitung,
while development sectors being prioritized were KIP, Solid Waste, Sanitation, Market,
Urban Roads, Water Supply and Drainage. For some cities in Irian Jaya Province the
project was focused on water supply only in Jayapura, Sorong, Serui, Nabire, Fak Fak,
Wamena, Monokawari and Biak.
The project objective was to realize National Development strategy and IBRD strategy
that emphasizes improvement of services, improvement of local government financing
capability and reservation of living environment. Success or failure to achieve the
objective depend on various factors that need to be fulfilled by the Government, i.e.:
1.    Provision fund for development.
2.    Provision fund for operation and maintenance.
3.   Institutional management and development.
4.    Community participation.



44
CHAPT'ER 2
Implementation of SIJUDP projects was the first experience for all cities, except for
Ujung Pandang, however the overall result was satisfactorily achieved. The projects were
in good settlement and reach objectives, e.g. to improve services to community and to
improve local revenue generation. However, its sustainability will depend on availability
of fund for maintenance and community's attitude to have "sense of belonging" of the
development result.
Failure and difficulties that have been faced are very valuable to be examined that such
failures wan't be repeated and efforts done to handle the difficulties can be reviewed for
the implementation of the similar projects in the future.
a. Constrains in the project administration are:
- Delay of disbursement procedure, mainly the SLAP mechanism, etc.
b. Problems in field implementation:
- Difficulty in finding the right Final Disposal Sites (Solid Waste Component)
- Silting up of the drains
c. Problems concerning the project institution are:
- Lack of skilled staffs
- Lack of good coordination among the agencies involved in the project
Summary of planned project expenditure and its actual expenditure up into March 1997 is
presented in Table RI



-42-
Table RI.: Summary of DIP Fund Allocation and Realization of Project Cost Payment SIJUDP
No.                          GOI            IBRD           EQ USD 000
(RP MILL)     (RP MILL)
1.   SAR ALLOCATION
- Physical Project           95,900.00     156,600.00      84,820.00
-Technical Assistance        10,200.00     27,931.20       15,180.00
_____________________       106,100.00     184,531.20     100,000.00
2    DIP ALLOCATION
- Physical Project          130,469.75     185,348.85     84,020.33
- Technical Assistance       10,200.00     37,051.00       16,771.39
140,669.75    222,399.85     100,791.72
3    CONTRACTED
- Physical Project          118,336.94     183,039.99      83,012.25
- Technical Assistance                     37.051.71      16,,771,3
118,336.94    215,987.05      98.783.64
4    PAYMENT MADE
- Physical Project          117,785.49     173,827.43      82,982.92
- Technical Assistance                     32,639.64       14,802.56
117,785.49    206,467.07      97.785.48
DISBURSEMENT
- Physical Project                  -      167,090.92     78,833.30
- Technical Assistance                     23,651.32       14,802.56
TOTAL                                      190,742.24      93,635.86



-43-
Overall picture of financial position of SIJUDP - Project for each city as follows:
Table R2: Summary of DIP Fund Allocation and Project cost Realization as per cities in Sulawesi and Irian Jaya
No.        City      Fund  SAR Allocation  DIP Fund  Contracted   Payment    Disbursement
Source    Rp Mill)    Allocation  (Rp Mill) Made (Rp Mill)  (USD 000)
(RP Mill)
1   Ujung Pandang  IBRD        37,000.00  43,742.73  43,302.85    43,302.85    16,831.38
GOI         26,700.00  29,312.44  27,187.68    27.175.68
63,700.00  73,055.17  70,490.53    70,478.53    16,831.38
2   Pare-Pare      IBRD         3,700.00   3,964.36  3,942.32   3,942,32        1,887,70
GOI          2,100.00  10,198.48  8,954.28   8.954.28
5,800.00  14,162.84  12,896.60    12,896.60     1,887.70
3   Bone           IBRD         8,000.00   9,323.37  9,242.00   9,242.00        4.145.92
GOI          5,700.00   9,619.18  7,457.03   7,457.03
13,700.00  18,942.55  16,699.03    16,699.03    4,145.92
4    Palopo        IBRD         7,100.00   8,218.81  8,042.51   8,004.04        3,656.96
GOI          5,700.00  10,505.50  9,036.77   8,608.62
12,800.00  18,724.31  17,079.28    16,612.66    3,656.96
5   Palu           IBRD        16,000.00  14,291.25  14,095.03    14,077.84     5,149.71
GOI          8,600.00   6,830.72  6,286.75   6,255.951
24,600.00  21,121.97  20,381.78    20,333.79    5,149.71
6   Kendari       IBRD          4,200.00   5,314.87  4,940.67   4,940.67        2,322.49
GOI          3,600.00  19,091.37  17,562.79    17,562.70
7,800.00  24,406.24  22,503.46    22,503.37     2.322.49
7   Manado         IBRD        24,100.00  30,244.51  29,518.59    29,513.12    10,540.67
GOI         18,500.00  24,547.24  21,184.59    21,178.09
42,600.00  54,791.75  50,703.18    50,691.21    10,540.67
8   Gorontalo      IBRD        12,300.00  12,194.08  12,022.17    12,020.78     5,214.67
GOI          8,100.00   8,469.59  8,337.91   8,237.00
20,400.00  20,663.67  20,360.08    20,257.78     5,214.67
9   Shtung         IBRD         5,800.00   9,489.53  9,368.36   9,368.37        2,718.79
GOI          3,700.00   2,555.23  2,505.38   2,505.38        2,718.79
9,500.00  12,044.76  11,873.74    11,873.75
Total for Sulawesi   IBRD     118,200.00  136,783.51 134,474.50   134,412.00  52,468.29
II GOI                     82,700.00  121,129.75 108,513.181  107,934.73       0.00



-44-
......A.octio A..    aio.  ..l)          ae(R       UE)0*
1 . Jayapura          IBRD          14,700.00  20,302.42    20,302.42   20,302.42    10,737.74
0OI          5,700.00   3,761.31   3,761.31    3,761.31  ______
20,400.00  24,063.73    24,063.73   24,063.73    10,737.74
2. Sarong              FBRD          7,000.00  12,057.69    12,057.69   12,057.69     6,549.62
GOI           2,200.00   2,326.53   2,326.53    2,326.53     
9,200.00   14,384.22    14,384.22   14,384.22   6,549.62
3. Fak-Fak             IBRD          1,200.00   1,471.77    1,471.77    1,471.77         853.29
GOI            400.00     353.27      353.27}    353.27
1,600.00   1,825.04   1,825.04    1,825.04        853.29
4. Nabire              IBRD          2,400.00   2,408.52   2,408.52    2,408.52       1,384.92
GOI            800.00     578.50      578.50     578.50
3,200.00   2,987.02   2,987.02    2,987.02       1,384.92
5. Manokwari          IBRD           4,600.00   5,306.33   5,306.33    5,306.33       2,908.10
.            ~~~~GOT        1,500.00   1,126.11   1,126.11    1,126.11 
6,100.00   6,432.44   6,432.44    6,432.44      2,908.10
6. Biak                IBRD          4,000.00   4,416.03    4,416.03    4,416.03      2,459.12
GOI           1 ,400.00    1 ,033.17  1,033.17    1,033.17 _______
5,400.00   5,449.20   5,449.20    5,449.20      2,459.12
7. Serui               IBRD          2,000.00   1,003.01    1,003.01    1,003.01       576.67
GOT            600.00     231.87      231.87     231.87
2,600.00    1,234.88  1,234.88    1,234.88        576.67
8. Wamena              IBRD          2,500.00   1,599.57    1,599.57    1,599.57       895.55
GOT            600.00     413.00      413.00     413.00
_______________________  3,100.00   2,012.57   2,012.57    2,012.57        895.55
Total for Irian Jaya    IBRD     38,400.00  48,565.34    48,565.34   48,565.34    26,365.01
GOT          13,200.00   9,823.76   9,823.76    9,823.76 _______
Total Sulawesi + Irian Jaya   IBRD   156,600.00  185,348.85   183.039.84  182.977.34  78,833.30
GOT          95,900.00  130,953.51   118,336.94  117,758.49  ______
TA           IBRD          27,931.20  37,051.0C0   37,051.00   33,009.71    14,802.56
GOT          10,200.00.
______________________  _______ 38,131.20  37,051.00    37,051.00   33,009.71  14,802.56
TOTAL           TIBRD       184,531.20 222,399.85 |220,090.84  215,987.05    93,635.86
GOI         106,100.00  130,953.51   118,336.94  117,758.49S______
(Data Source: CPMO)
Up to March 31, 1997, physical progress for was 100% and 98% for Sulawesi and irian Jaya
respctively.
Overall disbursement was US$93,6 million ot of US$100 milion. Most of the indisbursed fund
came for the SLAP category, since there was some fund had not been accounted for by
Pemda/PDAM (in Sulawesi) and in process of replenishment by Ministry of Finance to the Bank.



-45-
THE KEY OF PROJECT SUCCESS
Success of project is mainly supported by a high responsibility and hard working performed by
local government officials to realise a renewal in their region. The responsibility was encouraged
particularly with a strong willingness to be awarded with Adipura, a symbol of city cleanliness.
BANK PERFORMANCE
Performance demonstrated by Bank in project identification, project approach, appraisal report
and project implementation supervision was very good and produced documents were very
important for project references.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT/BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Generally performance demonstrated by Local Government as borrower from the phase of
preparation of project organisation of SIJUDP, to the implementation of project and operation of
finished project was good and smooth.
Some items need to be highlighted are:
- The quality of staff assigned in the SIJUDP projects
- Provision of bigger amount of fund for maintenance
PROJECT RESULTS
The SIJUDP project was considered satisfactorily complete and that project objectives were fully
achieved, however, some matters need to be examined more careful, i.e.:
- To improve maintenance intensity to urban infrasructure
- To improve operation of Final Disposal and Human Waste Treatment Facility.
All programs, planned to be financed with the loan and GOI counterpart fund, included in the
Project Memorandum had been implemented, and some additional programs financed with
"Loan Savings" were also implemented, therefore the physical achievement.
The additional programs were aimed to optimizing the built system and technical assistance i.e.
drainage programs in Ujung Pandang, drainage and urban roads programs in Manado, water
supply systm in Irian Jaya, technical assistance for Sulawesi II UDP preparation, technical
assistance for water supply in Irian Jaya and technical assistance for the prearation of SIJ-UDP
Project Implementation Completion Report.
With the commisioning of new project components in each town, physical benefits with the
potential to enhance financial and economic benefits become abvious, key advantages were:
(i).  Increased system capacities enable PDAM's to proced with the installation of consumer
service connections resulting in increased income.
(ii).  Improved rehability of supply supported by the dissemination of project information was
had an effect on consumer confidence.



46-
(iii). Provision of increased water storage capacity in all towns has improved system
realiability and water qualit.
(iv).  Increased system capacity have allowed the PDAM's to increase consumer coverage to
include housing estates and liglot industry.
PROJECT OPERATION
The built urban facilities was handed over to the apointed units to be operated and maintenanced
in accordance wit Mayor or Bupati's decree. The facilities were expected to give more benefits
to the community and live longer.
To achieve these goals, Pemda is encourage to:
- implement the PDAMs
- implement RIAP and LIDAP
OPERATION OF URBAN FACILITIES
The newly completed urban facilities ex SIJUDP project have been in operation and under the
supervision of the respective unit, i.e. Public Works Agency, Cleaning Agency, Market Agency
etc.
From the commercial point of view, its Retribution collected still unable to cover its routine
expenditures, due to the fact that the existence of the units are not profit - making - body.
Maintenance of urban facilities seemed to be unhandled properly, due to a limited fund.
LESSON LEARNED
1 .    Project Delay
The original plan of SIJUDP implementation took place in November 1991, but it was
delayed until June 1992 due to some reasons.
- Preparation to start up the project i.e. : establishment of project organisation,
administrative software, project supporting fund etc., have not been settled properly.
- Assignment of Consultants was made few months after loan effectiveness
2.    Project Organization
Function of PMU, MPO and PFO were handicapped by their structural function in the
Local Government.
3.    Project Design
Some project design created by the Consultant were not suitable with the field condition.
4.    Final Disposal Site (FDS)
It was difficult to search location for FDS which meets the rquisite:
- not too close with housing complex
- not too close with water sources
- access road to FDS is not too steep



-47-
5.    Retribution Tariff
Tariff for retribution can not be revised too frequent (2-3 years) to avoid social
grievances.
6.    Medium Development Program (MDP-PJM)
MDP have to be revised every year to accommodate the rising development demand in
the region.
7.    Procurement preparation, planning and logistics become a very improtant administrative
component during the early stages of the project. An even higher priority would have
been advantageous.
8.    Lead time for procurement and construction contracts formalities require special
consideration in outlying provinces.
9.    The stardard of local contractors in most project towns was not good compared to
contractors in Java, but still acceptable and require more diligence on the part of
implementation outhorities supervisory staff. Non-compliance with technical
specifications was common, and a firm punitive approach needs to be applied from the
beginning of each contracts. Contractors management must assume a higher degree of
on-site responsibility.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
Financial performance for mine cities in Slawesi for the last five years is considered good for
some reasons.
- Average Growth rate of Local Revenue and Property Tax was higher than SAR Projection, as
example. For Bitung below:



-48-
............. .-..................... R p    m illion
c   X      aii1/9     92/3       939       94/9KS5Y    9s9    ,Grow*b-
Local
Revenue
SAR             594       69763                786        819       9%
RIAP            786       874        969       1635      2015       29%
ACTUAL          702       823        1215      1507      1606       24%
Property Tax
SAR             356       427:       573       615        738       20%
RIAP            399       441        512       632        686       15%
ACTUAL          399       441        622       1375      1372       43%
Please refer to table II-2 page 121
CHAPTER 3
This chapter assessed a broad picture of nine cities regarding the situation of Urban Facilities
before and after the SIJUDP Project.
Bitung is taken for example:
SOLID WASTE
Kodya Bitung
- _ore         ;         i e
-- -(1990)-              (196
District                                1                      4
Population                            35.000                104.600
Production                            90 m3                  270 m3
Transferred                           36 m3                  150 m3
%                           ~~~~~~~40%              56%
Truck                                 1 unit                 1 unit
Dump Truck                            1 unit                 liunit
Cart                                    10                   18 unit
Temporary Disposal Site (1 m3)          1                    4 unit
Transfer Depo                                                1 unit
Container                                                    16 unit
Trailer                                                      8 unit
Loader                         __       _     _              lunit



-49-
CHAPTER 4
This chapter assessed the difference of development program between PIA, Project
memorandum against DIP.
Bitung is taken for example:
No.  Sei~~t~w                 FUND ALOC E
....  -..,,,-'' ' -' :":''' .... W T .....  ..  ,     ., . .. .   ....... .. ...... -...
'                    -. '   ' .'    .. '',',.:."'' '"','.''' '.""" "': ': ~~~. . . . .. ..... .. .. . . . . .:
1   Water Supply            1.984,0            1.318,76          1.318,76
2   Drainage                1.882,0            7.968,76          9.987,53
3   Solid Waste              243,0             487,83              222,0
4   Sanitation               154,0              87,99              87,99
5   Urban Road              2.065,0           2.230.27            1.917,73
6   KIP                      758,0             965.78             492,75
7   MIIP                           V
8   O&M                     1.878,0            577,56               18,0
TOTAL                 8.964,0           13.636,95          12.044,76
Please refer to table IV-8 page 153-170
CHAPTER 5
Chapter 5 of this report deals with the economical analysis for urban roads and drainage
components. The "Economical Internal Rate of Return" of EIRR for packages amounting to or
more than Rp 400 million was applid for urban roads and drainage components and for water
supply componen the Financial Internal Rate of Return" of FIRR was applied.
According to the calculation, the average EIRR for Urban Roads and Drainage was below 1%,
but for Water Supply component of four PDAMs in Sulawesi FIRR was 9,31%.
Average FIRR for Water Supply component in Irian Jaya was 11,78%.
CHAPTER 6
Chapter 6 discribes the suggestion and recommendation for the implementation of SIJUDP
specially in Sulawesi.
(as submitted)



-50-
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
IRIAN JAYA WATER SUPPLY SUB PROJECT
LOAN 3340-IND
SUMMARY
Introduction
The Irian Jaya Water Supply Sub-project was unusual in that it extended over a period of thirteen
years from conception to completion. There was a two year break between the completion of
detailed design and the implementation loan becoming effective.
Although this report essentially covers the Irian Jaya Sub-project, mention is made of the
Sulawesi Urban Development Project to illustrate the complexities of the loan arrangements and
participants during the early stages.
The Project covered eight Kabupaten capital cities and towns throughout the province of Irian
Jaya, with a total appraisal estimated service coverage of 295,000 people. At the end of 1995
when the last reliable figures were available, 66% of this target has been achieved. However, it is
possible that the appraisal targets will be met at completion of the project or soon after. during
the 1996/97 fiscal year. This prediction is based on the fact that the majority of customer service
connections are scheduled for installation during 1996.
Project Design
Project objectives were not over ambitious and addressed the immediate and future augmentation
needs for all town supplies.
Generally, the design preparations were adequate in ensuring that project implementation
proceeded without any serious difficulties. The usual problems associated with projects of this
type in remote areas were to be expected. Apart from the need to provide additional drawings and
details to supplement small contracts, the project design was good.
Problems associated with the installation of equipment and erection of structures, were not so
much the result of design inadequacies as unfamiliarity with these particular items.
Project Appraisal
With regard to project, focus on the ultimate objectives remained unchanged, but
organizationally, the project became a sub-project of the Sulawesi Irian Jaya Urban
Development Project. In some respects, especially from the management point of view, this
division was an advantage as the project was not too large. it involved into a specialized water
supply project.
Project Implementation



-51-
A sound working relationship developed between World Bank and GOI implantation agencies in
both areas of the support and supervision. The timing and number of supervision missions was
satisfactory and specialist support inputs were valuable and appreciated.
Implementing agencies complaints with regard to procurements delays may have been to some
extent the result of inexperience in the World Bank procedures.
The standard of construction improved as the project advanced due to progressive upgrading of
the standard and intensity of site supervision, and the efforts of the specialists advice and
training.
Project Results
With the commissioning of the new project components in each town, physical benefits with the
potential to enhance financial and economic benefits became obvious. Key advantages were:
(i)   increased system capacities enabled PDAM's to proceed with the installation of the
consumer service connections resulting in increased income.
(ii)  improved reliability of supply supported by the dissemination of project information has
had an effect on consumer confidence.
(iii)  provision of increased water storage capacity in all towns has improved system reliability
and water quality.
(iv)  increased systems capacity have allowed the PDAMs to increase consumer coverage to
include housing estates and light industry.
Key Lessons Learned                                                                   - -
Were generally the results of the isolated nature of the project-
(i)   procurement preparations, planning and logistics became a very important administrative
component during the early stages of the project. An even higher priority would have been
advantageous.
(ii)  lead times for procurement and construction contracts formalities require special
consideration in outlying Provinces.
(iii)  the standard of local contractors in most project towns was not good compared
contractors in Java but still acceptable and required more diligence on the part of
implementation authorities supervisory staff. Non-compliance with technical specialization was
common, and a firm punitive approach needs to be applied from the beginning of each contract.
Contractors management most assume a higher degree of on-site responsibility



-52-
(iv)  the use of decentralized type of project management with on-site PMU and PIU units
proved to be successful. Minimal central control allowed the decision making process to be faster
and move effective.
(as submitted)



-53-
Appendix C: Map IBRD No.



I



IBRD 22798
'''z '         PAPUA NEW  GUINEA
0i7j-9-2-<9-2~~~ 2- -:                                          0     0 0  .g  
0~~jO 
i.;rEZ :U7                                       4: X         (!0,   ;f : 8  
zz            -      -  3                    (    -,0;   
;<ov -  i-- -   -                                                          Ct0o  
-; O.D-L jn   
L~J
1/                    ~ ~~~~~~~~~- 
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j
AI
6                                                  9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C.,    -
~~~~V ~~~~~~~~
K>   ~~~~~~~~   '.~~~~~~~..'JNAR.19



