Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/   I/2    /   ''                            4 ._ /t _ )
Report No.9155-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SULAWESI - IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 20, 1991
Asia Country Department V
Infrastructure Division
This document has a resudicted dbtribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiid dutes Its conteh may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of October 1990)
Currency unit   - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
- Rp 1,845
Rp 1 million    - $542
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia: April 1 - March 31
Provincial and Local Governments and Enterprises: April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
rRINCIPAL ABBREVI TIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AMDAL           - COI onvironmental assessment procesc
ANDAL           -  OI detailed environmental impact assessment study
APBD I/1I       * Annual provincial/local government development budget
APBN            - Annual central government development budget
BANGDA          - Directorate General for Regional Development, MHA
BAPPENAS        - National Development Planning Agency
BAPPEDA I/II   - Provincial/Local Development Planning Agency
BPAM            - Transitional  (pre-PDAM) water supply enterprise owned and
operated by DGCK, MPW
BPKP            - Central Audic Bureau
BPD             * Regional Development Bank
Bupati          - Kabupaten chief executive (district head)
CPMO/FO         - Central Project Management Office/Finance Office
DATI I/II       - Provincial/local level government
DGCK            - Directorate General Cipta Karya (Human Settlements), MPW
DGBM            - Directorate General Bina Marga (Roads and Bridges), MPW
DCM             - Directorate General Monetary Affairs, MOF
DGWRD           - Directorate General for Water Resource Development, MPW
DLA             - Domestic Lending Arrangement
DPRD I/II       - Provincial/Local People's Representate Councils
DPUK            - Kabupaten/Kotamadya department of public works
DPUP            - Provincial depaitment of public works
Dinas I/II      -  Provincial/local government departments
DIP/DIPDA       - Central/regional project budget
GOI             - Government of Indonesia
IDC               Interest during construction
IKK            - Kecamatin headquarter town
1MG            -  IUIDP IL.plementation Management Group, BAPPENAS
INPRES         - Presidental Instruction, including a class of GOI grants
IUIDP          -  Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program
Kabupaten       -  Local (Level II) district government
Kampung         - Urban neighborhood
KANWIL          - Provincial branch of central GOI department
KIP             - Kampung Improvement Program
Komisi Daerah  -  Provincial Commission for Environmental Management
Kotamadya       -  Local (Level II) city government (incorporated municipality)
Kotip           - Kota  administratip,  large  kabupaten  town  designated  as
kotamadya for administrative purposes only
Kecamatan       - Kabupaten or kotamadya administrative district
LIDAP          -  Local Institutional Development Action Program
MCK             - Communal lavatory and toilet facility
MIIP            - Market InfrastructurA Improvement Program
MHA             - Ministry of Home Affairs
MOF             - Ministry of Finance
MPW             - Ministry of Public Works
Murni           - Rupiah murni, or money from "pure" domestic sources
NGO             - Non-governmental organization
NUDS            - National Urban Development S.udy
O&M             - Operations and maintenance
PADS            - Pendapatan Asli Daerah (local Ljvernment taxes and charges)
PbB             - National land and bu,ldings tax
PDAM            -  Local government water enterprise
PIA             - Project Implementation Agreement
PIL             -  Preliminary environmental assessment
PIU             -  Project Implementation Unit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withouit World Bank authorization.



PMDU           -  Provincial Management and Development Unit for water
enterprises
PMO/FO         - Local Project Management Office/Finance Office
PMU            - Project Management Unit
PP             - Government regulation
PPSAB          - Water supply project implementation branch of DGCK, MPW
PUOD           - Directorate General for Public Administration and Regional
Autonomy, MHA
RAKORBANG I/II - Provincial/local annual budget coordination meeting
Repelita        - Five-year Development Plan
RIAP            - Revenue Improvement Action Program
RKL             - Environmental Management Plan
RPL             - Environmental Monitoring Plan
SDB            - Subsidi Daerah Bawahan (provincial development grant)
SDO            - Routine central GOI grant, primarily for salaries
SEKWILDA I/II  - Provincial/local government chief administrative officer
SK             - Surat Keputusan, decree of a senior official
TKPP            - Urban Development Coordination Team
TUA             - Directorate of Budget Administration, MOF
UNDP            - United Nations Development Program
USL             - Urban Sector Loan (2816-IND)
Walikota        - Kotamadya chief executive (mayor)



INDONESIA
SULAWESI. IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            The Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:       Nine  local  governments  of  Sulawesi  and  eight  water
enterprises in Irian Jaya
Amount:              $100 million equivalent
Terms                Repayable in 20 years including five years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate
Onlending terms:    Part of the proceeds of the loan,  equivalent  to $27.2
million, would be onlent by the Central Government to local
governments and their water enterprises in Sulawesi and
Irian Jaya for 20 years including five years of grace at
10.5 percent per annum interest. Interest and commitment
charges would be payable during the grace period.   The
Central Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Objectives
and Description:  The proposed project would (a) provide urban infra-structure
with emphasis on increased access of households to water
supply, solid waste management and sanitation services; (b)
support improved infrastructure expenditure programming and
financial planning, including the strengthening of local
government capacity to prepare and execute annual O&M
programs; (c) encourage local government and enterprise
revenue generation, improve financial management. In order
to achieve these objectives, the project would include (a)
investments in water supply, drainage, solid waste
management, sanitation and roads and improvement of kampung
(low-income urban neighborhood) and market infrastructure in
nine cities in Sulawesi; (b) water supply system
rehabilitation and investments in eight cities 'n Irian
Jaya; (c) project implementation rupport and engineering
services; (d) municipal management and water enterprise
institutional strengthening.
Benefits and Risks: Benefits would flow from more efficient use of resources in
the urban infrastructure sector through improved delivery of
services by increasingly capable local governments and their
enterprises.     The  water  supply,  drainage  and  road
investments would provide important economic and social
benefits while the solid and human waste management
components   would   substantially   improve   the   living
environment in the urban areas covered by the project.
Provision of public water taps and improvement of kampungs



- ii -
would help the urban poor. Because of the low aLsorptive
capacity of local governments in East Indonesia, the
institutional capacity building effort under the project has
to be limited. The chief risk is therefore that the project
will not achieve all institutional development objectives.
However, the priority given to implementation assistance and
O&M capacity building activities should ensure that the flow
of benefits frowu the implemer~-ed physical investments would
be sustained.
Estimated Cost:/a                            Local      Foreilnotal
-------- ($ million) ------
Urban Infrastructure                  73.2        47.1         120.3
Technical Assistance                  11.8         7.5          19.3
Total Base Costs                    85.0        54.6         139.6
Physical Contingencies                 6.e         5.2          12.0
Price Contingencies                    8.4         8.9          17.3
Total Project Cost                 100.2         8.7L        168.9
Interest during construction
(IDC)                                  2.2        17.1          19.3
Total Financing Required          102.4        85.8        188.2
tLa  Includes  taxes and duties estimated at $9.6 million equivalent,  land
acquisition at $4.8 million equivalent and current O&M in the non-water
supply sectors at $9.2 million equivalent.
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign        Total
-------- ($ million) ------
Local governments                     18.1         -            18.1
Water enterprises                      5.1         -             5.1
Provincial governments                10.4         -            10.4
Private contributions                  1.2         -             1.2
Central government                    33.4         -            33.4
Japanese grant                         0.4         0.3           0.7
IBRD                                  31.6        68.4         100.0
,Subtotal                          100.2        68.7        ,168.9
Local governments and water            2.2         4.7           6.9
enterprises (IDC)
Central Government (IDC)               -          12.4          12.4
Total Financing Recuired           102.4        85.8         188.



- iii -
,IBRD Fiscal Year
--------- ($ million) ---------
Egtijated Disbursements:             12    1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
Annual                       19.1   27.6   21.2   16.4   12.0    3.7
Cumulative                   19.1   46.7   67.9   84.3   96.3  100.0
Economic Rate of Return:   10 percent or more for water supply, roads and
drainage investments (f,7 percent of project costs)
HOibR:                     IBRD No. 22798



- iv -
INDONESIA
SULAWESI - IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Wae No.
I.  Ilj     URBAN   SECTOR   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .    .  .  .    .  .    .  .  1
A.  Sector Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            1
B.  Urban Development in Sulawesi and Irian Jaya . . . . . .           5
II.  JECTOR STRATEGY AND BANK EXPERIENCE  . . . . . . . . . . . .            6
A.  Government Strategy. . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .             7
B.    Bank  Experience  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7
C.    Bank   Strategy  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  13
III.  THE   PROJECT  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .    .  .  .    .  .    .  .  15
A.  Project Origin and Formulation . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
B.  Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
C.  Project Description  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    16
D.    Project   Costs  .    .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .    .  .   .  .  .  .    .  .  .    .  .  17
E.    Financing  Plan   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  20
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
A.  Responsibilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
B.  Project Implementation Agreements  . . . . . . . . . . .    25
C. Implementation Schedule .25
D. Procurement .26
E.  Disbursement   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  27
F.  Project Accounts and Audits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
G.  Project Reporting, Monitoring and Bank Supervision . . .    29
H.  Operations and Maintenance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS    ..30
A. Local Governments .30
B.  Water Enterprises  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
A.  Project Beneficiaries and Poverty Impact . . . . . . . .    34
B. Economic Analysis .35
C. Environmental Impact .36
D.   Risks  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  37
VII.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . .    37
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Indonesia during October/November 1990.   The miss:on consisted of L. Lovei
(economist/leader), H. Unger (municipal engineer), A. Velderman (sanitary
engineer) and W. Lane, D. Martin, E. V. Pol (consultants). The peer review team
comprised of Messrs. J. Kozel (municipal engineer), D. Butcher (anthropologist)
and R. V. Pulley (economist). The report was endorsed by L. Jeurling, Sector
Operations Division Chief and R. Cheetham, Country Director.



ANNEXES
1.   Detailed Project Cost Estimates  .                  .        . .         39
2.   Financing Plan Tables  . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .            41
3.   Summary of Technical Assistance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    44
4. Implementation ArrangementE    ..59
A.  Schedule    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  59
B.  Responsibilities and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . .    61
C.  Contracts and Procurement Method . . . . . . . . . . . . .    70
D.  Disbursement Arrangements and Schedule   . . . . . . . . .    78
E.  Key Implenentation and Performance Indicators and
Reporting Systems .85
F.  Supervision Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   86
C.  Operation and Maincenance  .....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    88
5.   Local Government/City Profiles .....  .             ......  .    .  .   .    93
6.   Technical Assessment .......  .    . ..........  .                     .    94
7.   Fconomic Analysis  ........                . ...........  .            .   108
8.   Water Enterprise Financial Tables  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   112
9.   Local Government Financial Tables  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   127
10.  Environmental Assessment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   136
11.  Key Documents in the Project File  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   174
MAP
IBRD No.: 22798 Project Cities



- 1 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDON4ESIA
SULAWESI - TRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE URBAN SECTOR
A. Sector Overview
1.1       Demographic Trends.  The urban population in Indonesia exceeds 50
millionl/ and is growing at a rate of over 5 percent per year, more than
double the overall national population growth rate. By the year 20CO, about
90 million or 43 percent of Indonesians will be city dwellers. Urban
employment has also grown at about 5 percent per year, much more rapidly than
the national rate and offering hope for absorption of surplus rural labor.
Indonesia's urban settlements include ten metropolitan and large cities of
more than 500,000, forty secondary cities of over 100,000 (provincial
headquarters and incorporated municipalities), two hundred small towns
(district headquarters) over 20,000 and about 3,200 service centers (sub-
district headquarters) with populations of 3,000 to 20,000. While changes in
urban boundaries and census definitions make inter-city comparisons difficult,
it appears that metropolitan cities over one million and secondary cities
between 100,000 and 500,000 have grown most rapidly since 1970. Service
centers under 20,000 have grown most slowly.2/
1.2       Institvtional Framework: National Administration.  The National
Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) is responsible for overall planning and
the allocation of resources, with focus on Five-Year Devel- ent Plans
(Repelita) and Annual National Development Budgets (APBN). The Ministry of
Home Affairs (MHA) is responsible for ove,sight of the regional governments,
primarily through its Directorate Gene,.al for Public Administration and
Regional Autonomy (PUOD) and Directorate General for Regional Development
(BANGDA). The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) is responsible for oversight of
most infrastructure. Within MPW, the Directorate General for Human Settlements
(Cipta Karya or DGCK) is responsible for oversight of city and regional
planning, water supply, urban drainage, sanitation and sewerage, solid waste
management, kampung neighborhood improvement (KIP) and market infrastructure
improvement (MIIP). Also within MPW, the Directorate General for Roads (Bina
Marga or DGBM) is responsible for oversight of urban roads and bridges and the
Directorate General for Water Resou:ce Development (DGWRD) is reeponsible for
1/   1990 Census, Biro Pusat Statistik.
2/   Cipta Karya, National Urban Development Strategy Final Report. September
1985, page 3, and Biro Pusat Statistik, Intercensal Population Survey
(SUPAS 85).



- 2 -
oversight of urban f,ood control and ulk water supply. The Ministry of
Finance (MOF) is responsible for central and local finance through its
Directorate General for Monetary Affairs (DGM), though the Directorate General
for Budget (DGA - Angaran) actually administers grant transfers; property tax
administration through its Directorate General for Taxation (DGP - Pajak); and
dnalysis of regional finance through its Agency for Financial Analysis (BAK -
Badan Analisa Keuangan). Other concerned central agencies include tne
National Land Agency, the Ministry of State for Administrative Reform,
Directorate General for Land Transport of the Ministrv of Communications, the
Ministry of State for Environment and Population, the Ministry of State for
Housing, the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Health.
All key rgencies are represented in the Interagency Coordinating Team for
Urban Development (Tim Koordinasi or TKPP) chaired by BAPPENAS.
1.3       Regional Administration.  .ndonesia has a highly centralized unitary
government in which all powers are held by the center that are not
specifically assigned to lower levels. Since 1974, however, the provincial
(Level I) and local (Level II) governments have been given increasing
responsibilities and delegated authority. in all there are 27 provinces and
301 local governments, including 54 kotamadyas (municipalities) and 247
A%abupatens (districts). Legislative powers at both provincial and local
levels are held by People's Representative Councils (Dewan Perwakilan Rakyat
Daerah or DPRD) consisting of mostly elected representatives.
1.4       The executive branches of prou"incial governments are headed by
governors who serve as representatives of the President and the overall
central government (GOI), and also as head of the semi-autonomous provincial
administrations.  Bupatis (kabupaten heads) and walikotas (kotamadya mayors)
have parallel roles in representing the governors and provincial governments,
and in heading their own local governments. Regional Development Planning
Agencies (BAP'EDA I and II) report directly to their respective governorL,
district heads or mayors, and have planning and resource allocation respon-
sibilities. Regional government services are provided by separate departmentc
(Dinas I and II) analogous to line ministries of the central government and
routine administration is provided by bureaus under the regional secretaries
(SEKWILDA T and II). Most central line agencies are represented at the
provincial level by their KA!NWIL (Kantor Wilayah or regional offices). KANWIL
of MPW are located in all provinces and their primary role in the urban sector
has been the execution of infrastructure projects financed from central
government sources. Their secondary role, the provision of technical guidance
and assistance to the concerned provincial and local Dinas I and II public
works denartments (DPUP and DPUK), is becoming increasingly impo,tant.
Government Regulation PP14 of 1987 significantly expanded urban infrastructure
respor,ibilities assigned to DPUPs and DPUKs, and provided guidelines for
clas .fication of public works infrastructure responsibilities for the
central, provincial and lccal levels. PP6 of June 1988 clarified relations
between regional offices (KANWILs) of MPW and provincial public works
departments (Dinas) under the authority of the provincial governors. MPW
announced its intention that the KANWILs responsibility for project
implementation would be confined to responsibilities that are purely national
(e.g., national roads) in accordance with the functional classification system
defined under PP14.



- 3 -
1.5       Sector Constraints and Priorities.  While average incomes in urban
areas have risen substantially over the past eight year", distribution of
income remains unequal and in 1987, over 20 percent of urban dwellers were
estimated 3/ still to be poor. The problems of income distribution are
exacerbated by deficiencies in basic services and degradation of environmental
condit.ons leading to poor health among the lod-inco.e population in
particular. Current estimates indicate that about 75 percent of the urban
population does not have direct access to piped water supply. Almost two
thirds of all urban households still rely on wells, and about 11 percent are
dependent on a system of water vendors. About 65 percent of low-income groups
share toilets and use of canals for sanitation purposes remains common. In
the larger cities, inadequate industrial water supply and liquid and solid
waste disposal is a serious proolem. In terms of GOI's service and equity
objectives, more low-cost, local or tertiary systems investment are needed in
existing under-served urban areas.
1.6       The Bank's 1984 Urban Services Sector Report (No. 4800-IND)
estimated that total expenditures by central and local government on urban
services inveitment4/, operation and maintenance (O&M) during Repelita IV
(1984-89) should be increased to 0.7? of GDP in order to reduce the backlog
and keep up with increased demand for urban services. For a brief period in
1987-89 expenditures were approaching this level aided by the Urban Sector
Lozn (2816-IND) and other donor financing and drawing down a pipeline of
projects prepared in the mid 1980s. However, by 1989 this pipeline had been
substarntially reduced and expenditures fell back to previous levels (0.4? of
GDP). This is substantially below the level required to address existing
deficiencies and deal with the growth in urban population and industry.
1.7       Sector Finan:es.  The finances of provincial and local governments
have long been dominated Dy central government transfers and characterized by
weak local resource mobilization, low per-capita budgets and very limited use
of credit for capital investment.  In 1983/84, cer,tral government
transfers 5/ financed over three quarters of aggregate recurrent
expenditures and almost 80 percent of capital investments. By 1986/87,
central government budgetary constraints caused by fallitrg oil revenues led to
a severe curtailment of local investment programs which were reduced from
almost half of local budgets in 1983/84 to less than one qu&rter in 1986/87.
The high level of growth (18.5 percent ner year) in loca'lly generated reienues
failed to significantly close the gap. Borrowings, at about 4 percent of
3/   Central Bureau of Statistics as reviewed in the Bank's Poverty Report
(Report No. 8034-IND).
4/   Water supply, roads, draine, human and solid waste management.
5/   Including SDO central routine grants and INPRES central development
grants, but not including APBN DIPs (central GOI budget grants-in-kind).
Some of these grants are formula based, some are ad hoe. Tbere are
grants which can be used for several kinds of expenditures and grants
which have a more restricted use.



- 4 -
total local receipts, continue to be an insignificant feature of the financing
system for most local services.
1.8       The dominant role of grants in the system of financing local
government services is the result of very limited local taxing authority. For
example, the potentially most promising local revenue source, the property
tax, has an effective rate of 0.1 percent set by the central government.
Since the central governmenL is reluctant to delegate substantial taxing
authority to local governments, grants are a way to resolve the conflict
between local governments' taxing authority and expenditure responsibility.
1.9       Inter-goverDnent transfers are not the only contribution from the
central government to the urban infrastructure sector. As it was mentioned in
paragraph 1.4 above, the regional offices of central government agencies
execute a large number of infrastructure projects financed from the national
budget (APBN DIP). While the classification of urban infrastructure
responsibilities is still an ongoing exercise, it is clear that several of
these projects create infrastructure which, according to PP14, is local
responsibility. These central government grants-in-kind contributions are
justified on the basis of weak institutional capabilities and lack of
financial resources at the local government level. In the past, however,
these projects frequently led to operation and maintenance responsibilities
which the local governments were not able to fulfill or, since the
infrastructure created was of low priority for them, did not want to fulfill.
1.10      Sector coordination and local participation.  Due to the steeply
hierarchical decision systems, coordination of the urban sector has been poor,
and locpl participation in the decision processes has been limited.   The
sheer size and diversity of the country, the rapid pace of urbanization, the
number of concerned agencies, the lack of effective management information
systems and, perhaps most importantly, cultural constraints upon horizontal
communication within and among agencies, have led to a fragmented approach to
urban development. As national attention to urban problems increases, so too
is the real potential for further fragmentation and inefficiency.
Improvements must begin at the local government and community level, where
effective coordination is much easier to sustain than in the large central
government.
1.11      Urban infrastructure issues.  Major issues faced in the sector by
cities of medium size are: (a) large infrastructure deficiencies and O&M
backlogs; (b) lack of coordination in planning, in particular of
transportation and land use; (c) weak financial management as evidenced by
deficient accounting practices and tle lack of adequate cost recovery, revenue
generation, use of credit and consideration of private sector options;
(d) weak management of water enterprises and municipal improvement programs
including drainage, solid waste disposal, and kampung micro-infrastructure;
(e) inefficient compression of the design and construction cycles into single
fiscal years; (f) poor information systems, and (g) complex and changing
relationships among local, provincial and central agencies with rospect to
assignment of responsibilities for project and program preparation, appraisal,
financing, implementation and O&M; (h) lack of trained and experienced
managerial and technical personnel at all levels. While the scales of these



problems are smaller in the cities targeted in the proposed project than in
the large metropolitan cities such as Jakarta and Surabaya, so too are the
resources available for their solution.
B. Urban Development in Sulawesi and Irian Jaya
1.12      Sulawesi has an urban population of about 2.5 million, almost half
of them living in the two largest cities, Ujung Pandang and Manado, at
opposite ends of the island. The total population of the island is about 12.5
million, growing at an annual rate of about 2 percent. The share of the urban
population (20 percent) is lower than the nationwide average, which suggests
that the island is somewhat less urbanized than the rest of the country.
However, on the basis of the 1987 national socioeconomic survey, the incidence
of urban poverty was substantially higher in Sulawesi than the nationwide
average. According to the government's regional development plan, Ujung
Pandang (a city of 800,000) is the designated socio-economic center of East
Indonesia.
1.13      Irian Jaya is best described as an extensive area of underdeveloped
hinterland populated by a large number of subsistence communities, poorly
linked to coastal urban areas. The urban areas are the centers of public
services and also increasingly important centers of trade, transportation and
secondary industries. In many cases, these cities are characterized by the
nature of their primary hinterland resource base (oil, mining, fisheries,
logging). Irian Jaya has an urban population of about 350,000 people out of a
total population of 1.6 million. Seventy five percent of the urban population
are transmigrants or are born to parents who migrated from other provinces and
are considered to be non-Irianese. The urban incidence of poverty, although
increasing, was still lower than the nationwide average in 1987. Fast
population growth in the cities is primarily due to migration from other
provinces, but rural Irianese have also been moving into the urban areas.
Many of the newcomers settle down in low income areas where high population
density puts increasing pressure on infrastructure services.
1.14      The key issues in the urban sector in Sulawesi and Irian Jaya are
reflections of national problems. High growth in urban population resulted in
rubstantial backlogs in the provision of urban infrastructure services. The
weak urban planning and programming capabilities of local governments are
making it difficult to achieve improved effectiveness of investments,
elimination of imbalances in the urban expenditure patterns and adequate
maintenance of existing city infrastructure. While the provincial
governments, due to the generally small size and dispersed location of urban
centers in the two islands, are the natural intermediaries for the preparation
and implementation of both centrally and foreign aid financed operations,
provincial intermediation capabilities are almost non-existent. Water
enterprises, with the exception of che ones in the large cities, depend on
capital subsidies frcm the central government. The poor cost recovery
performance is a reflection of low quality of service provided (usually
intermittent supply) and low efficiency of operations. More generally, the
level of local resource mobilization in Sulawesi and Irian Jaya (on a per
capita basis including both local taxes and user charges) is substantially
below the nationwide average.



- 6 -
II. SECTOR STRATEGY AND BANK EXPERIENCE
A. Government Strategy
2.1       Faced with large deficiencies in urban infrastructure services and
fast growing urban populations, GOI's strategy emphasizes physical
infrastructure provision targets. These targets, describing the capacity of
water supply systems to be constructed, length of roads to be built,
percentage of population to be supplied with safe water, sanitation services,
etc., usually have a prominent place in the medium-term national development
plans. For example, in connection with the UN Drinking Water and Sanitation
Decade, GOI set the target of providing safe water supply to 75 percent of the
urban and 60 percent of the rural population by 1990 and asked for the help of
mnulti- and bilateral donor agencies. The latest estimates indicate that 36
percent of the rural and 46 percent of the urban population had access to
clean water in 1988, compared to 26 percent and 38 percent, respectively, in
1980.6/ Even though targets were not achieved, this is still an impressive
performance in view of the almost 40 percent increase in the urban population
in that period. The main constraint has not been the availability of funds
but the capacity to prepare and implement projects. The government's response
to that has been (a) to develop standardized, mass delivery programs planned
and executed by the central government (but with operation and maintenance
responsibility at the local level) in order to reduce service deficiencies in
the short-run, and (b) to build-up implementation capacity through local
government institutional strenghtening, reinforced through decentralization,
as an important element of GOI's strategy in the long-run.
2.2       GOI has taken important strides toward establishing a basis for
improved sectoral management at the national level. BAPPENAS has been
designated to lead a high-level inter-agency team (Tim Koordinasi - TKPP)
representing the concerned agencies and charged with responsibility for
overall urban sector policy development and coordination. The policy
priorities for urban development in Indonesia were articulated in the 1984
Urban Services Report (4800-IND) and the 1987 Public Resource Management
Report (7007-IND), in patticular on O&M and local government finance. To
address these priorities, the government issued a Statement of Policies for
Urban Development in 1987 which represented a consolidated view of development
in the sector. This Policy Statement, which is incorporated in Repelita V ani
was supported by the Urban Sector Loan (2816-IND), includes: (a) strengthening
local governments to assume the leading role in developing, operating and
maintaining local services on a sustainable basis over the long-term; (b)
improving the planning and programming of urban infrastructure investments;
(c) mobilizing local revenues and optimizing their use; (d) implementing a
coordinated financing system for the development and administration of local
services; and (e) strengthening the consultative process at various lev3ls of
government, with emphasis on upgrading participation of local municipalities
and districts. These objectives are now being fine-tuned to emphasize the
6/   See Indonesia Urban Services Sector Report, No. 4800-IND and Indonesia
Poverty Assessment and Strategy Report, No. 8034-IND.



- 7 -
following priorities for the near-to-mid term: (a) expansion of the scope of
the Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Programming (IUIDP) process to
selectively include additional subsectors which play a critical role in the
economic role of major towns and cities, in particular; (b) strengthening of
local government institutional development and training; (c) improved
infrastructure O&M; (d) improved cost recovery and implementation of a more
fully integrated system for the financing of urban services; and (e) increased
attention to urban land and environmental management.
2.3       Poverty reduction and regional balance in development are prominent
objectives of the current national medium term development plan (Repelita V).
High levels of poverty exist in East Indonesia (especially in South-East
Sulawesi, Maluku, NusL Tenggara and Irian Jaya) and the strong emphasis given
in Repelita V to infrastructure development in the outer islands is a natural
consequence of GOI's recognition of the problem. Overall GOI strategy for
regional development is still evolving but specific investment programs
targeted to backward areas and increase in general resource availability in
such areas through the INPRES grant transfer system are the key building
blocks.
2.4       Also under Repelita V, GOI has targeted the expansion of borrowing
by local water enterprises as a special priority. Recognizing the need for
operational guidelines to induce a higher level of credit financing, GOI is
planning to adopt less conservative financial criteria for borrowing by local
governments and their enterprises (debt service coverage ratio of not less
than 1.5 for local government general fund operations and not less than 1.3
for local enterprises such as water supply PDAMs). This would bring the legal
borrowing capacity for local governments, particularly the large cities, more
in line with their considerably unused paying capacity.
2.5       The government's strategy is to move interest rates towards market
rates over the medium to long term. Given the substantial grant element in
the financing system for local services in Indonesia, the question of interest
rate must be viewed in the context of overall sector finances. Many local
governments have little or no experience with loan financing, having preferred
instead to rely on central government transfers in spite of the very low (two
to four percent) or, in some cases zero, interest rate on domestic loans for
the vast majority of governments. Only the nation's largest cities have
significant experience with interest rates in the range of nine-twelve
percent. There is a widespread concern in GOI that, unless the interest rate
applied is low, it will not be possible to induce local governments and their
enterprises to adopt a more active borrowing posture, within prudent limits.
B. Bank Experience
2.6       Worldwide experience in water supply.7/  The Bank has been
involved in this sector since the 1960s. There has been relatively little
7/   Based on OED "Annual Review of Evaluation Results' in 1987, 1988, 1989
(Report Nos. 7404, 8164, 8970) and several project audit reports.



evolution in the Bank's approach. The scale of projects became larger and
many involved assistance to a number of smaller entities under one operation.
Some operations relied on intermediaries to exercise control over
implementation and to provide assistance to the beneficiary entities. Many
operations aimed at the consolidation of water entities. While the majority
of projects provided substantial economic and health benefits, experience
shows. that (a) the achievement of institutional and cost recovery objectives
has been slow and difficult; (b) there are persistently high levels of
unaccounted-for-water; (c) there are delays in project implementation due to
inadequate project preparation, slow land acquisition, cumbersome procurement
procedures; (d) inadequate attention is paid to the disposal of wastewater in
densely populated areas.
2.7       Worldwide experience in the urbar. sector.8/  Bank involvement in
the urban sector started in tha early 1970s with low cost investment projects
in shelter, water supply, sanitation and urban transport aimed at alleviating
urban poverty. Sites-and-services and slum upgrading projects were intended
to demonstrate replicable approaches that could provide benefits to the poor
while recovering costs and reducing the financial burden on the public sector.
Many of these projects have been reasonably successful in meeting physical
objectives, but they have not had an impact on the policies of national and
local governments and on the issues of managing the urban economy. The policy
dialogue between the Bank and governments focussed on physical aspects and
some institutional issues but there was insufficient attention to the broader
policy framework such as intergovernmental fiscal relations. More
importantly, because many urban programs did not achieve sustainable policy
reform and institutional development, the projects were generally not
replicable. In only a few cases, such as the Kampung Improvement Program in
Jakarta, have citywide impacts been achieved. Like water supply, urban
operations also experienced substantial implementation delays due to
insufficient project preparation and very ambitious implementation timetables.
Government efforts have not mobilized the private sector and community
initiative, but in many cases have increased the cost of private solutions
through overregulation and rationing of scarce capital for investment.
2.8       By the mid-1980s the experiences of donor-assisted projects had led
to shifts in external approaches to the urban sector. The central premise of
these shifts was the recognition that governments were unable to provide the
shelter, infrastructure, and services needed by rapidly growing urban
populations. Instead, a more realistic assessment of the capacities of the
public sector had led to the conclusion that greater efforts had to be devoted
to (i) improving the management of urban institutions and intergovernmental
fiscal relations; (ii) improving local resource mobilization; (iii)
strengthening the management of urban infrastructure, particularly with regard
to maintenance; (iv) establishing regulatory frameworks that were enabling,
rather than constraining; and (v) strengthening financial services for urban
8/   Based on OED reports mentioned above, on draft PRE Report "Urban Policy
and Economic Development: an Agenda for the 1990s", dated November 30,
1990 and also on PRE Report "FY89 Sector Review Urban Development
Operations", Report No. INU-OR3.



- 9 -
development, and, where feasible, (vi) reducing the public role in urban
service delivery.
2.9       Recent initiatives by governments and donors in these areas reflect
a growing appreciation of the importance of policies, institutions, and
regulations in formulating effective strategies to manage urban growth. By
assuming that government--first central and now local--could provide the
investment needed to serve the majority of the urban population, both
governments and donors have given little attention to the important role of
private households, communities, and firms in providing for their own needs.
A new policy framework is needed that truly enables nonpublic actors and is
realistic in appreciating the relative roles and importance of the public and
private sectors. The policy framework must also link the management and
productivity of the urban economy to the broader objectives of economic growth
and development policy.
2.10      Experience in Indonesia.  Generally, Bank experience confirms that
(a) the combination of limited planning and implementation capacity at the
central level and the difficulties inherent in providing essentially local
services by central government departments decreases the efficiency of mass
delivery programs; (b) capacity building at the local level is a long-run
process that needs to be accompanied by an increase in local responsibility
and accountability; and to develop such responsibility and accountability (c)
central-local financial relations need to develop in the direction of more
local government autonomy. As summarized in Table 1 elow, the Bank has
financed eight completed and eight ongoing urban and water supply projects in
Indonesia since 1974, touching more than fifty local governments and many of
their water enterprises. Urban lending operations in Indonesia have
progressed from demonstration projects in Jakarta through more programmatic
investments in selected other large cities, still limited in geographic and
subsectoral scepe, to sector lending within an agreed policy and institutional
framework. Water supply projects initially covered only a few cities, but
later, like Bank projects in other countries, assisted a large number of urban
settlements under one operation.



- 10 -
Table 1. URBAN AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECTS IN INDONESIA
Loan      Fiscal Year            Project Name            Original        PPAR/PCR
No.    Effective  Closed                                    Loan    Rep. No.  Year
1040     1975      1981    Jakarta Urban Development         25.00    4620    1983
1049     1975      1982    Five Cities Water Supply          14.50    6256    1986
1336     1977      1984    Second Urban Development          52.50    6329    1986
1653     1979      1987    Third Urban Development           54.00    8583    1990
1709     1981      1987    Second Water Supply               36.00    8622    1990
1972     1982      1988    Fourth Urban Development          43.00    8583    1990
2236     1983      1991    Jakarta Sewerage/Sanitation    22.40
2275     1983      1990    East Java Water Supply            30.60
2408     1984              Fifth Urban Development           39.25
2632     1986              Second E. Java Water Supply    43.30
2725     1986              Housing Sector Loan              200.00
2816     1987              Urban Sector Loan               270.00
2817     1987              Reg. Citieq Urban Transport    51.00
2932     1988              Jabotabek Urban Development   150.00
3219     1990              Se-ond Jabotabek Urban Dev.   190.00
3246     1991              Third Jabotabek Urban Dev.        61.00
3304     1991              East Java - Bali Urban Dev.   180.30*
1,462.85
* not yet effective as of April 30, 1991.
2.11      Multi-subsector urban development projects, Urban I-V (Loans 1040,
1336, 1653,  .972 and 2408-IND), provided substantial assistance for
deconcentrated programs of low-cost micro-infrastructure (KIP), city-wide
drainage and solid waste management in eleven major cities. They also
assisted development of GOI's low-income housing program, now supported under
the Housing Sector Loan (2725-IND), and several important institutional
initiatives, including local government finance, planning and programming,
O&M, and land information. Separate sub-sectoral programs in water supply,
sewerage and urban transport have been supported by seven loans to date. The
first two such loans (1049 and 1709-IND) helped in the development of water
sector organization and financing policies. Under subsequent projects in East
Java (Loans 2275 and 2632-IND) water sector development was emphasized and
deconcentration of implementation capacity was introduced to increase the
program scale and pace. Loan 2236-IND (Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation) has
sought to implement pilot human waste disposal projects and strengthen waste
disposal institutions in Jakarta. Two recent loans (2817 and 2932-IND) focus
on urban transport sector development in Indonesia's five largest cities,
emphasizing least-cost traffic and public transport solutions and local
institutional development. The combined experience of these projects is
reflected in the Urban Sector Loan (2816-IND) and also in the Second and Third
JABOTABEK Urban Development Projects which focus, respectively, on water
resources and kampung improvement in the Jakarta metropolitan area.



- 11 -
2.12      Completed ProJects.  Of the eight loans closed to date, four have
been evaluated by the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department. Urban III and
IV were combined in one project completion report. The issues and lessons
from these reports are discussed below.
2.13      Water supply.  While about one million people received improved
water supply due to the two projects, the project performance audit reports
(No. 6256 and 8622) emphasized the following problems: (a) substantial delays
in project implementation were caused by inadequate preparation, especially by
the late preparation of detailed designs (after the loans became effective);
(b) over-optimistic water demand and unaccounted-for-water projections and
underestimated production costs led to the inability of the water enterprises
to fulfill (too ambitious) financial covenants and difficulties in servicing
debt; (c) inadequate attention was given to institutional development and
management of technical assistance. For the proposed project, detailed
designs have been prepared in advance, the availability of alternative water
sources and the forecast levels of water tariffs have been taken into account
in water demand projections. Also, technical assistance will be managed on a
regional basis, close to the sites where the project is implemented.
2.14      Urban projects.  According to the project performance audit reports
(No. 4620 and 6329), the civil works included in the first two urban projects
were completed according to appraisal schedules. However, considerable delays
were experienced in the selection and appointment of consultants, therefore
the loan closing dates had to be extended by three years to complete the
technical assistance components (for institutional development on the national
level and preparation of subsequent projects). Water supply components under
the kampung improvement programs experienced the same problem as the free
standing water supply projects, that is, the water demand projections were
over-optimistic and willingness to pay for the piped water was less than
expected where alternative groundwater sources existed. The need fcr formal
.naintenance arrangements was noted and it was proposed that the maintenace
issue should be addressed more carefully in future projects. The proposed
project includes both maintenance expenditures and institution capacity
building for O&M.
2.15      The combined Project Completion Report (PCR) for the most recenitly
completed urban projects (Urban III, 1653-IND; and Urban IV, 1972-IND)
highlighted the following issues and priorities of urban development in
Indonesia: (a) successful project implementation requires local participation
and visible leadership by the chief executive (bupati or mayor) of the local
government; (b) operations and maintenance budgets and institutional
capacities are inadequate at all levels; (c) coordinated planning and
programming of urban infrastructure is essential; (d) improved local resource
mobilization is necessary for sustaining urban development programs; and
(e) decentralization of urban development program implementation requires
strengthened municipal management, technical staff capacities and operational
systems. Some of the functional requirements and policy reform options to
address these issues are now being explored under the ongoing Urban V project
(Loan 2408-IND) and the USL (Toan 2816-IND) on a national basis (see below).
The need for coordinated infrastructure planning was the key to the



- 12 -
development of the IUIDP concept, which will be implemented under the
currently approved East Java - Bali Urban Development Project (Loan 3304-IND).
2.16      Beneficiary households and communities are involved routinely in the
identification, preparation and implementation of KIP neighborhood improvement
programs that have been supported under Bank loans for more than ten years.
Market neighborinood improvement (MIIP) programs have a similar participatory
base. C)I's successful solid waste management and sanitation programs also
rely on participation of beneficiary households and communities, and have
received increasing support under the Urban III, IV and V projects. On-site
sanitation schemes introduced under the Urban V project, for example,
emphasize household financing and the use of NGOs for community management of
implementation. Water supply investments supported by the Bank now require
assessment of cost recovery potential from the beneficiary households; road
investments must be based upon specific road-user needs; drainage investments
emphasize needs expressed by communities subject to flooding. Most
importantly, the overall infrastructure planning (IUIDP) process supported by
GOI and the Bank is designed to upgrade the effective role of local
participation: (a) to start planning and decision processes at a level low
enough in government so that beneficiaries can participate directly; (b) to
start early enough in the budget process so that adequate attention can be
provided ta subproject design in meeting beneficiary needs; (c) to place
increased emphasis on local responsibility for O&M, and (d) to take advantage
of local human resource and institutional capacities through the entire
project cycle.
2.17      The Sector Loan.  The recent Urban Sector Loan (2816-IND) was an
attempt to put institutions and policies in place to carry out the urban
program more effectively in a decentralized fashion. Steady progress has been
made in introducing a number of administrative improvements including local
resource mobilization, infrastructure O&M, etc. and a more structured approach
to further institutional and human resource development is now also being
developed. However, changes in key policy makers have eroded the consensus
within the government over the urgency of a number of structural reforms
including grant reform and introduction of a local government loan fund. In
retrospect, it is clear that the Government was unprepared for these reforms
within the timeframe of the Urban Sector Loan; central government executed
and grant financed projects will continue to play a role in providing urgently
needed urban services even as the long-term reform program to strengthen
management capability and financial autonomy at the local government level is
being put in place. Performance of the Urban Sector Loan in supporting
priority expenditures and increasing disbursements in the sector has been
satisfactory. Provision of counterpart financing through the Urban Sector
Loan enabled Indonesia to expand sector expenditures in keeping with (if not
yet achieving) the recommendations of the Bank's Urban Services Sector Report.
2.18      Sulawesi.  The Bank's direct project experience in the urban sector
in Sulawesi was limited to two cities, Pare Pare and Ujung Pandang. The
Second Water Supply Project financed piped water supply system development in
Pare Pare with a total cost of US$3.5 million. Implementation of the Pare
Pare sub-project suffered a two year delay and neither the technical targets



- 13 -
(provision of safe water, lower unaccounted-for-water), nor the financial
targets (rate of return on assets, accounts receivable) were met. The Urban
III project financed kampung improvement in Ujung Pandang with a total cost of
US$7 million. This sub-project also suffered a two year implementation delay
but otherwise was considered quite successful with an estimated ERR of 41Z.
The Urban V project financed kampung improvement, solid waste management and
drainage improvement in Ujung Pandang. The total estimated cost of the Ujung
Pandang program was US$12 million at appraisal. According to recent
estimates, Ujung Pandang will complete its program in the final project year
without serious difficulty and achieve all physical targets. Modest
institutional improvement targets were also achieved, but the city revenue
forecasts proved to be too optimistic.
2.19      Irian Jaya.  The Bank has no direct project experience in Irian
Jaya. Several nationwide sector operations (Third Agriculture Extension,
Forestry Institutions and Conservation, Urban Sector Loan, Highway Sector
Loan) financed expenditures in the island, but that coverage was very broad
and perfunctory. In addition, the Transmigration V project (Loan 2578-IND)
financed transmigration settlement planning studies directed at the southern
part of the island, however, the Bank was not involved in the implementation
of the studies.
C. Bank Strategy
2.20      The Bank strategy mirrors the government strategy with emphasis on
(a) improving service levels in a regionally balanced fashion and particularly
for the poor; (b) improving urban productivity and the effectiveness of
investments through better infrastructure planning and programming, especially
at the city level and through enhanced local government capacity for fiscal
management, revenue mobilization, project implementation and O&M; (c)
improving the urban environment by enhancing local government capacity to
plan, implement and operate infrastructure in an environmeintally sound fashion
and also by enhancing community participation. Recognizing the limitations of
central planning and administration of local services, the Bank gcnirally
supports the decentralized approach implied by GOI's long-term development
objectives for the sector. Bank-wide experience suggests that
decentralization combined with strong efforts to increase local government
capacity offers the best prospects for dealing with urban management
constraints including project preparation, implementation and O&M and for
improving the efficiency of resource allocation.
2.21      Improving service levels.  The Bank agrees with GOI that increased
access to infrastructure services, especially for the poor, is an important
objective. However, there is no simple solution to the problem of
institutional capacity constraints and attempts to mass deliver standardized
systems are fraught with problems. Inflexibility in design leads to solutions
ill adapted to local circumstances, low willingness to pay by the consumers
and lack of funds and institutional capability for maintenance. This is a
very high price to pay and may hinder the achievement of another equally
important objective, the maximum contribution from urban infrastructure to the
economic development of the cities. Therefore, while the Bank strategy
supports targeted interventions to increase access for the poor (e.g.,



- 14 -
subsidized water standpipe and kampung improvement programs), it also
emphasizes the importance of long-term programs to enhance the capacity of
local governments and comm%itniies to implement infrastructure projects and
maintain the assets created. Provision of financial and managerial incentives
through a properly designed planning and regulatory framework for the local
governments and the prvate sector is another equally important aspect of the
strategy.
2.22      Improving urban management capacity.  The Bank's strategy
increasingly emphasizes city-wide management, particularly in the large cities
to improve coordination, accounting, tax and land administration,
environmental management, private sector participation, project preparation,
implementation and O&M and ultimately urban productivity. Based on experience
gained under the six completed and eight ongoing urban projects, the Bank
strategy recognizes that implementation of GOI's strategy as operationalized
through IUIDP (para 2.2) depends on the institutional capacity of individual
local governments and local water enterprises. In parts of the country where
institutional constraints are less pronounced it is possible to establish
provincial intermediation capacities, programmatic Bank lending and high
levels of cost recovery. In other less developed parts of the country such as
East Indonesia, where local capacity is less developed, regular project
lending is more appropriate and cost recovery is more difficult. The Bank
strategy recognizes that regionally balanced development is a legitimate
concern of GOI and development of urban areas in the Eastern part of the
country is necessary to achieve that. The Second Water Supply, Urban III and
Urban V projects demonstrated that well prepared, traditional project type
interventions restricted to a few urban areas could help GOI improve delivery
of urban infrastructure services. The rationale for the proposed project is
based on this experience.
2.23      Improving the planning and regulatory framework.  The Bank's
strategy also promotes the establishment of an enabling regulatory and
planning framework for urban land management. A large technical assistance
program funded under a series of Bank loans has assisted the Government in
improving its mapping, land registration, tax administration and land
management in general. A national commission for land has now been
established and a key focus of the Bank's strategy will be to support the
Government, under coordinated arrangements between urban and housing sector
operations, in order to simplify its zoning and other regulations to
facilitate more efficient urban land use and, thereby, manage urban growth
more effectively.
2.24      Financing of urban development.  Based on the Bank's experience that
local services are most effectively provided when responsibility and
accountability lies with competent local governments, Bank strategy aims at
increasing the importance of local government resources in financing urban
infrastructure services. Therefore, the Bank supports measures that increase
local revenues, especially the reform of the system of local government taxes
and charges, and increase prudent borrowing by local governments. The system
of a multitude of local government taxec with very limited revenue base and
yield should be overhauled. Also, local governments should be encouraged to
establish pricing policies on an increasingly cost recoverable basis, thereby



- 15 -
enabling available grants to be targeted to the neediest regions with less
potential for local resource mobilization, thus supporting the Government's
regional equity objectives. If GOI's Repelita V strategy of increasing the
relative importance of credit in the sector succeeds, it will help encourage
mote efficient allocation of resources within the sector. However, an
interest rate which is well below market rates (currently 18 - 20 percent
annually) maintains a degree of interest rate segmentation which could inhibit
the ability of the sector to mobilize loan funds from domestic savings in the
long-run. The Bank therefore supports a program geared to measured progress
towards market-related rates of lending to local governments and enterprises.
2.25      The Bank also recognizes that infrastructure deficiencies are large
and the financial capability of local governments is limited, so central
government grants will continue to be an important source of financing for
urban infrastructure. In order to avoid inefficiencies experienced in the
past, improvement of the grant system is desirable by making it less
fragmented and more equalizing, predictable and discretionary for the
recipient local governments.  The superior financial resources of the central
government coupled with superior implementation capacity naturally led to the
important role played by the grants-in-kind support. For the medium term, in
view of the pressing urban infrastructure needs, there is no real alternative
to that solution. However, it is important to avoid the problems experienced
in the past by ensuring that (a) only those projects are implemented, which
have a high priority for both the central and local governments and (b) the
financial and institutional resources to operate and maintain the
infrastructure created are available at the local government level.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation
3.1       Preparation of the Irian Jaya water supply component started in
December 1983 financed partly by the Government of Australia and partly under
Loan 2275-IND. Preparation of the Sulawesi urban component started in April
1986 with funds from Loans 1653-IND and 1972-IND. The two preparation efforts
were merged by GOI in June 1987, with agreement from the Bank. Further
preparation work was funded from Loan 2932-IND and the proceeds of Project
Preparation Facility 142, requested by GOI and approved by the Bank in
September 1989.
3.2       In Irian Jaya, the project was prepared to cover kabupaten capitaa.
cities only, while in Sulawesi the project was intended to cover all utrban
areaq and was prepared as a programmatic operation. However, difficulties
were encountered during preparation in Sulawesi which led to substantial
delays. It became apparent that the scope should be reduced and the
preparation should concentrate only on a selected number of cities in Sulawesi
in order to use available resources effectively. Accordingly, the scope of
the project was reduced to cover nine cities in Sulawesi in June 1989. TX.ose
larger cities were selected, where the preparation reached an advanced stage.
It became also clear that Sulawesi provincial and local gi. ernments were not
ready for a programmatic operation, i.e., the capability of local governments
t
i



- 16 -
to prepare second and third "batch* investments and provincial governments to
appraise those investments was not satisfactory. Therefore a decision was
made to redirect the preparation effort towards a one "batch" traditional
project-type intervention. The list of the project cities can be found in
Annex 5.
3.3       Despite these reductions concerning Lh;e scope, the proposed project
is still quite large. The size also reflects GOI's intention to provide urban
services to as many people as possible during the current five year planning
period. In terms of previous water and urban operations in Indonesia (see
Table 1 above), the proposed project is equivalent to the combination of three
projects: a water supply project covering fourteen water enterprises ir Irian
Jaya and Sulavesi (similar to East Java Water Supply - Loan No. 2275), an
urban roads project in nine cities in Sulawesi (similar to Regional Cities
Urban Transport - Loan No. 2817) and an urban drainage, solid waste, kampung
improvement project also in nine cities in Sulawesi (similar to Urban V - Loan
No. 2408). Given the experience gained by government agencies under previous
projects and the advanced and detailed implementation arrangements (para. 3.4
and Chapter IV), the project agencies should be able to implement the project
as designed. As for the Bank, while there are economies of scale in
processing these components together, the size of the project will undoubtedly
lead to a higher than average supervision workload (see para. 4.21 below).
3.4       By appraisal all feasibility studies and preliminary design work
have been completed. For water supply subprojects, detailed designs had been
prepared two years ago and have to be updated. Detailed design and tender
documents for first year implementation are under preparation and will be
ready by loan effectiveness. Contract packaging for all procurement has been
carried out and outline TORs for all technical assistance are available.
B. Project Objectives
3.5       Project objectives are (a) to provide urban infrastructure in
selected cities in Sulawesi and Irian Jaya with emphasis on increased access
of households to water supply and sanitation services; (b) support improved
infrastructure programming and financial planning in these cities, especially
support the development of local government capacity to prepare and execute
annual O&M programs and (c) encourage local government and enterprise revenue
generation and improve financial management.
C. Project Description
3.6       There would be three principal components:
(a)  Infrastructure develoPment, rehabilita.ion and O&M in Sulawesi.
This component represents Rp. 217.9 billion ($118.2 million
equivalent) or 70.0 percent of total project costs, providing civil
works and equipment for water supply, urban roads, kampung improve-
ment, market infrastructure improvement, solid waste management,
drainage and sanitation in nine cities in Sulawesi. Non-water
supply O&M expenditures of Rp 35.9 billion ($19.5 million
equivalent) and in-house design and construction supervision



- 17 -
overheads of Rp. 4.9 billion ($2.7 million equivalent) are also
included in the component (but would not be financed by the Loan).
(b)  Water supply system rehabilitation and development in Irian Jaya.
This component r presents Rp. 51.7 billion ($28.0 million
equivalent) or :6.6 percetit of total project costs, pro-iding civil
works and equipment for the rehabilitation and expansion of eight
piped water supply systems in the kabupaten capital cities of Irian
Jaya.
ic)  Technical Assistance.  This component represents 13.4 percent of
total project costs and would include the following sub-components:
(i)  Project implementation support.  This sub-component represents
Rp. 28.6 billion ($15.5 million equivalent) or 9.1 percent of
project costs. The project would be implemented by existing
agencies at central and local government level. In order to
achieve project objectives, however, several of these agencies
will require assistance. The sub-component consists of
contracted-out engineering services (design and construction
supervision), project management, monitoring and evaluation
assistance, including financial and environmental aspects.
(ii)  Institution capacity building. This sub-component represents
Rp. 7.8 billion ($4.2 million equivalent) or 2.5 percent of
project costs. It would provide consultant services for the
implementation of local government revenue improvement action
plans, revenue administration reforms and O&M management
systems in nine cities in Sulawesi. It would also provide
assistance to provincial level water enterprise support units
and training to both local government and water enterprise
staff in the project cities in Sulawesi and Irian Jaya.
(iii)  Project preparation.  This sub-component represents Rp. 5.5
billion ($3.0 million equivalent) or 1.8 percent of project
costs and includes the repayment of the Rp. 2.8 billion ($1.5
million) advance from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF-
142) and the preparation of a follow-up urban development
project at an estimated cost of Rp. 2.7 billion ($1.5 million
equivalent). The follow-up project is intended to cover those
urban areas in Sulawesi, which are not included under the
proposed project. One part of the follow-up project
preparation costs ($0.5 million equivalent) will finance urban
strategy development for new, fast growing urban centers in the
project provinces.
D. ProJect Costs
3.7       The total project cost, as summarized in Table 2 below, is estimated
at Rp 311.5 billion ($168.9 million equivalent) including contingencies of Rp
53.4 billion ($29.3 million equivalent), taxes and duties of Rp 17.7 billion
($9.6 million fquivalent), and land acquisition of Rp 8.9 billion ($4.8



- 18 -
million equivalent). Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs are estimated
at Rp 126.7 billion ($68.7 million) or about 41 percent of total project
costF. Base costs are estimated as of October 1990. Quantities have been
based on completed preliminary designs and detailed designs where available.
Latest contract information have been used to arrive at current unit cost
estimates. Physical contingencies for civil works and equipment are estimated
at 10 percent in Sulawesi and 15 percent in Irian Jaya; the latter because of
the anticipated difficulties of implementing technical works i. the remote
towns of Irian Jaya. Price contingencies are estimated at 6.5 percent for
1990 and 1991 and 6.0 percent thereafter for domestic costs and at 3.6 percent
for foreign costs throughout the implementation period. Price contingencies
total Rp 31.9 billion ($17.3 million equivalent) or 11.4 percent of base costs
plus physical contingencies. Interest during construction (IDC) on the Bank
Loan would be about Rp 35.6 billion ($19.3 million equivalent), of which Rp.
31.7 billion is foreign cost (interest on the disbursed Loan amount during the
grace period) and Rp. 3.9 billion is domestic cost (due to the higher interest
rate charged by the central government on the onlent portion). Land acquisi-
tion costs are included in the base costs. Detailed cost estimates are
provided in Annex 1. Table 2 below summarizes project costs by component and
subcomponent.



- 19 -
Table 2:  PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Rp billion   _             million             Z of
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total    total
A. Infrastructure Sulawesi
1. Water Supply               18.7    15.1    33.8   10.1        8.2    18.3       10.9
2. Drainage                   23.9    14.0    37.9   13.0        7.6    20.6       12.2
3. Urban Roads                55.5    28.5    84.0   30.1    15.4    45.5          27.0
4. Solid Waste                 6.6      3.8    10.4    3.6       2.1      5.7       3.3
5. Human Waste                 2.7      1.6      4.3    1.5      0.8      2.3       1.4
6. Kampung Improvement         7.0      3.7    10.7    3.8       2.0      5.8       3.4
7. Market Infrastructure       0.6      0.3      0.9    0.3      0.2      0.5       0.3
Subtotal Infrastructure
Investment              115.0    67.0   182.0   62.4    36.3    98.7         58.5
8. Current O&M /a             11.6      5.3    16.9    6.3       2.9      9.2       5.4
9. Incremental O&M /a         12.0      7.0    19.0    6.5       3.8    10.3        6.1
Subtotal O&M               23.6    12.3    35.9   12.8        6.7    19.5      11.5
Subtotal Investment
and O&M                 138.6    79.3   217.9   75.2    43.0   118.2         70.0
B. Water Supply Irian Jaya    20.5    31.2    51.7   11.1    16.9    28.0            16.6
C. Technical Assistance
1. Project Implementation
Support                  18.4    10.2    28.6   10.0        5.5    15.5       9.1
2. Institution Capacity
Building                  4.3      3.5     7.8    2.3       1.9     4.2       2.5
3. Project Preparation         3.0      2.5      5.5    1.6      1.4      3.0       1.8
Subtotal Technical
Assistance               25.7    16.2    41.9   13.9        8.8    22.7      13.4
Total Project Cost          184.8   126.7   311.5  100.2    68.7   168.9    100.0
Interest During Construction   4.1    31.6    35.7    2.2    17.1    19.3
Total Financing Required  188.9   158.3   347.2  102.4    85.8   188.2
/a Non-water supply only
Base costs are in October 1990 prices.



- 20 -
E. Financing Plan
3.8        The proposed Bank loan of $100 million equivalent would finance
59 percent of total project costs, or about 70 percent of the project cost net
of identifiable taxes, duties, land acquisition costs and current O&M
expenditures. The loan and a Japanese grant of $0.7 million equivalent would
cover all foreign exchange costs estimated at $68.7 million equivalent and
local costs of $32.0 million equivalent. Counterpart funding, excluding
interest during construction, would be provided by the central government
($33.4 million equivalent), provincial governments ($10.4 million equivalent),
local governments ($18.1 million equivalent), water enterprises ($5.1 million
equivalent) and private sector contributions [$1.2 million equivalent, (see
para 3.11)]. Annex 2 provides city by city details of the financing plan. A
summary of the financing plan is provided in Table 3. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations regarding timely provision of counterpart funds.
Table : PROJECT FINANCINIC PLAN SLf~RY
(Rp billion)
Central 2caxrnment
P,Rivt Lonal rop!ncl IR            5               Japan.es Total
Patp Loc.  P,n,c,I  ~ oest,c !m Domestic iBm &oetic Grant
Infrastructure
1. Water supply La  0.0    13,0  0.0  26.7  3.0  0.0    0.0  31.4  11.4       85.5
2. Drainage         0.0   3.0   2.3    0.3  0.0  2.9    1.5  21.0  6.8        37.9
3. Solid wast-e     0.0  0.2    0 0   6.7  0.8  01   0.0  1.9   0.6           10.4
4. Hu_n *aste       1.0  0.2   0.0   1.5  0.2  0.3   0.1  0.8   0.3            4.3
i. Roads            1.2  2.2    6.2   10.9  1.3    22.0  8.3    24 2  7.8     8.1
R. Kamung iaronamnt    0.0  3.0   0.1   0.0  0.0  3.7   1.2  2.1   0.7        10.7
7. Market infrastructure  0.0  0.7  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0.  0.1  0.0         0.9
Subtotal Investment  .  Zi    L7   46.0   5   29.0  I" 2 LI   LE            233.
H. Current 04 AM    0 0   9.7   5.1    0.0  0 0  0.0    2.7  0.0   1.5        19.0
9. Incremental 0    b  0.0  8.4  5.0   0.0  0.0  0.0    2.2  0.0   1.3        16.9
Subtotal Infrastructure 22   Q404   ILA 46   0I  2t0    81 SLI 3            269,7
Technical Assistanca  0.0  2.4  0.5    4.2  0.3   1.6   0.6  21.9  8.6    1.8  41,9
Total Proiect Cost La    _   4.    19i.   50 2   Li  am   IL.Z  103.4  39 1   LI 3116
Percent             0.7  13.7   6.2   16.1  1.8  9.8    5.4  33.2  12.5   0.6    100.0
Interest during construction  12.7                                 23.0       S5.7
Total Financing L/c  2-2  55 4   19 3  2   56  30A   ILI  103I4   L.1   L_ 3472.
Local includes Rp 9.5 milllion user charges.
Non-atr. supply only.
Totals    y not add up due a.e rounding.
3.9        Cofinancing.  Cofinancing of Yen 103.6 million (Rp 1.4 billion or
$0.74 million equivalent) has been provided by a grant of Japan for
consultancy services required during the final stages of project preparation
and during the early years of project implementation. The grant agreement was
signed on February 26, 1991.
3.10       On-lending.  Of the Bank loan of $100 million equivalent to the
central goverrment, Rp. 23.5 and Rp. 26.7 billion ($12.7 and $14.5 million
equivalent or 27.2 percent) would be on-lent by the central government to
local governments and their water enterprises, respectively, under domestic
lending arrangements (DLAs) satisfactory to the Bank. Proceeds of the Bank
loan would cover 90 percent of the funds borrowed by local governments and
water enterprises under the project. The amount of total borrowing was



- 21 -
determined on the basis of the willingness and capability of local governments
and water enterprises to borrow. Central government would bear the foreign
exchange risk and the risk of interest rate variation. The funds onlent
through DLAs would carry an interest rate of 10.5 percent per annum over 20
years including five years of grace. Interest and commitment charges would be
payable during the grace period. Interest during construction on onlent funds
would be Rp. 12.7 billion ($6.9 million equivalent), of which Rp. 8.7 billion
($4.7 million) would be in foreign exchange.9/ The loans would mainly
finance water supply, urban roads and solid waste management subprojects.
Signing of a domestic lending arrangement acceptable to the Bank will be a
condition of disbursement of onlent funds for each local government.
3.11      Regional Financing.  About Rp. 64.3 billion ($34.8 million
equivalent) or 20.6 percent of the total project costs would be financed from
regional level resources. These resources include water enterprise charges to
consumers, second level regional government taxes, assigned revenues, service
charges and other local revenues, contributions from the provincial government
budgets, and private sector-sourced funding (principally relating to
contributions of land and repayments to the proposed local small credit
schemes for the financing of on-site sanitation infrastructure).
3.12      Central Government Non-Repayable Financing.  Of the total central
non-repayable financing of project costs, one part, Rp. 47.3 billion ($25.6
million equivalent) consists of the formula driven and ad hoc development
grants (INPRES Dati I and II and INPRES Jalan) that provide cash supplements
to regional budgets. The other part, Rp. 142.5 billion ($77.2 million
equivalent), consists of central government development budget (APBN) funds,
which can also be divided into two parts. One part, about Rp. 85.3 billion is
for infrastructure and technical assistance which is classified as central
government responsibility. These are APBN DIP (national project) funds and
would be distinguished in practical terms by having central government staff
as project managers (PIMPROs) and assistant managers (PIMBAGPROs) responsible
for signing contracts. The other part, about Rp. 57.2 billion, is the grants-
in-kind type of central contribution which supports regional government
responsibilities (see para. 1.9 above). These are APBN Daerah DIP
(national/regional project) funds for which regional government staff would
serve as project managers and/or assistant project managers. Of the total
non-repayable (APBN and INPRES) financing of Rp. 189.8 billion ($102.9 million
equivalent), the Bank loan would finance 71 percent or Rp. 134.0 billion
($72.6 million equivalent) and central GOI counterpart financing would provide
21 percent or Rp. 55.8 billion ($30.2 million equivalent).
j.13      Rationale for grants-in-kind central government contribution.  The
water supply, drainage and road sub-sectors are the main beneficiaries of the
central government's grants-in-kind support. Seven water supply subprojects
in Irian Jaya would be grant financed. Also, the rehabilitation component of
the subproject in the provincial capital, Jayapura, would be financed from
9/   An additional Rp. 23.0 billion ($12.4 million equivalent) would be the
interest during construction on the balance of the Bank Loan, which would
be born by the central government.



- 22 -
grants, while system expansion would be financed from internally generated and
borrowed funds. (All water supply subprojects in Sulawesi would be financed
from internally generated and borrowed funds.) The beneficiary water
enterprises in Irian Jaya have been recently established, are still managed by
the central government and, with the exception of the Jayapura enterprise, are
not mature enough to borrow. The proposed investments are necessary to
improve the viability of these relatively small schemes. A timetable for
transferring the water enterprises to the local governments during the proiect
implementation period was agreed during negotiations.
3.14      The local governments in Sulawesi would borrow from the central
government substantially more under the project than in the past. However,
their revenue generation capacity to service debt is limited, while the
infrastructure deficiencies are large. As it was mentioned in para. 1.8
above, there is an apparent conflict between the expenditure responsibilities
and the taxing authority of the local governments. Property and road user
taxes have the potential to recover the cost of local government drainage and
road improvements, but the maximum rate of the property tax is extremely low
and all road user taxes accrue to the central and provincial level of
government. Therefore under this project (and for the medium term) the only
way to finance even a modest program of infrastructure improvements in the
drainage and road subsectors is to continue to rely on central government
resources. The extent of the grants-in-kind support in the non-water supply
subsectors was determined on the basis of the gap between the local
governments ability to finance infrastructure investments (O&M was given
priority in the use of local government resources) and the total cost of well-
prepared, viable subprojects. In addition, a formula (based on city size)
e' ermining the maximum share of grants-in-kind support from the central
..overnment was also used.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Responsibilities
4.1       Central Agencies.  Coordination and guidance for the project would
be provided by The Urban Development Coordination Team (TKPP, composed of
director-general level officials), with the assistance of the IUIDP
Implementation Management Group (IMG, composed of directorate-chief level
officials) and its UNCHS-executed IUIDP Implementation Support Project
(INS/89/014). BAPPENAS chairs TKPP and IMG, and is responsible for daily
management of INS/89/014. Key members of TKPP and IMG are MPW, MHA and MOF.
4.2       Overall responsibility for technical supervision and management of
the proposed project in the central government would be assumed by DGCK (MPW),
which would take the lead role in management of components and subcomponents



- 23 -
under its own specific responsibility (as would DGBM) 10/ and in ensuring
(through TKPP and IMG) that other agencies at all levels perform their own
roles adequately. DGCK would be assisted in carrying out this responsibility
by the IMG-based INS/89/014 Project and by the DGCK-based Central Project
Management Office (CPMO) and Central Project Finance Office (CPFO).
Established under earlier urban projects financed by the Bank and other
donors, the CPMO would be responsible for monitoring all program and
subproject implementation and for arranging most technical assistance and
training. The CPFO, similarly, was established under past projects and would
be responsible for oversight of all project accounting and auditing and for
monitoring of Loan disbursement.
4.3       Regional Agencies.  Provincial governments of Sulawesi would have
direct implementation responsibility for subprojects financed from INPRES I
and APBD I funds. The provincial planning agencies (BAPPEDA I) would assist
local governments in preparation of funding requests, and monitor and evaluate
overall progress of project implementation in local governments. The project
in Irian Jaya will be managed by a Project Management Unit (PMU) under PPSAB
(the central government water supply project implementation agency under
DGCK).
4.4       Local Agencies in Sulawesi.  Coordination and guidance would be
provided by BAPPEDA II. reporting to the bupati for kabupaten districts or
walikota for kotamadya cities. Project Management Offices (PMOs) would be
established in local governments under BAPPEDA II and headed by a senior
BAPPEDA II officer. Project Finance Offices (PFOs) would also be established
in each local government, usually in association with the Finance Division.
Each PMO and PFO would include a local consultant shared with neighboring
local governments and could include seconded regular staff of the concerned
local agencies (DISPENDA II, Bagian Keuangan II, etc). Most APBD II project
managers (PIMPROS) would be local Dinas PU (DPUK) staff.
4.5       Local Agencies in Irian Jaya.  Project implementation units in the
eight cities would be formed from water company and PPSAB staff and would
report to the PMU in the PPSAB office.
4.6       Summary.  Implementation arrangements are summarized in Table 4
below. The responsibilities for implementing components and subcomponents of
the proposed project are in general assigned to different agencies and levels
of government according to current GOI policies and practices, which provide
for increasing local participation. No new structural entities would be
required, though several would be strengthened under the project. Key staff
to the central and local Project Management, Implementation and Finance
Offices and Units were appointed at the beginning of FY 92. A more detailed
description of responsibilities by project component is provided in Annex 4.
10/ DGCK and DGBM would be responsible for direct implementation of central
government infrastructure investments in addition to being responsible
for oversight and supervision of all infrastructure expenditures,
including that implemented by the regional governments.



- 24 -
Confirmation of implementation responsibilities of participating agencies was
obtained at negotiations.
Table 4: IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES
Central Government                                          Local Government
MPW     MOF   MHA                                                         PDAM/
TKPP  DGCK A  DCGM     PUOD A  OAPPEDA   DPUP  PPSA8    BAPPEDA  PFO  DPUK  BPAM
Responsibility           A IMG  DGBM   DOB    BANGDA    TK I                (PMU)    TK II (PMO)
Overall Coord.
and Guidance             X
Overall Tech. Supervision
and Management                    X
Overall Project Monitoring
and Reporting                     X
Overall Financial Mgt.
(Special Account and
onlending)                                X
Overall Institution and
and Human Resource Dev't                         X
Project Completion Report           X                                           X       X         X      X      X
Sulawesi Com onent
Tm plemntation of
infrastructure investments        X                              X                   X
Vajor Consultant Selection
and ICB Procuremnt                X             X
Specialisod Support (tech,
financial A training)                                     X
Expenditure Programs and
Annual Budgets                                  X         X                            X
Coordination and
Supervision                       X                       X                            X
Procuroment of Goods, Works
and Local Consultants             X                              X                                   X      X
Supervision, Certification A
Progress Reporting                X                                                                  X      X
Oisbursement and
reimbursement requests                   X                                                    X             X
Project and annual accounts
financial progress reporting   X                                                              X             X
Irian Jaxa Component
Watershed Manangment                                        X                            X
BPAM - PDAM Conversion              X             X                             X                             X
Major Consult. Selection A
IC8 Procurement                   X
Implement. Mgt. A
Coord./Support to PIUs                                                        X
Packaged LCB Goods
Procurement                                                                   X
Project Implementation,
Procuremnt of Works A
Local Consultants                                                                                            X
Supervision of Works, Certifi-
cation and Progress Reports                                                   X                              X
Budget and Annual Accounts                                                      X                              X
Disbursement and
reimburosmnt requests                    X                                    X                              X



- 25 -
B. Project Implementation Agreements
4.7       While all authorities required for successful implementation of the
proposed project are already held by existing structural agencies and each
level of government, Project Implementation Agreements (PIAs) were prepared
and will be signed for each of the nine cities in Sulawesi to confirm
essential understandings and commitments based upon preparation documentation.
The PIAs have five attachments:
-    Attachment I presents the multi-year project and the financial plan;
-    Attachment II lists the specific subprojects to be implemented;
-    Attachment III describes the identified revenue improvement actions
and the local government commitment to implement the revenue
administration reform system (MAPATDA);
-    Attachment IV describes institutional development actions in water
enterprises and local governments and the commitment to implement
the new O&M management system (POMMS);
-    Attachment V lists actions and procedures to be followed during
implementation in order to ensure that the project has a positive
environmental impact.
PIAs specify that substantial changes in the local government expenditure
programs (revision of subprojects costing more than US$1.1 million equivalent)
will be made with prior Bank consultation. PIAs for the nine local
governments were finalized at negotiations.  PIAs acceptable to the Bank would
be signed as a condition of disbursement for the concerned local governments.
C. Implementation Schedule
4.8       Project implementation is expected to commence in July, 1991, and
would be completed over a five year period. The proposed disbursement period
of five and a half years is shorter than the disbursement profile for the
urban sector in Indonesia, and is adopted for the following reasons. The
proposed loan includes no new or complex kinds of sub,rojects and is not
appreciably larger in real terms than programs that have already been
implemented in the same provinces. The technical teams at the local level
which will be responsible for implementation were fully involved during the
preparation phase. Land acquisition recquirements are minor and unlikely to
cause delays. There is no national level technical assistance in the project
which in the past tended to lengthen the loan disbursement period. Also,
while earlier it was standard practice in Indonesia to prepare detailed design
after loan effectiveness, under this project detailed designs and bidding
documents for the first year subprojects will be completed before loan
effectiveness with funding from the Japanese Grant Facility. The
implementation schedule is attached as Annex 4A.



- 26 -
D. Procurement
4.9       Civil Works.  The estimated total value of civil works to be
procured for this project is about $96 million equivalent including
contingencies. Contracts will be spread over 17 project towns in Sulawesi and
Irian Jaya, covering up to seven subsectors of urban infrastructure and
spanning over a five-year implementation period. The resulting, relatively
minor works are not suitable for packaging into contracts larger than about $1
million equivalent. Approximately 800 separate contracts are expected to be
awarded ranging in value from about $25,000 to $900,000. These contracts are
unlikely to be of interest to large, international contractors; local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank would be used for
procurement. Acceptable LCB procedures have been developed and applied during
the implementation of the Urban V (Ln. 2408-IND) in Ujung Pandang and local
contractors have proven to be capable of carrying out the works.
Approximately $2.3 million equivalent worth of civil works would be executed
by force account (direct labor) mainly using water enterprise staff for
network rehabilitation and installation of service connections.
4.10      Goods.  Approximately $36 million equivalent worth of materials and
equipment would be procured for this project. To the extent possible, the
procurement of goods would be grouped into packages larger than $200,000 to be
suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB). Pipes and mechanical
and electrical equipment for water supply systems and facilities, about $19
million equivalent, would be procured using ICB procedures in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Local suppliers in Indonesia are expected to compete for ICB
contracts and, in bid comparison with fureign bidders, will be granted a
margin of preference equal to 15 percent of the CIF price of imported goods or
the actual custom duties and import taxes, whichever is less. Supply
contracts for various materials and equipment valued at less than $200,000
equivalent would be awarded through LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank up
to an aggregate limit of $12.7 million. Miscellaneous minor goods costing
less than $50,000 per contract and up to an aggregate limit of $700,000 would
be procured through local or international shopping.
4.11      Procurement of consultants services and technical assistance would
be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers.
4.12      Procurement Review.  Bidding documents and bid awards for all civil
works contracts larger than $0.5 million and for all goods supply contracts
larger than $200,000 equivalent (representing about 60 percent of the total
value of procurement) would be subject to prior review by the Bank. This
review limit is thought to be appropriate because there are numerous groups of
contracts of similar nature. The first set of documents for each type of
procurement (e.g., road works, drainage construction, pipe supply, etc.) will
be reviewed by the Bank. The balance of contracts would be subject to
selective post-review by Bank staff. The procurement arrangements are
summarized in Table 5.  Details of the proposed contract packaging are given
in Annex 4C.



- 27 -
Table 5: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(all amounts in $ million)
Procurement Procedure /a
Expenditure Category                  ICB      LCB      Other lb  N.A./c   Total
Civil works                             -      74.1       2.3      19.8      96.2
(55.4)    (1.1)    (0.0)   (56.5)
Goods /d                              19.2     15.7       0.7        -       35.6
(15.8)   (12.0)    (0.5)               (28.3)
Consulting services, technical          -        -       22.0       0.7      22.7
assistance and training                               (15.2)    (0.0)   (15.2)
Land, taxes and duties                  -       -          -       14.4      14.4
(0.0)    (0.0)
Total                             19.2      89.8      25.0      34.9    168.9
(15.8)   (67.4)   (16.8)    (0.0)  (100.0)
/a  Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed from Bank loan.
/b  Includes force account (direct laboc) work, local/international shopping,
selection of consultants following Bank guidelines and repayment of PPF
advance.
/c  Includes expenditures for O&M activities and $0.7 million TA cofinanced by
the Japanese Grant Facility.
Id  Includes $2.5 million in respect of vehicle purchases against which IBRD
will not disburse.
E. Disbursement
4.13      Proceeds of the loan which would finance about 59.2 percent of the
total project cost, would be disbursed as follows:
(a) under DLA funded expenditures of local governments and their water
enterprises 90 percent of expenditures;
(b) under central government (APBN and INPRES) funded expenditures (i)
85 percent of expenditures for civil works by contract; (ii)
60 percent of expenditures for civil works under force account
(water system rehabilitation and service connections) on the basis
of fixed unit rates for these works; (iii) 100 percent of foreign
(CIF) costs of directly imported goods, 100 percent of ex-factory
costs (net of taxes) of locally manufactured goods and 65 percent of
the costs of all other locally procured goods; (iv) 100 percent of
net-of-tax expenditures for consultancy services.



- 28 -
No disbursements would be made for land acquisition, project overheads,
operation and maintenance.
4.14      Direct payments.  In appropriate circumstances contractors requiring
payment in foreign currency can be paid through ,BRD direct payment
procedures. Such payments would be made on the application of implementing
agencies against contracts involving foreign currency paymenits and are subject
to a minimum of $50,000 equivalent per application.
4.15      Special Account.  Except in the case where paymentb are made through
direct payment procedures (see above), the IBRD loan proceeds would be
disbursed through a Special Account established by MOF's DG Budget at Bank
Indonesia (BI). This Special Account would be maintained in US dollars with
an initial deposit of $3 million from IBRD equal to anticipated ave7.ge
disbursements over a four month period. Upon request by GOI, replenishment of
the Special Account would be made quarterly or when the balance reaches
50 percent of the initial deposit amount, whichever occurs earlier. Drawings
from t1e Special Account would directly meet contract payments under 4.13. (b)
above. Disbursements for subloans to local governments and enterprises would
be made through an account of MOF's DG Monetary Affairs (DGM) in Bank
Indonesia, the Rekening Pembangunan Daerah, which has already financed a
number of domestic loans and has access to sufficient domestically-sourced
funds to prefinance a tranche of loan advances to be deposited with designated
local banks for use by the borrowers (local governments and enterprises) for
making eligible payments on subprojects. Through the Special Account,
reimbursement would be made for the advances on the basis of appropriate
documentation for actual payments made by local borrowers from the advances.
4.16      Disbursements for civil works contracts and force account valued
less than $500,000 equivalent and goods supply contracts with a value of less
than $200,000 equivalent would be on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). Detailed supporting documentation would be re>tained by MOF's
Directoratc of Budget Administration (TUA) and implementing agencies, and be
made available for review by IBRD on request. All other disbursements for
civil works would be made on the basis of supporting documentation (a) payment
orders issued by the State Treasury offices or by local banks administering
projects; (b) certificates of work performance issued by implementing
agencies; and (c) "No Objection" letter from IBRD regarding the award of the
contract. Documentation in support of contracts requiring direct payments
would be sent to IBRD. The disbursement schedule is attached in Annex 4D.
4.17      Retroactive financing.  Retroactive financing of not more than $1
million (one percent of the Loan amount) would be provided for financing of
expenditures for works, goods and services incurred after March 31, 1991 (the
beginning of GOI's 1991/92 fiscal year). In order to meet eligibility
criteria for disbursement under retroactive finarcing, implementing agencies
would be required to conform to Bank procurement guidelines and to maintain
adequate records and accounts.



- 29 -
F. Project Accounts and Audits
4.18      Arrangements would be required: (a) to prepare regular consolidated
statements of expenditure by financing source for the whole project (project
memorandum accounts) as a basis for financial monitoring and for financial
audits; and (b) to collect documentation and prepare reimbursement
applications.
4.19      At the local level in Sulawesi, Project Finance Offices (PFOs) will
be set up which will maintain complete and accurate records of all project
related expenditures financed by all sources of funds for all project
components including those of the water enterprises. These will be submitted
annually for audit by the State Audit Board (BPKP) oi each province.
4.20      At the central level, the Central Project Finance Office (CPFO) will
prepare project accounts of all components implemented directly by the central
agencies, including all water supply projects in Irian Jaya. CPFO will also
be responsible for consolidating quarterly project accounts from the PFOs and
submitting them annually for consolidated audit purposes by the BPKP Central
Office. CPFO will also coordinate statements-of-expenditure (SOE) and Special
Account audits with the Directorate General for the Budget, Bank Indonesia and
the State Audit Boards's Central Office. The combined audit report will be
submitted to the Bank for review no later than nine months after the end of
GOI's fiscal year. Assurances and confirmation of accounting and auditing
arrangements were obtained at negotiations.
G. Project Reporting, Monitoring and Bank Supervision
4.21      The Central Project Management Office (CPMO) would be responsible
for preparation of quarterly progress reports covering all project components
implemented, including institutional development and municipal management
improvement.  These qaarterly reports would include sunmaries of progress at
the local level prepared by the local Project Management Offices (PMOs) in
Sulawesi, and by the Project Management Unit (PMU) in Irian Jaya 411.A submitted
to DGCK/CPMO not later than one month following completion of the quarter
concerned. CPMO would submit the overall progress report to TKPP, BAPPENAS,
MHA, MOF, MPW and the Bank not later than two months following completion of
the quarter concerned. In addition, annual progress reports would cover (a)
conformity of annual budget allocation with the expenditure programs the
project is based on; (b) conformity of actual expenditures (including O&M)
with budget allocations; (c) environmental management plan implementation and
results of environmental monitoring; (d) achievement of water enterprise and
local government financial and revenue improvement targets. These reperts
would form the basis for monitoring of progress. Upon completion of the
project, a Project Completion Report will be prepared by CPMO for submission
to GOI and the Bank. Categories of key implementation and reporting
indicators and responsibilities for their reporting are summarized in Annex
4E. Assarances and confirmation of reporting and monitoring arrangements were
obtained at negotiations.
4.22      Bank Supervision Plan.  In view of the project's scope and location,
it would be prudent to plan on an intensive level of supervision of about 20



- 30 -
staff weeks per year for the first two years of project implementation and
about 15 staff weeks per year after that. Supervision missions would be
scheduled on a semi-annual basis, one in mid-year and the other around
November. Only the November mission would include extensive field visits.
The mid-year missions would consist of a municipal engineer, a water supply
engineer and a financial analyst/economist, the November mission would also
include an environmentalist.  The mid-year 1994 mission woultd most likely be
designated as a mid-term review of the project that would, in addition to
carrying out normal supervision tasks, have the primary objective of working
with GOI to formulate a project completion plan.  Detailed supervision plan
can be found in Annex 4F.
H. Operations and Maintenance
4.23      The project includes O&M in the non-water supply sub-sectors. O&M
will be the responsibility of local governments. Expenditures are clearly
distinguished between current O&M (e.g., level of current expenditure for O&H
of existing facilities and services in the subsector) and incremental O&M
defined as the agreed additional expenditures to (a) improve O&M of existtng
facilities or services, and (b) initiate necessary O&M for new and
rehabilitated infrastructure and services developed during the implementation
period of the proposed project. These additional O&M expenditures, with the
associated local capacities to execute improved O&M, represent one of the most
important project implementation targets. Assistance will be provided under
the Loan to install in all local governments a simplified version of the
Performance-based Operations and Maintenance Management System (POMMS),
developed for large cities under Urban V and USL, and to strengthen the
capacity of the existing PMDUs (created with USL assistance) and to set up a
new PMDU in Irian Jaya to advise and assist local water enterprises to improve
O&M performance in that subsector. O&M expenditures would also be monitored
by CPMO for review by semi-annual Bank supervision missions and detailed
physical assessment in the mid-term review. Detailed O&M arrangements for
Sulawesi are described in Annex 4G.
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Local Governments
5.1       Central Grant Dependency.  Most Indonesian local governments,
including all the nine in Sulawesi included in the project, are dependent on
central grants for the bulk of their revenues. Even in the largest project
city, Ujung Pandang, central routine and development grants in recent years
represented two third of total revenues. Grant dependency is high both for
development expenditures and for financing routine administration, operational
and mairtenance needs (see Annex 9). It is expected that, at least in the
next five to six years, local governments will continue to receive substantial
grant funding from the central government.
5.2       Non-grant Revenues.  Local governments' main non-grant revenue
sources fall into three categories: local government taxes; local service



- 31 -
charges; and assigned central government revenue, principally the PBB
(property tax). In most of the local governments half of non-grant revenues
comes from service charges. In Ujung Pandang, Manado and Gorontalo, local
taxes are the second most important revenue source, representing approximately
3w percent of total non-grant revenues. Property tax receipts are more
important and represent 30 to 40 percenv  of revenues in the other citie., but
only 10 to 20 percent in Ujung Pandang, Manado and Gorontalo.
5.3       Growth in non-grant revenue has been fairly good overall in recent
years.  Analysis over the 1983/84 to 1989/90 period indicates an overall
average growth rate of about 15 to 20 percent annually in nominal terms or
about 8 to 13 percent in real terms (see Annex 9). Within these aggregated
figures growth rates for the property tax were generally higher and for local
taxes lower. There were surprisingly little variations from local government
to local government. Future non-grant revenue forecasts prepared under the
project predict overall average real growth similar to the one in the recent
past
5.4       Borrowing.  Local governments, apart from their older enterprises,
have not on the whole made great use of borrowing in the financing of capital
projects. Five have borrowed only for market construction under the central
government's heavily subsidized INPRES Pasar program, which has been
disbanded. The only exception is Ujung Pandang, which has borrowed
substantial sums in recent years under the Urban III and V projects with
interest rates of 7.25 and 10.25 percent, respectively, and also from Bank
Pembangunan Daerah (a government bank for regional development) and the INPRES
Pasar program with no interest charged.
5.5       Until recently local governments were required to restrict the
levels of their borrowing by the "debt service ratio" criterion broadly
defined as the ratio of total loan charges payable in a year to total revenues
available for development in that year. However, the application of that
criterion has been unclear and open to varying interpretations. The maximum
permitted ratio was prescribed at 15 percent, which, on the stricter
interpretations of how to define the ratio, was very conservative. Confusion
about the former criterion may have been a contributory factor in local
governments past reluctance to borrow in any substantial way.  GO' has now
decided to replace it with one based on a more closely defined minimum "debt
service coverage rat4i" (DSCR). This has been stipulated for any given year
as:
(projected non-grant and local revenues for the year in question less
projected routine account expenditure on staff, administration and
operat'onal and everyday maintenance needs) + (total estimated loan
charge obligations arising in that year from currently outstanding loans
and future proposed borrowing).
5.6       The minimum value of the DSCR ratio has been set at 1.5 by GOI for
borrowing by local governments. Estimates of maximum borrowing capacity for
each of the local governments in the project have been prepared by making
forward projections of the elements in the above formula for the program
period and for a number of years following sufficient to establish a clear



- 32 -
trend indicating that the minimum ratio will be safely achieved. The total
capacities are small, however, and some local governments have indicated a
preference to finance their investment directly. All local governments, with
the exception of Kendari, have nevertheless made commitments to borrow at
least smail amounts after consultation with central and provincial officials.
Giveii the low use of borrowing in the past, the newness of the debt service
coverage ratio criterion, and the likelihood that regional governments will
have to finance development expenditures in a number of sectors not covered by
the project from their own resources, the local government proposals can
generally be regarded as satisfactory. Assurances and confirmations were
obtained at negotiations that local governments eligible for borrowing under
this project will maintain minimum debt service coverage ratios of 1.5.
5.7       Local Revenue Adiinistration.  Although annual growth in local
revenues has generally been steady, studies undertaken during preparation of
the revenue projections provide evidence that current levels of major revenue
sources are considerably below their real potentials. Deficiencies are often
found in local government administration which lead to under-assessment and
under-collection of tax revenues. The project seeks to address these
deficiencies by continuing to support on-going efforts which were initiated
under previous Bank loans and to expand the scope of the work as described
below.
5.8       Revenue improvement and related institutional actions prepared
during the project preparation phase, and to be refined during project
implementation, seek to identify practical steps needed to achieve
improvements in the planning and administration of local taxes and service
charges. Such steps typically include collection of data on the revenue bases
including proper identification of tax objects and tax subjects, analyses of
revenue potentials, review of tariffs, and establishment of annual revenue
targets representing a progressive narrowing of the gap between performance
and identified potentials. As specified under the Project Implementation
Agreements, local governments will comnit themselves to implementing these
with technical assistance provided under the project. In this connection, the
project will provide further support to the reform effort of the local
government revenue departments (DISPENDA). The MAPATDA reform program 11/
initiated under Urban V project, was first introduced and tested in six
cities, then expanded to 100 other cities, and is now in the process of
nationwide implementation. The proposed project would complete the
implementation process in the nine Sulawesi local governments.
11/ The main highlights of MAPATDA include a reorganization of the local
government revenue department (DISPENDA) to reorient the focus on
taxpayer information, an important stage of the tax administration
process (e.g., assessment, billing, collaction) in contrast to the
existing structure where the focus is on the tax type which does not put
taxpayer records in one field. The new system will centralize personal
record6 for each identified taxpayer and provide a complete assessment of
taxpayer's liabilities from all kinds of taxes.



- 33 -
B. Water Enterprises
5.9       There are fourteen water enterprises under this project, six in
Sulawesi and eight in Irian Jayal2/. Three enterprises in Sulawesi are
PDAMs (Manado, Bitung and Palu), but all the others are still BPAMs. The
PDAMs are owned and operated by their respective local governments, while the
BPAMs are operated on a temporary arrangement under the Ministry of Public
Works. The more mature three Sulawesi BPAMs (Gorontalo, Luwu, Bone) are
scheduled to become PDAMs during the current calendar year. The BPAMs in
Irian Jaya would become PDAMs during project implementation.
5.10      Financial Performance.  All PDAMs and BPAMs are required to prepare
annual financial reports which are audited by the State Audit Board (BPKP).
Income statements for the past years are presented in Annex 8 (except for the
just established BPAMs in Wamena and Serui in Irian Jaya). While all
enterprises were able to cover their O&M expenses (some only in the last
year), only six were able to achieve operating surpluses after depreciation.
Substantial net income (after tax) was generated in Manado only. None of the
water enterprises has notable experience with long term borrowing.
5.11      Water Enterprises Management.  Key managerial and skilled/technical
personnel are lacking, particularly in the areas of financial accounting,
billing and collection, inventory control, O&M and construction management.
The prospects of making improvement through recruitment appear to be bleak, as
better job opportunities and employment incentives elsewhere make it difficult
in most cases for WEs to attract fully qualified staff. Provincial Monitoring
and Development Units (PMDUs) modeled on the successful experience in East
Java were set up in Sulawesi 'o provide technical and managerial services to
the PDAMs to help fill these gaps. In Irian Jaya, the same kind of services
to the BPAMs are presently provided by PPSAB, the water supply project
implementation unit of the provincial office (KANWIL) of MPW. During project
implementation, however, the water enterprises will be turned over to the
local governments (i.e., will become PDAMs) and PPSAB assistance will be
phased out. Therefore, under the proposed project, technical assistance will
be extended to strengthen the existing PMDU in Sulawesi and to establish a
similar PMDU in Irian Jaya. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
properly staffed and organized PMDUs for the principal purpose of providing
technical and managerial services to PDAMs will be established in Irian Jaya
by July 1, 1992.
12/ The Ujung Pandang, Kendari and Pare Pare water enterprises are not
included in the project. Ujung Pandang is already implementing a multi-
year project financed under a loan from Japan. A fully prepared
subproject for PDAM Kendari had to be dropped because the local
government decided against borrowing. PDAM Pare Pare has large arrears
in the repayment of a loan it received under the Second Water Supply
Project.



- 34 -
5.12      Financial Projections.  Financial projections for each water
enterprise have been prepared based on several assumptions, of which the key
ones include: (a) existing and new water connections; (b) average consumption
per connection based on tariff levels, real income of consumers, price
elasticity of -0.2 and income elasticity of 0.6; (c) assumed water tariff
rates; (d) increasing water sales resulting from new connections ar-d reduced
unaccounted-for-water (UFW); (e) rates of inflation for local and foreign
costs; and (f) a financing plan, investment levels and operating parameters.
The projection exercise involved income statements, sources and applications
of funds, balance sheets, financing plans, and monitoring indicators.
Projected income statements for each enterprise, including real tariff
increases ranging from zero to one hundred percent, are provided in Annex 8.
5.13      It is expected that seven water enterprises, six in Sulawesi and one
in Irian Jaya, will borrow Rp. 29.7 billion ($lC.l million equivalent) under
the proposed project, of which Rp. 26.7 billion would be financed under the
Bank loan. Among these, the Jayapura water enterprise will also receive a
grant to finance the rehabilitation of the water supply system. Other
enterprises in Irian Jaya, which are not mature enough to borrow, will receive
grants only. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a) all PDAMs will maintain a maximum debt-equity ratio of 70/30 and a
minimum debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) of 1.3 (the Jayapura
enterprise 1.5) on a three-year rolling average during the project
implementation period;
(b)  all water enterprises (including BPAMs) will maintain revenues which
cover at least O&M costs during the first three years of project
implamentation and both O&M costs and depreciation after that;
(c)  to meet the above financial performance criteria, all water
enterprises will adjust their tariffs, starting with April 1, 1992
and thereafter on January 1, 1994 and January 1, 1996, after
reviewing the adequacy of their tariffs and furnishing a copy of
these reviews to the Bank.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Beneficiaries and Poverty Impact
6.1       In Sulawesi, the whole urban population in the project cities (about
1.5 million people) would benefit from the urban road and drainage improvement
component of the project. About 250,000 people would directly benefit from
kampung improvements. About 900,000 people live in those areas which would be
served by the solid waste management component. About 157,000 people would
receive house connections to the water supply systems and 34,000 would be
served by the newly constructed 430 public water taps. In addition, 240,000
already connected people would benefit from improved service (24 hour supply
and better water quality). In Irian Jaya, about 133,000 people would receive
house connections and 56,000 would be served by 560 public taps.  The 150,000



- 35 -
already connected people would also benefit from improved water supply service
(currently none of the systems in Irian Jaya operate on a 24 hour basis).
6.2       According to the Indonesia Poverty Assessment and Strategy Report
(Report No. 8034-IND), 28.4 percent of the urban population in the Eastern
Islands of Indonesia lived in poverty in 1987. Drainage, kampung improvement
and public water tap construction under the proposed project would be
especially beneficial for this populatior in Sulawesi and Irian Jaya.
Experience has shown that it is mainly the urban poor who are affected by
frequent flooding, because they must settle in the most marginal, low-lying
areas or along drains and river banks that often overflow. These services
would be provided under the proposed project as freestanding drainage
subprojects and as part of the nation-wide kampung improvement program (KIP)
for upgrading informal, unplanned and unserviced urban settlements,
particularly with low-income residents. Public taps would provide safe water
that is readily accessible to poor families lacking house connections and
living in water-stressed areas. Easily accessible, low-cost drinking water
can substantially improve the life of these people.
6.3       The proposed project strengthens local participation in the project
cycle. Beneficiary households and communities are involved in the
identification, preparation and implementation of neighborhood (kampung) and
market improvement programs (KIP and MIIP). Similar local involvement
continues for solid waste management and sanitation programs, which also
emphasize household financing and the use of community groups. Water supply,
drainage and road investment programs emphasize increasing participation of
community groups in program and subproject planning, and local government
responsibility for O&M are stressed.
6.4       Large numbers of women will benefit from the project.  Particularly
improved access to and quality of water supply and better environmental
sanitation resulting from the solid waste management, low-cost sanitation and
drainage programs will provide important benefits to several thousands of
women and children. Women play an important role in those community groups
and organizations, which will participate in the implementation of low-cost
sanitation and kampung improvement programs and other investments directly
affecting their neighborhoods.
B. Economic Analysis
6.5       Since the project covers seven sectors of urban infrastructure
services (water supply, drainage, human waste management, solid waste
management, road improvement, kampung improvement, marketplace infrastructure
improvement) and a large number of urbar areas, it was necessary to develop a
structured approach to economic analysir. Subprojects were classified
according to investment costs, i.e. small (less than Rp 400 million in
constant 1990 prices), medium (Rp 400 million to Rp 2 billion) and large (over
Rp 2 billion). A subproject was defined as a logical unit of investment in
one of the subsectors which must be implemented as one activity to obtain the
planned benefits. Economic viability of small subprojects, provided that
these adhere to agreed planning and design criteria, was presumed. Medium
size subprojects were subject to a simplified economic analysis. Large



- 36 -
subprojects had to go through a more detailed analysis and the applied
assumptions and methodology was subject to a Bank review on a case by case
basis.
6.6       Economic rate of return (ERR) or net present value (NPV)
calculations were required for medium and large subprojects in the water
supply, road and drainage sectors. Quantification of economic benefits was
based on (a) consumers' willingness to pay for water supply (the methodology
is described in Annex 7); (b) expected savings in vehicle operation costs and
time savings for road improvements; and (c) either avoided flood damage or
increase in land values plus reduction in the expected level of road
maintenance costs for drainage improvements. An ERR of 10 percent was used as
the cut-off rate.
6.7       Economic benefit of human and solid waste management and kampung
improvement subprojects was not quantified. Both the human and solid waste
management subprojects represent least cost solutions to the problem of
providing a basic level of service that was adapted to local needs and
traditions. Economic viability of similar kampung improvement activities was
demonstrated under a series of World Bank assisted projects in Indonesia.
6.8       During preparation, all identified subprojects were analyzed ac-
cording to these criteria. Some water supply subprojects proved to be non-
economic and were substantially modified or eliminated from the project. ERRs
or NPVs of identified road and drainage improvements were calculated in each
kabupaten and, within the constraints set by fund availability and local
government implementation capacity, the most attractive ones were proposed for
implementation. A large majority of the subprojects fell into the 10 to
15 percent ERR range. Due to very high traffic densities, several road
improvements had an estimated ERR of 25 percent or more.
C. Environmental Impact
6.9       The project is expected to have a positive overall impact on the
environment. It would reduce the noni-sanitary disposal of human and solid
waste and decrease flooding. Environmental screening and preliminary
environmental assessment have been carried out in accordance with GOI
procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank. More detailed environmental
assessments (called ANDALs in Indonesia) were recommended for a few
subprojects and those will be carried out during April - June 1991, financed
from the Japanese grant. The potential negative impacts are the following:
(a) overabstraction of river water for the piped systems causing water
resource utilization conflicts; (b) air and water pollution at the final solid
and human waste disposal sites; (c) soil pollution caused by sediments removed
from drains; (d) resettlement in Ujung Pandang, Sulawesi, due to widening of a
road (there is no resettlement expected in Irian Jaya).
6.10      Environmental management and monitoring plans (RKLs and RPLs,
respectively) have been prepared which prescribe strategies and measures to
minimize the negative environmental impacts during implementation. The
detailed design revisions, also financed from the Japanese Grant, will ensure
that mitigatory measures are included in the final design. The local



- 3 7 -
government in Ujung Pandang prepared a resettlement plan which was reviewed by
the Bank during negotiations and was found acceptable. Local governments
would agree to follow the RKLs by signing the Project Implementation
Agreements (PIAs). Attachment V of the PIAs lists the environmentally
sensitive subprojects for each local government and, on the basis of the
RKL/RPL, specifies actions to be taken during implementation. The PIAs would
be legally binding documents and the Bank would have the option to suspend
disbursement to a particular local government if those actions were not taken.
Physical contingencies include funds available for additional mitigation works
if found necessary through environmental montoring. As described among the
monitoring arrangements, CPMO would prepar   nnually a report on the
compliance of actual implementation with the RKLs (see para. 4.20).
6.'1      The Irian Jaya water supply subprojects would rely on surface and
groundwater sources which are of very good quality. Some sources would be
abstracted for the first time while others have been used for several years.
Uncontrolled development in the water catchment area of these sources could
cause deterioration of water quality and reduction of natural water discharge.
Therefore control needs to be exercised over land use (urban, industrial,
agricultural development), illegal activities (logging and slash-and-burn
farming) and infrastructure development in the catchment areas. In order to
achieve effective administration, planning and protection of water catchments,
a decree by the Governor of Irian Jaya (SK Governor) was issued which defines:
(a) responsibilities of central, provincial and local agencies; (b)
organisation of watershed management committees to be formed in each of the
eight kabupatens; (c) specific watershed management activities to form the
basis of a management plan; (d) identification of the area to be included in
the watershed mnanagement activities (see Annex 10 for further details).
D. Risks
6.12      The chief risk is that the pace of institutional development is hard
to predict and may not be substantial during the period of project
implementation. This risk is difficult to avoid, since, in view of the
absorptive capacity of local governments in East Indonesia, the institutional
capacity building effort under the project has to be limited. However, the
priority given to implementation assistance and O&M capacity building and to
the availability of adequate resources to finance O&M expenses should ensure
that the flow of benefits from the implemented physical investments will be
sustained.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1       During negotiations, assurances and confirmations were obtained from
GOI on the following principal points:
(a) timely provision of counterpart funds (para. 3.8);
(b) BPAM/PDAM conversion schedule (para. 3.13);



- 38 -
(c)  project implementation responsibilities of participating agencies
(para. 4.6)
(d)  establishment and maintenance of arrangements for: (i) procurement
(paras. 4.9 to 4.12); (i') accounts and audits (paras. 4.18 to
4.20); and (iii) reporting and monitoring (para. 4.21);
(e)  local governments eligible for borrowing under the Bank loan will
maintain minimum debt service coverage ratios of 1.5 (para. 5.6);
(f)  staffing and organization of PHDUs (para. 5.11);
(g)  PDAM debt-equity ratio, debt service coverage (para. 5.13); and
(h)  water enterprise OE&  and depreciation coverage (para. 5.13).
7.2       The following will be conditions of disbursement for each local
government:
(a) signing of PIA acceptable to the Bank for disbursement of central
government contributions (para. 4.7); and
(b) signing of a domestic lending arrangement acceptable to the Bank for
disbursement of on-lent funds (para. 3.10).
Recommendation
7.3       Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
is suitable for a Bank Loan of $100 million to the Republic of Indonesia for
20 years, including five years grace at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.



IMNDONES IA                                                                             ANNEX I
IMDONESIA                                                        ~~~~~~Page I of 2
SlAWESI-I RrAN .JAYA IIRBAN 1WVFT.OPMF.NT PROJFCT
souNsI                      - COS? m ans up  hSIsc l1ilio. lapiu
h&  Cuot              iNKial lear il12!12       IlIKial Iter 1112/93       Iioa iol Year 1113/9H      !iwclal Ter I99419S       7imiatl ow  Iw #               To"al Projt
I 1990 Pries I           Catet price cost           Corret prite coat          CBrreat price cot          Correat price coot         Cemt price cost            owut   prire cut
Lacal fac7ip    Total    Local larmip    total    local Soreip    Tota          L oal  0rein    Total    Lcal hnip i          otal    Lol Fesip    Tstal    Lacl  1g              toLkl
I miwn sonu scm
I Lo  kAcimitij                              I I        0      01       0 1      00       o1l      I        0.0      0.0       0.      00        0       I0         l    01        . 00     0.6      I I        1       0*     01
2 Ciul lark                                   6.8     36      10H4       10      0o.      1-6       2 1     1 2      3.2      4.0      2.3    652        1.3      01.      2.1      0.1      *.4      1.1     911       S.2    14.2
3Iquiwet A Osteriala
l.                11* Ie2  3.3      3.5      e I 0         s            1.1  1.0   12     I.2      0.e      0.71     0         1.0     01      06        0.0      0.1     0.1        02      41      4.1
-La                6 5      31.    10.        I.6     0.9      2.5      4i.      2 7      1.l       1.1     0.1      2.5      0.9      0.S      14       0.2      1.1      0.3     1*1      Sl    1.1
Is barn            03      0.1     01.4       0.1     0.0      0.1      0.1      0.0      0.1      0.1      0.0      #.I      0.0      0.0     0.1       0.0      0.0     0.0       -1       0.2     0.1
S1-total Iulomtt Iuoitwoa                    14.2    11.1    25.1        2.1     3.0      5.0       7.0     5.0    12.0        5.7     4.0      1.1      2.3      1.0      4.3      0.8      1.1     2.0      18.1    I1.1    33.0
S. U  at ~ooot Leve                           0 .0    0.0      6.0       0.0    01.0      0.0       0.0     0.01     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0
I  Icummatal U                                I.0     0.0      00                 . -          0.0 0.  0.0  I I .0   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0       0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0     0.
06total Opeaos  I Uiaitomo                    0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0    I00        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      01.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
fotl War  mplp  latt                         14.2    If a      . I       2.1     3.0      5.0       7.0      5.0    12.0       S.?     4.0      9.7      2.       0.0      4.3      0.1      1.1      2.0     3.1    151    33.0
aiam
L. Lit"ioitim                                 0.1      0.0     0.1       7.1     0.0      2.1       1.5     0.0      1.5       01. 0.0          1.1      1.1      0.0      1.1      0.1    0.        0.1       0.0      0.0     0.0
2 civil                                      66.2    31.6    11.0       Ia.7    10.      22.8      11.5      9.0    27.4      16.6     1.5    2C.1       IS_.I     .8    23n.      IS.$      1.3    24.1       1.A     6.4    120 0
3 Opig.aot a bteriala 
05                 0.1      1.1     1.6       0.0     0.0      0.0       #.I     1.2      1.3      0. 0  0.0         0.0      0.0      0.1      0.7      0.0      0.0     0.0        .1  I .1        2 0
-LO                4.7      2.5     7.2       1.5     1.0      2.3       1.5     0.8      2.3       1.0     0.6      0.C      0.6      0.0      2.0      0.1      0.0      1.5      5 6      3 1     0 I
I m19-Ii            2,      1.3      1.6     103       0.0      0.4      0.7      0.4      1.0      0.0      0.3     0.5       0.5     0.3      0     .1      0    .3      01        20       15      00
"                    0.C     3.?7    00S        2.1     1.1      3.3       I.7     1.1      2.?      1.7      1.0     2.4       0.9     01-      1.5       I1       1       20        I 2      44     12 
wtotl I ook"t h          llwa                6.3    44.6   13; .        21.5      0.2    31.6      23.0    13.2    S.0        21.51 il.3    32.0        I1.      1.17    29.0      I.       11.2    32 7     14 0    W s    ml I
S. US at  "tut WWl 0.6                                4.6    IS.2       2.3      1.0     3.3       2.4     1.1      3.4      2.2      1.0      3.2      2.3      1.1      3.4      2.4      1.1     I.S      11.6      53 1   s 
0  lcnrumal 1                                !0.0 1     .0    M6         1.1     0.6      1.1 1     1.      10       2t.7     2.4      1.4      3.0      3.1      1.0     4.1       3.1      2.2     s1.      12.       1.0    19.0
6l-total oportma   I hirtiac                 21.i   1.0    31.1         3.0     I.C 5.              4.1    2.0       1       4.1      2.4      7.1      1.4      2.9     0.3       6.0      3.3     1.4      23.1    12.2    5.1
Wtotl Otor Setor                            10.7      -11    164.17     24.1    11.1    366        27.0n     15.2    422     2C.1    13.1    J5.1       24.5    13.1    J.1        25.0     1.S     i1    1.2    U11    116.1
lOIIL M1                                    124.0    6S.1   10.1        27.     14.1    42.5      34.0    20.2    542        31.1    11.7    4.6         0.0    IS       4.4      2a.4    15.4    12.1    1.5         3.5    23.7
C. 11ICIL AIST110                            16.1    10.6    26.0        6.5     3.9    10.4       5.3      3.4      1.1      3.0      1.1     4.1       2.0      1.3     3.3       2.7      1.0     4.5      19.6    12.3    31.9
1011.I coM      1                           16.1    76.4   216.5        341.2   1.6       2.9     J5.4    23.6       3.0     34.9    19.4    1.S         1.5    16.9    47         21.1    17.4    6.S       tt.5     K.1    202.0
ilcala tilueies                                                    2.1      1.3     3.4       2.6     1.6      4.2      2.2      1.2      3.4      1.6      0.9     2.S       1.S     0.1      ?.3      10.      5.9    15.9
- Peace costiygeais                                                 0.0      0.7      1.6      2.1      2.0      41t      2.8      2.6     5.4       3.3      3.0     6.2       4.0     3.7      1.1      U3.1     12.0    25 I
#  14-4t 04:33 u               L    prices of  Oct-10



INDONESIA                                                                      ANNEX 1
SULAWFESl-TRIAN jAYA URBAN DEVELIOPME:NT PROJECT                                                                  Page 2 of 2
IIIU JIll                    C 0 eSTIoTliS  ID RlSIlC (lillior hl pist
hep Cot             lincial Tear 1991/92     liuKill fear 1992/93      luaacll TIe  1993/ rlciel feur 14 FUI                mial yew lox 1W TO*l h               t
I Is ices I             Crrt price cost          Carrest pric  coat        Comret price cut            rerat price cast        ere"t price cut         bmdt price cat
locSl Fortip    Total    local  oretigo   Total    lac  Foelp    total    Woal  ereipgl Total    Local  amip    Totl    hee  ferig    Ta                Local hetig    Tsul
I LaW krpimitij                            C 0     0.0     0.0   1-     0.1           so      0.0     0.0     0.0      00       0.0     0.0      tO      OS      00       60      0-0      00       0.  0  O        0.6
2. Cii!l beta                             116      3.6 is 1.         4.2     1.3     5.4      49      1.5     I.S       3.5     1.1     4.7      25 6    L.      3.3      1.0      6.3     1.3     11.      S.1    21.2
3. haiupwut I ateriall_
- 11                eS    1564    16.2    0O4        7.5     7U       e.4      7.5     7.U      0.2     4.2     4.4      0.I      2.      2.1      0.0     6.0     01        1-     22.2    23.3
-to                 1.9     2.6     4.4      01      12      2.0      01       13      22       0.5      .7     1.2       2      6.3     0t        0.I     Li2    0.3       2.s     3.1      0.3
4- iltal aw Swrwlsi llwriu4
4  ai    i S l  a.7 e.2           0.9      0.2     0.1     0.3      9.2      LI1    0.3       0.1     0.0     0.2      0.1    0.0       6.1      0.0     0.      0.6      0.? 7     .2     1.0
btotaI lbnmou    at lpwidirw              15.0    21.      35.0      5.2    10.1    is.?7       4    105    1U.I      4.4    0.1    N05         2.9     3.2     6.1      1.2      1.4     2.6     2.5    31.2    51.
6. U  at earmot Level                      0.0     0.0     0.6       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     6.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      I0    0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0        0.0     0.      00
6. lKcreutall                              0 40    0.0     0.0       00 I    0.0     0.0      00      00I      0.0               I0  0   00       .0     00a     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      .       .
kb-total ilpention I blalesace             006    0.0       0.0     #.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.       0.10    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.6    0.01
Tsua laster SeI Sodar                      15.0    21.6    3.6    56.       10.1    15.7      6.4    10.6    16.0       4.4 U.1    10.6          2.0     3.2    6.1        1.2     1.4     2.0     2.5    31.2    SlT
. enu elm
1. Lid iquaiia                            1.0     0.0     0.0       0       0.0      60       .      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.       0.      0       0         .      0        0        0       0       0.0
2. Civil NMa                                                                                                                              6 0.0          0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    01.0
3. Ijipwst I lteriala -l0                           0.0         0.0      0    .0     0.0      0.0     00      6.*       00       .      0.0      00      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.
-10            0.0~~1-  001    00       0.0     0.0     0.0      00      0 0      0..0    0         ..0      0      0.0     0.      0.0       10.     0.0     0.0      0.0     00      00
4. bus aidSuosoiale.0ri:I.     00      00 00             00      *.*6    10.      0.0     0.I.I00                   00       .        . 0.0  0        .0      0.0      0.0     I.0      0.6     I.0     001
4. siop ad sl.ffimi e*tb
- lu1-ve            0.0     0       0.0      I.0     0.      0.0       0.0     0.0     0.       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0      00       I       00
Wtou Imtant llibm                          1.0     0.1      O.C      0.6    1.1      9.6              9. 1    0.0 D      .      1.1  0. 0        11      1-      #.I      te .                                                      c
6- UafMtCartIl                             0.0     0.0      0 0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      00      0.0      0.0      0.0 6 I I        6               C.)
  lactematal U                 0~~~    ~~.0  00  0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0     00I    0.0       0.0     0.0     I I.     0.0      0.0    0.0      0I       0.0   I00 
ti-tetalpntieaaAhlat.e,egee                0.0       0      0.0-     0.0     0 0     0.0      I0      0.0     00        0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0      00               0.0     0.0
So-ttal Other Secteca                      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0 0     0.0 0   0        00      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0       0.0      10.     00       00      00      00
lOAL MLE     S Wm10    21.6                                 56       5-6    10.1    15.7      4.4 t   0.S    16.9       4.4     60     10.5      2.1     3.2     6.1      1.2      1.4     2.6      1.6   3J.2   5II
C TIUlOlL L3A555T                          4.9     314      03       1.9     1.3     3.2      2.0     1.4     3.3      0.9      0s      1.4    107       0.6     1.1      1.1    104       1.0      6.0     4.1    10.0
MILL C       l                            Dl61   iL  19  25.0   44.9  7.5    11 4    1.9      0.4    11.6    20.2       5.2     4.6 1    .        .      3.7     7.2      1.1      1.1    3.6      20.    25.3    U
InKiod  11:
-  aIcal costliuaas                                            0.7     1.2     2.0      0.0      1.2     2e.      0.6     0.7     1.2      0.3     0.3     0.7      01.      0.1     1.3      2.6     36       6.2
Pnice catiboies                                                0.4     0.0      1.2       7      1.4     2.1      0.6     1.1     1.6      0.6     0.7      1.2      1.3     0.4    0.        2.4     4        .
14-pr 4  A1 41             U    prices f  Bet-%



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
SULAWESI-IRIAN JAYA bIRiAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FiuKing pli
Sillie hpiah
U I  ~  Pn t -- ----e-1-1              -- -----      --------- ),   1  ---- )(-----             Iut ht)
11111~~~~~TO     Hl/m  VWe, ptivt    I                               irm           1" L              ' im        a-M    .ili   s11z LM 
in                                        Changel Sores  lhri   1In           ktiI     fl Iu    soi11I    u           m         nIA   eit
131111                       1.0      0.2     0.2     0.1      1.4     0.0     0.1      0.5     0.3     1.4     2.1      00.     0.6       7.0      4.2
D                           24.6     2.1      0.2     0.3     3.0      1.3     0.3      1.2     0.6     1.1      4.1     0.1     7.1      24.6    1.0
311=                         9.5      1.1     0.5     0.0     0.1      0.3     0.0     0.1      0.2     1.2      3.5     0.2     1.1       9.5      5.3
UIfiTU                      20.4      13      1.3     012      3.5     1.3     0.2      1.1     0.2     1.1      5.6     0.4     3.1       3.4    12.3
n11                          42.6     6.2     4.5     0.3      5.3     1.g     0.4      0.8     1.0      1.9     5.6     1.5    13.2       4.6    24.1
PmIU                        12.6      1.2     1.5     0.0      1.5     0.6     0.1      0.4     0.3     1.2      2.4     0.3     3.1       12.6     7.1
W    W11                    63.1     3.6      3.4     1.4     0.6      4.4     0.7     3.2      2.2     7.2    21.1      0.0     1.1       63.1    31.8
mE                          13.7     1.0      0.1     0.0     2.1      0.0     0.1     0.6      0.4     2.1     3.3      1.3     2.6       13.1     0.0
Nf-N                         5.3     0.2      0.1     0.0      1.3     0.6     0.0      0.3     1.6     0.3     0.3      0.1     0.3       5.0      3.1
w total                    21.1    17.4    12.3       2.2    29.0    12.1      1.0      3.2     5.6    18.9 3   5.0      4.5    3.1    231.1   110.2
Techicul Auuilta            31.3      0.6     1.6     0.0      1.6     0.5     0.1      0.4     0.0     6.5    16.3      0.3     3.3       31.3    21.
Tobl bclWili Owmt U     222.9    to..    13.3         2.2    30.6    12.6      1.9      8.6     5.1    25.5    0.3       4.1    43.0     232.    13.6
Fceatop distvhtiss:        100f      7.11    6.01    0.31   13.11    5.4       0.0     3.7      2.4    11.1   2.51    21.    US.E        1.n       u.5
-  -   -  -  - - - - - - -    -   - -     ---     --- -  -----    - -- ----------  --   -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _
rmt ON1                     16.3     4.1      4.3     0.0     0.0      2.2     0.0     0.1      4.3     1.3     0.0      0.0     0.0      16.3      0.0
Total IKlludlg Ceg IO     243.0    22.1    18.2       2.2    30.6    14.0      1.9     8.1    10.6    26.1    66.3       4.0    43.0     2.1  13.1
Curnmt prie: SIA..- l.  IN               13  total Is t!is table iselliu  0.74 B. Japau'. kut                                            14-hp 03:21 



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
INDXNESIA
SULAWFSI-IRIAN JAVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
liscaieg Plan
Billie   mpish
SimTi                   Project(--------Level 11 --------(-------- lpql-- ---- ------                            el0  ?Mst 
SuUIIS O                                         PAD/Pu  Ouer   Private      IiPUS       lion    A                    AU       1            - _                 i    1       e
Charges Source. IjO    Doeestic bti        P   I       Sl   II31I       mL      MI'              1otal
later Sepply                                33.3    3.6      7.1     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0        0.0      0.0      1.2       0.0      2.2     11.?        33.3       19.?
hraimge                                     37.9    3.0     0.0      0.0    2.9      0.9    0.6        2.3      0.0      6.3     21.0       0.0      0.3       37.9        24.2
Solid last.                                 10.4    0.2     0.0      0.0    0.1      0.0    0.0        0.0      0.0      0.6       1.I      0.Q      6.1       10.4         11
Irns Uante                                   4.3    0.2     0.0      1.0    0.3      0.1   0.0         0.0      0.0      0.3      0.3       0.2      1.5        4.3         2.4
loas                                        34.1   2.2      0.0      1.2  22.0       7.1    1.2        5.6      0.6      1.8     24.2       1.3     10.9       34.1        57.0
liP                                         10.7    3.0     0.0      0.0    3.7      1.2    0.0        0.1      0.0      0.7      2.1       0.0      0.0       107 1       
111p                                         0.9    0.7     0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.1       0.0      0.0        0 9         0
Imeresental 0113                            19.0    4.5     5.2     0.0    0.0       2.7    0.0       0.0       5.1      1.5      0.0      0.0       0.0       19 0        oO      ' 
Tecbniel Asslutance                         31.9    0.6      1.6     0.0    1.6      0.5    0.1        0.4      0.0      6.5      16.3      0.3      3.9       31 9           I
Total IxclWdig Current 013:                232.9  16.0    13.9       2.2   30.6     12.6    1.9        8.6      5.7     25.5     U.3        4.8     43.0      232.9       13.3
Perceutage distriititIO: 100.01   7.11    6.01    0.91  13.11                        5.41   0.11      3.71      2.41    10.91    23.51      2.11   1U.5      10.OS       46.9
ImelWes Japanese Crat $    0.74 .                                                                                                                     W  (milie.)         75.3
Crnent 01o                                  16.9    4.1     4.3     0.0    0.0       2.2    0.0       0.1       4.1      1.3      0.0      0.0       0.0       16.9        0.0
Total IKcludiWg Current 0N:                249.8   22.1    18.2      2.2  30.6      14.8    1.9       6.t      10.6     26.3     66.3       4.3     43.0      249.       13.3
(Current Prices;     U1.  1,645                                          -         -        -                    14- - --    -
14-Apt 10:53 1



I
Vt    L'IB    'L   ~I's   63x    lU    I's    I's         I's    IsB      I's     I's      'Z    IsB      LI'    a  1suSI   ila   '
uu  u's   uu    x~     ~~I's    3.61    I's      I's     I's     I's    z's    u's       I's     I's    aI'        :m1  n11  a       sI"
U      W'I    UBl    S'l        lt'    t'61    S'S    3S        0'S      I'S     S       SB      t'Z    U''      LII       M        1    I
II'S         'S     1    ' SB B'   rS'S  'I--- I' 's---Is--- I' 's ----0'B--- B'S                  ----- 50   B.C -- I'19-- INV U UDNIXII3
*'j     Ij 5.           I's     5'1     go      I's     I's     s's     I's     f#      I's      s's     g.t    g'zstn-
Sl      I'      I's     Is      Ss      I'      I's     I's     I's    SOl       s'l     s      Ies      s'c     I's               o         m
6II      'lI 's~   I's            I I' s 5      S'S     S'S     B'S    I's      I's     I's    I's       5'0    lB-ZBl
E   I's     I's     I's     5'i    I'S      I's     I's    I's    'I'        I's    I's     I's      B'O     I'S                        mIl
91'    Cl9    I's      SS      I's 9    S'     I's     I's     B'S      S'S    S's     I's      I's     S'S     3'                      IllI
SI      I'S     I's     S'S     01i    I'       SBI     B'S     I's     B's     I's      S's     $5      so      1t                        mm
I'll    #1      $'I      ' 55   C I   's        I's     S'I     I's     I's      B's     I's    I's      S'S     51                      Im   NJi
ri   I                                                                                                     ML~~~~~~~SI   33~~   P  U/I
usi mqni~~~       w          ml             U        1                ml   1SWm   3P31ssiM
mmS                                                                              ml    ""i             48 "o       Il
vldq wiltill ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~YA Kl
1LJAfO~11d IWAMAdOIAW   NVR!fl VWXf  WI'JI-I SMYMVfS
C  JO    ave                                                        VIS34OaNII
_                          __                                           __



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 1S
INDONESIA
SULAWESI - IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Following summarizes agreed technical assistance to support the execution of the
project. The first package of bridging consultancy, covers both the Irian Jaya
and the Sulawesi components and is summarized under A. After that, the Sulawesi
TA program is summarized under B followed by the Irian Jaya TA program sammarized
under C.
A. BRIDGING CONSULTANCY
PACKAGE I.
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Assignment Title: Bridging Consultancy Services
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Public Works
Objectives:        Ensure further preparation of the project in Sulawesi and
Irian Jaya until loan effectiveness
Main Tasks:        Support to GOI through Negotiations and Board presentation of
the Project, including coordination of inputs from the local
and provincial governments
-     Prepare   selection   of   consultants   to   provide
implementation services for the project;
-     Supervise establishment of implementation arrangements
prior to loan effec.iveness;
-     Prepare detailed design and bidding document of first
year sub-projects;
-     Prepare PIL and ANDAL studies where required:
-     Develop provincial environmental assessment capacity in
Sulawesi and Irian Jaya.
Qualifications
required:          A team of local and expatriate consultant3 including the
following:
- team leader (engineer/urban planner)
- financial experts
- environmental experts
- institutional experts
- water supply and municipal engineers



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 15
Duration:         About 12 months: January - December 1991
Staffinig:        Consultancy: about 90 manmonths (60 local, 29 foreign)
Costs:            US $ 740,000
Financing of the bridging support would be provided from the Japanese Grant
Facility (JGF).
B. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - SULAWESI COMPONENT
The main packages of implementation support are as follows:
II.  Engineering, design and supervision of all physical subprojects
III. Support for RIAP preparation and MAPATDA installation
IV.  Support for POHKS installation
V.   PMDU (Water Enterprise) advisory support
VI.  Advisory services to Bappeda Tk II for project monitoring and evaluation
VII. Training identification, design and management
VIII.Support to Batch II and III Local Governments for PJM preparation.
Two main categories can be distinguished. Packages II and VI are
engineering/implementation support services, while Packages III, IV, V, VII are
mainly finAncial and institutional development support services.
Two separate groups of censultants, specialized in there respective areas, could
be appointed to provide the requi' -d services. However, all RISOS activities
should be managed by one team lead  . Outline TOR, staffmonths requirements and
cost estimates for Packages II to VIII are attached.
Any engineering services needed for sub-projtects not financed by RDA and APBN
funds will be provided in-house (assisted by local consultants where needed) by
the agencies concerned and costs therefore have been included in the non-water
supply sub-project costs as design and supervision overheads.
PACKAGE II.
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Assignment Title: Engineering, Design and Supervision Services
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Public Works
Objectives:       To execute engineering design and supervision of projects for
the four provincial and nine local governments and PDAMs in
Sulawesi Provinces.
Main Tasks:       Design and supervise water supply subprojects:
-     Soil investigations atd topographic surveys;
-     Preparation of lay-out plans for civil works;



- 46 -
ANNE% 3
Page 3 of 15
-     Determination of pipe alignrments, pumping stations and
connectionq for water supply;
-     Calculatu.  and preparation of technical drawings;
-     Preparation of detailed design specifications bidding
documents and technical specifications for procurement;
-     Preparation   of   detailed   cost   estimate    and
impleoentation schedules;
-     Supervision of execution.
Design and supervision of non-water supply subprojects:
-     Supervision of preparation of detailed design and tender
documents;
-     Assist in preparing of ICB contracts;
-     Assist in bid evaluation;
-     Supervision of execution;
Qualifications
required:         A team of lecal and foreign engineerAng consultants.
Duration:          About 48 months:  December 1991 - January 1996
Staffing:         About 600 person-months (400 local and 200 foreign)
Costs:             US$ 4.98 million
PACKAGES III/A and III/B.
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Assignment Title: Advisory Services for RIAP and LIDAP Preparation and
Implementation
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Rome Affairs (PUOD and Bangda)
Objectivess        Prepare and implement RIAP and LIDAP action plans and expand
installation of the MAPATDA system in the Sulawesi Provinces.
Mtain Tasks: II/A:
^   -  Assist local governments in implemnting the MAPATDA
system( the system has already been installed in Ujung
Pandaig and Manado);
Assist  local  governments  in  implementing  revenue
improvement actions;



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 15
Ill/B:
-     Assist local governments in preparing and implementing
institutional development aLtion plans (LIDAPs);
Qualifications
required:         A  team  of  local  and  foreign  consultants  vith  relevant
experience in municipal finance and public administration.
Durationt          About 18 months: November 1991 - July 1992
Staffing:          Consultancy, about 130 person-months (100 local, 30 foreigp)
Costs:             US $ 1,000,000  (III/A US$ 400,000 and III/B USS 600,000)
PACKAGE IV.
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Assignrmnt Title: Operation and Maintenance Management Support   (POIMS)
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Home Affairs
Objectives:        Expand installation of the POMMS system   in           Sulawesi
Provinces.
Mainr Tasks:       Installation of POMKS in 8 local governments (the system has
already been installed in Ujung Pandang);
Assist local government staff in  performing  adequate O&M
(management, progranming, budgeting);
Qualifications
requireds          A   teas   of local   and   foreign   consultants   including
mnicipal engineers and management consultants.
Durations          About 18  onths (November 1991 - July 1993)
Staffing:          Cousultancy, about 140 person-months  (128   local and 12
foreipg).
Costs              US $ 760,000
PACKAGE V.
OUTLINE TEMS OF UFmNCZ
Assignment Titles Advisory Services Provincial Monitoring and Development UnLts
(PHU).
Implel nting Agencys    Ministry of Public Works



- 48 -
AMNES 3
Page 5 of 15
Objectives:        Develop  and  strengthen  the  recently  established  PMDU  in
Sulavesi provinces and guide local water enterprises of the
project towns to improve O&M and management.
Main Tasks:        To further develop the recently established PMDU in Sulawesi
Provinces;
To provide training in network analysis and eakage control;
To assess maintenance needs of water enterprises involved in
the Project;
To develop 'on the jobs training capabilities in PMDU;
To  train  PMDU  staff  in  financial  analysis,  financial
management and tariff analysis.
Qualifications
required:          A  team  of  local  and  foreign  consultants  including  the
followings
- water supply engineers
- leakage control experts
- financial experts
Duration:          24 months (November 1991 - July 1992)
Staffing:          About 130 person-months (96 local, 34 foreign)
Costst             US$ 990.000 (US $ 410,000 from loan, US$580,000 from domestic
funds)
PACKAGE VI.
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Assignment Title: Implementation assistance to Tingkat I and II to Monitor and
Evaluate IUIDP Sub-projects.
Impleenting Agency:    Ministry of Public Works.
Objectives:        Implementation of a Monitoring and Evaluation System at local
level.
Main Taskst        To  implement  the monitoring  system  at  the moment  being
developed for East Java - Bali UDP;
To assist the Bappeda Tingkat I and II in performing the
required M&E tasks:
To assist local governments in the annual updating of the PJM
(expenditure program), financing plan and RIAP).



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 15
Qualifications
required:          A team of local and foreign consultants including:
- Project Support Manager
- Project Support Co-managers
Duration:          60 months (November 1991 - October 1996)
Staffing:          Consultancy, 145 person-months (100 local, 45 foreign)
Costs:             US $ 1,200,000
PACKAGE VII/A
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Assignment Title: Consultancy Services for the Preparation of IUIDP for Batch II
and III Local Governments in Sulawesi Provinces.
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Public Works
Objectiv~es:       IUIDP Preparation for Batches II and III Local Governments.
Main Tasks:        Assist in preparation of PJM and financing plans for Batch II
and III local governments
Qualifications
required:          A team of local and foreign consultants with the following
expertise:
- municipal engineering
- water supply engineering
- municipal finance
- water enterprise finance
- urban economics
- urban planning
Duration:          About 12 months (November 1991 - October 1992)
Staffing:          Consultancy services: about 135 person-months (100 local, 35
foreign)
Costs:             US $ 1,000,000
PACKAGE VIIB.
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE
AssigDnment Title
and Objective:    Development of urban strategies for fast growing areas of
Sulawesi and Irian Jaya
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Public Works



50
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 15
Qualifications
required:         A team of local and foreign consultants with expertise in
regional urban planning, urban economics and land use
management
Duration:          About 12 months (November 1991 - October 1992)
Staffing:          Consultancy about 75 person-months (63 local, 12 foreign)
Cost:              US$ 500,000
PACKAGE VIII.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Assignment Title: Training Identification, Design and Management
Executing Agency: Ministry of Public Works
Objectives:        Identification of training needs of the 9 Local Governments
involved in the Project. Preparation of outline TOR for the
design of training courses and materials.
Main Tasks:        Identification of training needs
-     Preparation of outline TOR for the design of training;
-     Assistance to the IUIDP Training Project to design the
required training program;
-     Management of the training delivery.
Qualifications
required:         A  team  of local training experts
Duration:          About 12 months (November 1991 - October 1992)
Staffing:          Consultancy, about 90 person-months.
Costs:             US $ 500,000



&NNIX 3
rage A of 15
-   IRIAN JAYA WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
SUISEARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
"here are Sour nac'-.aees rroposec
Project Management Unit/Project Ieplesentation Unit Support
The project will  include technical assistance for proJect implementation.
This will primarily include the provision of local and foreign consultant
assistanie to the Project Management Unit (PMIJ) which will be established
within the Provincial Water Supply Project Offtce  (PPSAB) Jayapura.   The
advisers to the PMU will also support and assist the Project Implemenitation
Untts (PIU) to be established In the project towns.
ObJectives
The assistanice to the PMIU will cover two ain areas.
(a)   Overall project manigement, organisation and coordination to be carried
out on a province wide basis from Jayapura.
(b)   More direct inputs to the PIUs within the sub-project towns related to
the effictent. execution of physical works and associated administration
and support  functions.    Staffing  for this work will  be based  in
.avaptira but will involve extended periods in the other sub-project
townis - particularly the major towns of Sorong. Manokwari and Blak.
The key objectives for Part (a) above are to assist the PMU with:
o     Overall project implementation planning and technical coordination:
o     Financial monitoring, review and problem solving covering budg'evting.
expenditure and reimbursement:
o     Monitoring, review and problem solving in the areas of procurement.
construction and handover;
o     Coordination of PIU reporting and operations;
o     Liaison with the World Bank and Cipta Karya.
The key objectives for Part (b) above are to assist the PlUs wlth:
o     Management of physical and financial progress including monitoring.
review and problem solving;
o     Review and evaluation of contractor's tenders and design detaila;
o     Training In contract administration Including quality control. contract
coor,iination. work schedullng, establishment and maintenance of "as-
constriucted" documentation systems:
o     Training in syRtem testing and commissioning:



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 15
oI     ,II- t    i0 l t ;1i inci t)f  B4P\Nm  PIDA! s tla tf '110  fp)Crait orI,
n, 1 nI  ,t j    I  )
.1imen  tI '3- to) I'ui t' 1 ') '   No(l- p t hn t  tI h P>M Ii  I I Iront, i ne at V r  t hi q  t I me hilt.
hi t IIOLI t t l1t' PM 'Il ;V, i -;L. I 
Perann-Mnnth  P
Ille t'sl ithi Ied R! 8It M  '.5 rI         mit  iII the *5i  t tihe'-d Tablit A1. 1 .  lI  summarv
*o      |"X*)sl                                       70                 person-months
, O'.1                                              170                  person-months
1 hli' t1s lfIlati'd  *si    1t1h1.  thiti-             of tti thi'A  (in  current  prices i  is
io 4,151 or US$ 2.25 rvillion.
EAI'i -i        ''i _.  ., i?S i-lll!t pi,l ,, rl  plVOe''''t Ti"J1efl'zt!'lt' 'it 011
Tiht  ahthiv,  eftin%.itv.s  for  TA  incliide  the  provision  of  support  personnel
I  i1   .jt iS .        h  lrou'  I  mi opetjl orIi S e tr  f or thie consuil tauit personnAel , andi
xli, i ii   ttitiRi lellit  ;II( Ii  1i Xiil tmPn s      Speci.7list  eiu i pment  for  pro ject
i j 1' ) .n1) ill  1    t  ,!l)) i iII,' 1 H  I ne I iidtt    il7 tho  ye) I vant pr'ortUrenipit and 'uP1
i   t iVii:t i ( iol  t I  eli I s
it Ir a-ziimeri that GtlI will IItiR  oXiS1 inq of ficosi f'or acc  mmoi(at ing the PMU andi
.J iis".  i rA  I. I Il' ,.l f i    1 .l( i I ie I     are il,emrnti to hpe ihnt:luded  in Part A of the
PACKAGE X
UPW Task Force
Il  41, ,1;    1w ii    ! .b-uv      i ic'n  Ih -i-*I  is pi needt for extensive  day  labour works
fo    I-iji s to) ox isl il' 1ii'el iunes and  servtce  connections  to  reduce  leakage
Nid(  iviwo-o-*- cniOl!ii'r rArvIrp,  .\ttontinn  will also  be  paid  to  moeter reading
ai,,l    1  jell ,,e*ede.         Th i.s work. which will he concentrated  In  the  first
{' v't'.iu''       1   i he pt-c Ied    mho(itid prneeted  in  p)irall1       with  thet constricttion of
new works.
tilhill iplicitV  of t;Isks a1id1 the  difficuiltv  in precise scope  definition  mean
that t?e'soe woi't's dtie not 9uitet1 to exeoution bv contract.   It is proposed that
each  W,5At'   entt, lpris    wi l   establish   a  separate   task   force   Including
;Mop x!ltrVois ae(i tiadeuxi-i,a.  Thpse plers-onnlp] will in the  longer term  become the
wiilotfioan.    Rtoiff  of  the  t7xnanded  WEs.    The  Wrs wouild  he  paid  for  work
Uli1 t'Ci atkt' I IIV'   he  Task  Forpe  oll an  agrreed  sohedule  of  rates  basis.   The
Hc?ie,lm -e rl S   l,piIs woild t nted i to  he strurti repd to  provided an  incentive for the
WFs  to  i!nrlertnke  the  wnrk  bhv  dav  labotir  rather  than   by  contract.    The
3)ll.1 ij 'is unil eqjili pmelit Ior 0'4e by 1 hf Task Force will be procurred under the
fPlI4,lXn peurcelremient packeu;les.  A separate LCR package Is proposed earlv in the
propct tto  ensure  that kep   materials  are available  as soon as possible  aftpr
commPncmernt of  Implementatlon.



-53 -
AWINKX I
Page 10 of 15
Oh i        vctoi.s
T'Ii  It jh r i i vs  tit   li his  TA  apo  to  IassiSt  the  WFs  with  the  estah Iishment  and
i'lit'i dli ol o-if r,ask  Frote  itct ivities  including  the  following:
iPit I i f i -t i,zl  11iii olt'oaramifi t uif of iorks:
I- i-I mv id  iv II,im 'ilp iiud advice  on  uiaintenn.nce  anid  repair  techniques;
,,  I , II, AI   1silliljt. j  till  in ti est 1 ando     ek  diete.et lo
p I \ Il tI l  I  jfI it' I0jlil  tl iI)l-l''it-d metor' rui,linf' and  hiling  procedures:
S) %,!      l  tlt   I IJF I'I  1  ll.ic(t!  11mil)    i tur. ilile
1 h   v. en ,t    - I "; i    ('1 ol p 11 iOli  -illtd ,iOntpniace-  slal I he  dir?ctetd  towards short
I't 1)  Vii il t j  ii Its wl;i11  re tsIIl t  I n  improvetld  standards  of service
it@'li ' 1-l9.    'i'-.91   l)i-(ms,iitt_'  iuifid(,pnc  viAter   sales   anid   collectJon
itfit-f   iqnit s:                    *IS    uossible    after    commenicement    of    project
'l itj SPI   ... ..- . ivmllti is  pin. jis-l  il) a]l  towns blut th      lemplhasis would be In  those
tohliS  ti w 1m Whi t1lt'O   *uta  siviiificant  rehabilitation  components.    These
ii' iWi, .I'.I-ii ;                  Hii ke.   I  .  N;jhiHre. Fik  Fak  anti  Wamena.   For Serui  and
i Ii' 1   ni) -pio io, !       )lse j   are  fr()  essential Iv  new  water  supp]y
.. .I    N.nsi-,t I,   .s    htsl,v  wsill II1    sone   rehabil     l tation   of   existing
i : ,   i 1 nn:- oll t.n- - iJIJ tl :i inmlL    Wi I I  he provided with  a view to establishing
,n *--+t) II47  l i h   rOti H? iI ' intl I intttI  i  r ljpoe'afliS.
2    ,, ..> ,     t~ r Is1i,l    lln.r 11t.\ is  2           FeiI I. Fowllw-p) assIsta(ce  aind support
':. j     i t    4  )t  I\    il 1 ii.'    t   PI    I W  I[
Person-Month Requirements
10w is i iii I'l. l ni.in-nion ihs are sot onil. iii tlie attached  table.   ln s wiumarv tho
'Il i  )lti& z    it. s tiii ?t I'zt
bov  I-iv                                       17                  person-months
Os 1.0*f4                                     52                  person-months
(uwSt Fst Wllch-
1h, e  t-!1 I ,l ;il I sisI   I Ic   this  eoipn,Iiln    orf  I1h    l'A  (in  current  prrices    is
Hp 1,033 million or US$ 560,000.
11  iN ds-sl ih-d 'I  I i.1  Ilit T.'-ii k inF IIt sln l s    ants will USe1   the same offices as the
PM1P as/i  wi?    i i ,   l k  Iiini trl,e W  's offices.
Eqil Thili  I i.i  I h, , I]FW  Task  Forrp  wi l l  he  provided  tinder  an  LCB  procurement
paik*Afe  toI be 1lil  iuimedilteiv  fol Iowing  loan  effectiveness.    Computers  and
other  siupport equipmPent  shall he   provided  inder  the  TA.



54  -
ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 15
PACKAGE XI
Provincial Monitoring and Development Unit
A PMOIt I iid lit- em-I ib ish#,ill ini T'ian  Java  in accordanee with  the  established
I; O it      lni I   II i   i t'I.o fu.!  s:t to IeIpvfa Io[ment
Thv it iotc ixvw-  nif tile  I-MIh mi-e nis  follows.
n       Pin  iw  ,,f    ini,tt i il.  ,  tim tiisttat.ive and  technical  coidiition  of  WEs by
cm'   i'I ,!,   i, vs Iit") tho mttoni hiv reports  Aul)mitted  by  tlhem.
O x           p1, . iStJ 'if Wi- prrm tcnm.rune atl(i the  iflenttificationn of shortcomings  and
Pr ro'I, is iot,    fii Iei?11, Ia .il  inistrat IIe   teehn ical  and  managerlal. and
firvf !im il i,i,dJ px!t-tt ist  in *i-der  to assist  the d,evelopment  of WEs.
O       Ait;11' 1! \'i .if f i lolloi a I   d I pelen i    Ic    iif ormat ioni rpeeived with regard to
1i1;t,i  ilp,!  tillP.sL. hnfl  .1t WE and  proviriciii level. and reporting to  the
P,r'.il-ioln an1 C6-11',;1                     oiv'1mnrients  n) progress  in  relation  to  targets
cif,t;w l!t' t' Wi l 11  1t I1 ii-in of  ic,t Jion  plans as  rpquiired.
o)     ?Pi      < iwt Im1 I let Iiv rfm')Its anti stat ist iral  information  to  Provtncial
,,,,   ( 1it  ;T t; t i 1 hi    i ti   a1s iliutit I he keyv  slpecttS  of  the  provincial urban
vist m  i.icpn-i   9',1-     aRmi the performacllep of  individual  WEs.
*      s&  it .g.:    !  e.    i st mice.  it, prtpmr iny  necessarv  i1hantgre        in  tariff  levels
.wd   Il 1:wi-t ,1M.rse,n.  h\, I h    wali>r Pni Pi-prisps.
ro        1   It 0i't i J, orvo. nrin I itivoe rn'r:t iaroposals and  appraisal  of same.  not
*,)1k.  leit!  1tt  I   it) Iritoia  of  terchnl"al  an,t financial  soundness.  but
, li       It ., I   i   nw  natiomal  and provincial targtets  and  priorities.
'tl ,,,I  is ;it inflorno;itilln  tentrte  and( an  intermediatorv  for the  exchanf'e
,itil d is4sni     I otmli   of  rnew/ Imirovpoved  niet liods,  svstenis  and  procedures
ciIv'  'ii\;   if) Il'hdnil W; 'j  slipt!)lv.
o)      I.iiu to     nu"l   ti.'ol.tlifatiol   with   the   reP,ionia   trainilng   centre   In
I fi-!r  I I fvv    1f I   li i nv  imeeds. overitt s i nq training  events  and monitoringiq
!,t'i r       t t1.1u'mrd(i  t ra i Iitg objiel ives.
ProOi i  I)i    utf    iss i t alnep    in    organ i sat ion,          coordinlation    and
iti.:t.1i':t. 111  ot oPf cotmtniunitv inforniat In progirams and improvement of
h, If VI ",II I ti-I Ii i)IIS.
I Prov i; i on  uf  I pchn i  a l cuipcport  to  WF  in  areas  where  kabupaten  based
Pxptorl ise  ta^ntiot he- prvided  eoonomitcall ]V.  for  example  electrica'l and
mehAnicaiiFl  ntiIin n      ni no and spec ialist  proccrrlelnnt .



55
ANNEX 3
PFage 12 of Y5
I t  is  Fiv,-mn#-tl  I itat  ;irrmnopomtnts  for  pst Ail)w  i slimeiit  of  t he   PMDIJ  wi Il Ibe
tndtr.rtlikon dUi incy tho,'  f i'st \'eoir u,f tl ie  llroj(et.  Thp TA comjponnnt of prolect
wi  I I   fiiil(i   I hte    I  )I  i,wi II,
(  )     I       t li ,11\  i t  i- iiI  lIIe  (ii' t  ' i  lt  i  F,   y 2     peir l's of PMI)U D ) peYat i on :
(Ii I     linni    ,rc It    tt for the  ti rst, 'I Vefar l,'      ouperatinn  inc ldiding  salaries  for
111i fit Sl ;1l I   off le  iIimiTi)  rosts  :ilind  tt'ave1 .
tar -ili i       o',   I' hMI OliW  o il, lq I in'y l)'ii (iti vptri% es  awrll eqtiipment will be
0l't1' 1t4}l ,1X114    P ;ill s     I -if lIn-F,-l(i,,.
Person-Month Requir-ements
It is estimated that 24 person-months of foreign consultancy assistance is
required. This wouild be provided by a senior adviser in water enterprise
operation and managem.ent, 18 person-months, and other (unallocated) technical
specialists, 6 person-months.
i Ii ,  t-I 11i Il (i I, t   u   i I  i xs t-willmilfiel)l of the TA  (in current prices) is set (ut
Itf if1w
1 *i~~~~~~~~ it iw~~~~~itR
PNIl    i'                                       I                                       793
(ThIl t ;i ,,1v' !IlIS I 
;g   ())*' t,1 Oi f lJ v     ,I)F I II F.
*   n\i-1ii'i I' ,,,      <a ffl li'       539i
-       l1)'l j ret 111110l1 lltJ              1 rfi
[Ia'.| I rugSts  til  s irt f         4:32
1.124
l()iAI, 6is I h  }                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~1.917
or US$ 1,!39,n2O
(If  I he    I -. It r      itii  1  i, is  itidii1  fr,im  thte  IBRI)  loan.    l'he  esentliJlv
'e'Y  +lt   r'.  tit i M11i  operXil ion  are  fiNndold  from    Oi6   sotirtes  IDIP  Murlit).
PACr(AGE YTT
Water mntetprise  Staff Training
I i, pl'   i-' Itk   I I1 ,I)II Ii Iht -   to I 1lhIj  seelor wide  HRlD  UsiiiF trutrilln iup  resoures
fii *ve b tOil  ;'iile1 1ci  I     He fiilai Rs otirces  Development  Project  (HRDPI.   The  stub-
pri if'cl wi I I foll thf di iert traininFi o  costs of recipients  fromn the  Ii ian  .Ja,a
Oh (',t (Vc.i
7 o    p,midv  1r.i0nino  to some400  Trian .Java WE staff to  he rondiuctedi undor  the
huspiclees of tl(p   HRIIP.   Traini iwr wonild hp  inc I  dle-d  for
o       DIrectors  of  WEs  and  other  pprsonnel  requilring  special  facilitits  at
the  National Training  Centre  in Jakarta:



- 56 -
.UNEX 3
"'aae 3!o   1is
S*11iOI Ot    eiStUIi'e     it  I It)  li  U oi(thA1   i't;t in I jL         (  iet ve    in   (iTl  n   Pandang:
o          N0~ ~ii 1 Mll;id'et's           S                      aiii     admilnistrat  ve.  ;l-   rica1   stat ff    in
.i,,iV1b1'IId A   II., IIIs  (r m  I,    Ii  it?S   I)'E)ViIf- (I  as4  Ila  t  of  t lie  PM)U 
Thle' e:i iIll.te*'I i '4I':.  ni   tim,  iii It^:.  I tiii liiv  cwsts  are  set  out  below   in   current
M_il wr
1,111 1 rglb I 1 1 ,1t ti4) I I   . (  h'; t||   is  I e  I I c ( f ,t a  II (I                                 1230
A                          t  It iIv ii i  MIs 1t.    i .i  i ont 
iti11i  t 1',t i bIwrs                                                                                             190
oI O       :I   1 "l   i I   R                                                                                   370
or US$ 200,500



-              7   -                                     -                        D      . - - -' - --
en                   0.'                                                                                                  c'J
-4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
-    0.. ~  ~        ~        ~                 ----                  
'Icr-_                                        _                                                        +                   __               4|
-- -   -----     -                 l |   -- -     ------C'------    -                         ---- -  --                          -'
I-
2  _-  __'                                           U-     -                                                                   *       f   _-tLggE_e_
I                                                     *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
*   n       8                                                                                                                           *     5    ;X!    
S      ~_s_I  -_-_ --                    ----------___     



- e- gI _  ---S-------------------------------- - -
f~~~~~                                   9 ge IS Aew   Xt  Zw   owfg   Sg!gg_    rD
;-  I|\ ii 5                                                          KXjwI  - *
9  WI
1l ti it  l0i!  i                        1   i111i;   i                             
|  co  !  c   !!         -               '-4 -_
iA                                                                                           -44y ____________________------ 
I------    --                     
-     - - -  -  -   - -  -   -   -  - -   -  -   -   - -  -   -  -     
--     - - - - - - - - - - S-- - - - - - - - - -- . -a  -  .0 - - - -     -.  -   -    -a ---



- 59 -
INDONESIA                                    ANNEX 4
SULAWESI-IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                       Page 1
IDmplementation Arrangements
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE SULAWESI COMPONENT
PROGRAM EM.ENT               1992    1992     199      94    1995    196
1. P,-Pi  ---                                                             -
1. Pr,pm Phymiuil Implm..eeatise-                         -        - 
1.1  W                                  -    -    -
- d.am d &4,u xx m                                  xx       x
-_k d.wexie pma sea                 3x  X-
- lad  isio xe_
- p_awineM  of eq*"*.                xx _e n          M   x        xxx -
- _ivil OO&Anmw6So                   xx _        xx xxua  xu.
- Dmu,in  sa                             xxx-             m     _xxx       =
|   - L&      m                             -o le            -       -
1,2   S*W~ Wus" Diqoml
D tared  efsig   p               xx   X=           x =      xm   xx      x
-~~ -iA e e                                 -      -_        -       -_
- DwiAX   dOf.                    x        xxx    m           m  .  xx
-Civa WerE Ce L-Molie      m       _  cxm x xs    xxxxn xxx0       xxxx m
1.3   DUtia-_
- DaaW i ma                      xx       xx              xxx Ux
- Civi Wotb C    eniu              3rn ex           mX     = xxxx  mx xxx  xxx
1.4   Uuba RweD.
- Debilad ds       xx  m                          3- xx
- Civi Wodo C@oa i.,              _= _m xx                 xmm    xxx Wm  m
1.5   HRusesWasoDiapml
- Dowaoid                        mmgax    mm              mm      xmm
- Ci4i Wogim coewiuwtiom           X mm   mm 3mm         mm MM 3= mm
1.6n  KW   d MM
- Dowled Wmn  xxx                             xxx         3= _  -x
- Civi Woda  Ceausaew.             mm   ex mm  mxx xum xxm  xxx xx xxx
2. _uaation of MAPATOA                          m
S.  1AU0606 Of POWS                         x  xm
4. T.-saidl A__ w 
A.1   Daidsia. C*  Svi                  x-x                -               -=
A.2    fEiwa. DD A  Suvasee
intWw  aply                          sx  m          x z        x x    x
A.S   E _imio  DD    vS m                 -
bi w_uI sW *                              3s        s x      x x     x x
A.4   Adwvay &Simm  MAPATOA                  x  x
A.S   Adviey Smwam POIS                      x  xx
A.6    dvemy Slvam  PMDU                     xm.-
A.7   Advi_w    w   to TX D               -  
one Mgiwgimg & Ev,haai.               xx  xxm       x x      x x     x x
A.S   PpWustift ofsw boo   madW 
L.oa vsw                              X. m__
A.9   Tnie*ia W06.2iSm~e    Desigm        - I                                    
a Mmus.ep                              xi x



- 60 -
ANNEX 4A
Page 2 of 2
INDONESIA
SULAWESI - IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Arrangements
Implementation Schedule
Irian Java Component
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
Source development                       xx   xxix
Treatment facilities                     xx   XXss   xxix xxr;
Pumping stations                         sx xxxi
Transmission mains                       xx   sxss   ----
Distributon mains                             sxs   xxx    xxxrss
Service reservoirs                       xx   xxxs    xxxs     mx
Service connections                           xxxi   xxx-    xXxi    xxxi     xx
Other facilities                         xx   xxxs   xxx    xxxs   xxx x
Land acquisition                xxx xs
Note: Schedule is indicative only for all eight project towns and shows
generalized start, length and sequence of program elements. Activities
in specific towns may vary up to 18 months from above schedule.



- 61 -
ANNEX 4B
Page 1 of 9
INDONESIA
SULAWESI - IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. Project Implementation Arrangements
SULAWESI Component
A. Implementation Arrangements
Introduction
1.        In accordance with Law Nr. 5/1974, Law Nr 13/1980 and Government
Regulations nrs 26/1985, 1411987 and 6/1988, specific implementation
responsibilities for the infrastructure sub-sectors covered by the
Project in the Sulawesi provinces have been assigned to the three tiers of
Government.
2.        At local and provincial government level project implementation
responsibilities and arrangements have been further defined based on the
principle that existing structural agencies are assigned specific
responsibilities for implementation tasks, where necessary assisted by
specific units to be established supporting these organizations and by
consultants attached to these organizations.
3.        The establishment of new functional units separate from the struc-
tural organizations has been avoided. Similarly, project implementation
will utilise existing processes and procedures to the maximum extent possible,
adding only coordination mechanisms where these are as yet insufficiently
developed for the purpose of effectively implementing the project within the
above legal and institutional framework. It is considered that in tnis way,
project implementation will make a maximum cont ibution to strengthening the
institutional capability of Tk I and Tk II organizations.
4.        The proposed implementation arrangements as set out below have to be
considered as a general model to be modified according to local conditions.
The proposed organizational structure and arrangements are shown on Figure
4.A.
B. Implementation Responsibilities of Local Governments
5.        The IUIDP Steering Committee, as a non-structural body, is
positioned directly under the Kepala Daerah. This Committee will be
responsible for the overall coordination and suP-tvision of project
implementation.  The chairman would be the Mayot .r Sekwilda.  Vice chairman
and secretary are proposed to be respectively the Sekwilda or Head of Bappeda
and the Head of Bappeda or Fispra of Bappeda. Members are the heads of the
departments involved in IUIDP. Steering Committees have been established in
all 9 TK II covered by the Sulawesi Component.
6.        The Regional Development Planning Board (Bappeda) within each Tk II
government will be responsible for day-to-day program management. Main



- 62 -                         ANNEX 4B
Figuro 4a            ~~~~rage 2 of
SULAWESWIRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
(SULAWESI COMPONENT)
Organzation Structure
co PUOD                  BAENS
M AM                                      DOBWU  
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KI
.................    . .............. .................... ,. 
* ~~~~~cr           a~Dr 
= nuCTURtAL
L _ C^OX
- W6TRUCTON
TEN        K I TKP
-U'   M



- 63 -
ANNEX 4B
Page 3 of 9
functions are the preparation of a multi-year IUIDP Program and coordination
and monitoring of implementation as well as annual budget preparation. For
this purpose a small local Project Monitoring Office (PMO) will be established
directly under Bappeda.
7.        A Local IUIDP Team (Tim Teknis P3KT Tk II) under the authority of
the Bappeda is to assist to carry out this responsibility. This local IUIDP
Team will have representation from all concerned Tk II departments responsible
for elements of IUIDP implementation. Due to the nature and periodicity of
coordination activities, this Team will function as a working group and meet
on an ad hoc basis only. Tim Teknis P3KT TK II have been established in all 9
TK II.
8.        A small Project Finance Office (PFO) will be established under the
authority of the Finance Division in the Sekwilda's Office, which will
disburse project funds, prepare reimbursement requests, maintain expenditure
accounts and prepare financial progress reports and annual statements of
accounts.
9.        Non-water supply projects will be implemented by the Dinas PU and
Dinas Kebersihan (if any). The Local Water Supply Enterprise (Perusahaan
Daerah Air Minum, PDAM) will be responsible for the water supply sub-sector.
10.       The Revenue Office (Dinas Pendapatan) will be responsible for
reaching the targets for local revenue generation set in the financing plan
under the overall supervision of the Local Government Secretary (Sekwilda).
The Legal (Bagian Hukum) and Administrative (Bagian Ortala) Divisions of the
Sekwilda Office will be responsible for the institutional arrangements
required for Project implementation.
11.       The procurement will be carried out under the authority of the
Development Division (Biro Bangda) of the Sekwilda Office.
12.       Provincial and national subprojects (if any) are carried out by
deconcentrated agencies from higher levels of government.
C. Implementation Responsibilities of Provincial Governments
13.       An IUIDP Steering Committee, as a non-structural unit, is positioned
directly under the Governor. The Committee's tasks and responsibilities would
be to manage, coordinate and supervise Project implementation and to provide
policy guidance. The chairman would be the (Vice) Governor, Sekwilda or Head
of Bappeda Vice chairman and secretary are proposed to be respectively the
Sekwilda, head of Bappeda or Fispra of Bappeda. ?lembers are the heads of the
departments involved in the IUIDP program.
14.       The Bappeda will be responsible for day-to-day management of project
implementation with the following functions:
-    to assist local governments in IUIDP implementation including
preparation of related funding requests;



- 64 -
ANNEX 4B
Page 4 of 9
to monitor and evaluate overall progress of project implementation
of all local governments;
to coordinate all IUIDP activities at provincial level.
15.       A Provincial IUIDP Team (Tim Teknis P3KT Tk I) will be established
under the authority of the Bappeda to assist to carry out this responsibility.
This IUIDP Team will have representation from all concerned Tk I departments
involved in IUIDP implementation. Due to the nature and periodicity of its
coordination activities, this Unit will function as a working group and meet
on an ad hoc basis.
D. Implementation Arrangements at Central Government Level
16.       At Central Government level Project speci.fic responsihilities have
been defined in line with structural responsibilities of the Departments
concerned as described below.
17.       BAPPENAS will assist in synchronizing IUIDP, as part of Repelita V,
with other national development programmes. It also plays a major role in the
annual budgeting process and will assist in ensuring the Central Government
contribution (APBN) for the IUIDP Program. BAPPENAS chairs the Inter-
departmental Coordination Team for Urban Development (Tim Koordinasi
Pembangunan Perkotaan - TKPP) which has been established under its authority
in early 1987 to ensure a smooth, well coordinated, planning, programming and
implementation of urban infrastructure programmes. BAPPENAS also supervises
the IUIDP Management Group (IMG).
18.       The Directorate GeneLal of Public Administration and Regional
Autonomy (PUOD) within the Ministry of Home Affairs (Depdagri) will provide
general supervisory support ior the Project with respect to adequacy of local
government staffing, budgeting, financial capability and execution of Project
responsibilities.
19.       The Directorate General of Regional Development (BANGDA),
particularly its Directorate of Urban Development (Direktorat Bina Pembangunan
Perkotaan) will provide supervisory support with respect to the planning,
programming and implementation of local development projects. More speci-
fically, Directorate General Bangda will be responsible for the
administration, supervision and support of INPRES-funded project components.
20.       The Directorate General of Budget of the Ministry of Finance
approves and provides all central government (AFJ'!) budget allocations for
IUIDP through its Directorate of Development BudLc t and Directorate cf State
Wealth Development and Other Budgets, which administers the routine SDO
(Subsidi Daerah Otonom) grants to local governments.
21.       The Directorate General of Monetary Affairs through its Directorate
of Investment Funds (DDI) will develop and administer the subsidiary loan
agreements (SLA) with local governments and enterprises.



- G' -
ANNEX 4B
Page 5 of 9
22.       The Centre for Financial Analysis ot Local Government assists in
formulating policies and guidelines on matters related to local government
finance. The Directorate General of Taxation administers national taxes. Of
major importance to the Project is the Directorate for Property Tax (PBB),
which sets policy and manages the tax-object identification, assessment,
collection and revenue sharing of the property tax.
23.       The Ministry of Public Works is the technical department responsible
for the development of the Urban Infrastructure Sector. Its Directorate
General of Human Settlements (Cipta Karya) is responsible for the development
of Water Supply, Drainage, Sanitation, Solid Waste Disposal, KIP and Market
Infrastructure Improvement. The Directorate of Urban Roads Development
(Binkot) in the Directorate General of Highways (Bina Marga) is responsible
for the development of urban roads. These agencies, through their provincial
offices (KANWIL), will provide technical guidance to lower levels of
government regarding the subsector within their area of competence in the
Project, will administer the sectoral grant budget (APBN-DIP) for those
subsectors and will implement subsectoral Project components considered a
Central Government responsibility within the framework of Government Regula-
tion 14/1987.
24.       The directorate general of Human Settlements (Cipta Karya) in the
Ministry of Public Works will be designated as the Project Executing Agency,
supported by the other central government agencies exercising their structural
responsibilities as described above. the local governments and local
government enterprises involved in the Project will be designated as the
Project Implementation Agencies.
25.       At central government level, policy guidance and coordination will
be provided by TKPP which will act as the central interdepartmental steering
Committee for the implementation of the project. as Executing Agency Capita
Karya will arrange for overall coordination and monitoring through its Central
Project Monitoring Office (CPMO) and Central Project Finance Office (CPFO).
26.       At provincial government level policy guidance and coordination will
be provided by the Provincial Steering Committee. As noted above, the
necessary coordination and monitoring will be carried out by the Bapenda Tk I
and by the IUIDP Team Tk I.
27.       At local government level policy guidance and coordination will be
provided by the Local Steering Committee chaired by the Mayor/Sekwilda Tk II,
while day-to-day coordination and monitoring will be the responsibility of
Bappenda Tk II and by the IUIDP technical team supported by PMO and PFO.



- 66 -
ANNEX 4B
Page 6 of 9
INDONESIA
SULAWESI - IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
II. Proposed Implementation Arrangement.
Irian Jaya Water Supply Component
A. Organizational Structure for Implementation
1.        The proposed organizational structure for implementation of the
component is shown outlined in Figure 4.B.
2.        Responsibility for the management of the project rests with the
Ministry of Public Works (MPW) through the Directorate General of Human
Settlements (Cipta Karya), and specifically the Directorate of Water Supply
(DAB). Within the Province of Irian Jaya, DAB is represented by the
Provincial Water Supply Project Office (PPSAB) which has been established in
Jayapura for several years. A Project Management Unit (PMU) would be
established under PPSAB and this PHU would be directly responsible for day-to-
day management of project implementation.
3.        The Ministry of Home Affairs through the Directorate General of
Public Administration and Regional Autonomy (PUOD) would play a role with
respect to policy matters and in dealing with local governments.
4.        Liaison and coordination would be maintained at provincial level
with the Provincial Public Works Department (Dinas PU Tk.I) via the Provincial
Offices of MPW (Kanwil). In Irian Jaya, as in several other provinces, the
Kepala Dinas PU Tk.I is also the Kanwil PU.
5.-       The establishment of the PMU will require the appointment or
transfer of additional staff as it is not possible for the existing PPSAB
staff to handle the additional responsibilities. In addition to the
appointment of government staff, a small team of consultants will be provided.
The PHU staffing requirements (both government and consultant) are detailed in
Annex 3 - Technical Assistance. It is expected that many of the required
government staff will be appointed and/or seconded from central government as
there are inadequate human resources in Irian Jaya.
6.        Day-to-day implementation will be handled by Project Implementation
Units (PIU) to be formed in each project town. Each PIU will have a manager
appointed from within the kabupaten Dinas PU or the water enterprise
(BPAM/PDAM) who will be directly responsible for all works within the
kabupaten. The PIU will be responsible for all civil works including
construction supervision, progress certification and reporting, and
disbursement application. At kabupaten level there will be close liaison
between the PIUs and the water enterprises; the PIU staff should ultimately
become core staff for the expanded water enterprises.



- 67 -
Page 7 of 9
INDONESIA
VAWESI - IRIAN JAYA  ~UAN DEVEOPMENT P3tECT
Flure 43 -Iusl_ant.tion Arrangemente
Irian Jay$ Waetr SyseDv C _rut
Ormenizatieonl Structure
Ministry                                                              Ministry
of                                                                    o
NaeH Affairs                                                          Puic Works
Dilrectorate GOeral                                                  Divoc   rat O    el
of Public                                                        of Hu_n Settl_nts
A4inistration and                                                       (C lK Ke)
Regionel Autonomy
Irian Joye                                Provir  lei                Directortet
Provincial   -____-__-__    Off i ce of Wi                               of
Oov-rnnt                                    (Kenw Ie) ettr Sup 'ly
(TX 1)                                                                (DUAB)
Public Work I
(Dines PU TX 1) 
|s lpet n                               Provincial                    Provincial
Oovern_ente                           Mronitoring end                 Watr Supply
(I INe)                              D veole_t    ____               ProJ et
(TX II)                                (PMDU)                      (PPSM tUU)
Joyspur             Other Towns 
(Dinoes PU TK II)
Projc                        Project
I Ipl_wnt tlen I            Ipl_wntetlen 
|Unit (Flu)                  t  Uito (PIU3)|
L_K s         ~~Instruction
---CerlSintotl and Svpport



- 68 -
ANNEX 4B
Page 8 of 9
7.        Some aspects of project implementation will remain with DAB
including:
*    Recruitment of conr;ultants;
*    ICB procurement; and
*    Establishment of the Provincial Monitoring and Development Unit.
LCB equipment procurement, which is proposed to be packaged for the province
as a whole, will be managed by the PMU.
B. Particular Irian Jaya Considerations
8.        The efficient implementation of viable water eupply systems in Irian
Jaya will require greater external support than is normal in provinces with
more highly developed public works infrastructure. The Irian Jaya situation
is characterized by:
(a) Limited availability of experienced contractors;
(b) A shortage of experienced and qualified supervisory staff;
(c) Logistical difficulties which affect both materials deliveries and
the management of construction;
(d) Past experiences of high water losses and poor construction
practices.
9.        Well organized technical assistance would contribute significantly
to the development of local resources while at the same time helping to
maintain technical standards.
10.       The construction supervision and management will be a training
ground for the future water enterprise staff at all levels. A team of
experienced consultants will provide support to both the PMU and the PIUs.
The on-the-job training provided during construction will be integrated with
the training to be provided under the Institutional Development and Training
subcomponent.
11.       The consultants to be provided under Implementation Assistance will
be attached to the PMU; however, they will spend a substantial amount of time
in the subproject towns providing support, assistance and on-the-job training
to the PIUs.
C. Provincial Monitoring and Development Unit
12.       The organizational structure also shows the Provincial Monitoring
and Development Unit (PMDU). The role of the PMDU relates more to longer-term
support for water enterprise operation. It does not relate specifically to
project implementation.
13.       The establishment of the PMDU will be initiated under the project
but not during the first year. In accordance with National policy the PMDU



- 69-
ANNEX 4B
Page 9 of 9
will be formed within the Provincial Public Works Office (Dinas PU Tk.I).
However, it is noted that there are currently very limited water enterprise
related skills available within the Dinas PU Tk.I and accordingly it will be
essential to support the PMDU by the secondment of staff from organizations
with the required skill from DAB and PPSAB.
14.       Direct involvement from DAB and particularly the Subdirectorate of
Technical Development (Subdit Pengaturan) is essential to ensure that the PMDU
is adequately resourced. Only limited consultant input in the form of one
senior advisor and short-term specialists (total of 24 manmonths) is proposed.



- 70 -                             ANNFX 4 C
Daae 1 of 8
INDONESIA
SULAWESI-IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY 0O
PROCUREMENT ARMANOENENTS
(Current Cost in Rp. million)
SULAWES! COMPONENT NON-WATZRSUPPLY
Contract Details                Total value for               Number of Contract
CatsaaOr lRD. mi1lion)
ICa     LC8      Other        lcs     LCB    Othw
UJUNG PANDANG
Civil Works
Urban roads                    -    28,019          -         -       96        -
Drainage                       -    15,971          -         -        6        -
Solid Waste/sanitation         -      2,563         -         -       18        -
KIP C MIIP                     -      5,24S         -         -       14        -
Goods
:rucks                         _     3 t 11        -          -       In        -
Constr.  quipment              -       '314         3           -      2        1
Motorbikes                     -        -          10           -      -        2
Handearts                      -        -          36           -      -        5
PVC Pipe                       -        -           3           -      -        2
Engineering services             -        -       5,218           -      -       50
SUB TOTAL U. PANDANG                   55,2P3    5,270            -    146       63
GORONSALO
Civll Works
Urban roads                    -      9,311         -         -       60        -
Drainage                       -      4,801         -          -      39        -
Solid Waste/sanitation         -        372         -         -        8        -
KIP & MZIP                     -        777         -          -      21        -
Goods
Trucks                         -        -          55         _-                4
Constr. Zquipment              -        -          18          -       -        1
Sludge Disposal (Zqp)          -        -           4                           I _  1
Motorbikes                     -        -           2          -       -        2
Handcarts                      -        -           5          -       -        4
PVC Pipe                       -        -           2         -        -        1
Trash 8lne                     -        -           3          -       -        4
Trafflc lights                 -                   20          -       -        1
Engineering services             -        -         804          -       -       34
SUB TOTAL GORONTALO              -    15,261        913          -     120       52



- 71 -                        ANNEX 4C
Page 2 of 8
Contract Details               Total value for               Number of Contract
Category (Ro. millianr
iCe     LC8     Other        Ica     LCB    Other
Civil Works
Urban roads                   -    11.283          -         -       41       -
Drainage                      -      2,303        ;          -       27       -
Solid Waste/sanitation        -        625         -         -        9       -
KIP L MIIP                    -      1,624         -         -       22       -
Goods
Trucks                        -         40        78         -        1       4
Constr. Equipment             -         -         28         -        -       2
Sludge Disposal (Eqp)         -         -          1         -        -       2
Handcarts                     -         -         9          -        -       5
PVC Pip-                      -         -          3         -        -       1
Trash Bins                    -         -         1S         -        -       4
rngineering services             -        -        843         -        -      37
------------------------------------------------------
SUB TOTAL PALU                   -     15,875      977         -       99      55
KZNDKRj
Civil Works
Urban roads                   -      2,304         -         -       14       -
Drainage                       -     2,057         -         -       12       -
Solid Waste/sanitation        -        691        -          -       15       -
KIP 6 MI1P                    -        321         -         -        4       -
Goods
Trucks                        -        108        21         -        2       1
Constr. Equipment              -       149        14         -        1       1
Generators                     -       -           S         -        -       1
Sludge Disposal Eq.           -        -           5         -        -       1
Motorbikes                     -       -           4         -        -       2
Hand carts                    -        -           4         -        -       2
PVC P.pe                      -        -           1         -        -       1
Engineering services             -       -         813         -        -      37
SUB----TOT-------------------------.-30--867----48-_46
SUB TOTAL [ENDAM SI                    5.630       867         -       48      46



- 72 -                          ANIEX 4C
Page 3 of 8
Contract Details                Total value for               Number of Contract
CAteoorv tRp. millioni
iCe     LCB     Other        CIC      LCB    Othwr
SITUNO
Civil Works
Urban roads                    -     1,784         -          -      14        -
Drainage                       -     1,768         -          -      12        -
Solid Waste/sanitation         -       131         -          -      1S        -
KIP & MIIP                     -       732         -          -       2        -
Goods
Trucks                         -        46        14          -        1       1
Constr. Equipmient             -       149        30          -        1       2
Sludge Disposal Eqp.           -        -          4          -       -        1
Motorbikes                     -        -          2          -       -        2
Hand carts                     -        -          1          -       -        1
PVC Pipe                       -        -          1          -       -        1
Engineering services             -       -         210          -        -      19
-___---_---------------------------------------------
SUB TC-TAL BITUNG                -     4,610       262          -      45       27
Civil Works
Urban roads                    -     8,396         -          -      36        -
Drainage                       -       707         -          -        3       -
Solid Waste/sanitation         -       234         -          -      10        -
K1P & MIIP                     -       256         -          -       6        -
Goods
Trucks                         -        -         47          -       1        3
Sludge Disposal Eqp.           -        -          5          -       -        1
Motorbikes                     -        -          3          -       _        3
Hand carts                     -        -          1          -       -        2
PVC PlpO                       -        -          1          -       -        1
Engineering services             -         -       576          -        -      11
SUB TOTAL BONE                   -     9,593       633          -      55       21



- 73 -                           ANNEX 4C
Page 4 of 8
Contract Detalli               Total valua for               Number of Contract
Cateaory LRo. million
ICa     LCB     Other        ICB     LCB    otLar
PALOPO
Clvil Works
Urban roads                   -      3,153        -          -      54        -
Drainage                      -      2,516         -         -       25       -
Solid Waste/sanitation        -        491        -          -        a       -
KIP & MIIP                    -        652        -          -        5       -
Goods
Trucks                        -         50        41         -        1       2
Constr. Equipment             -         -         15         -        -       1
Motorbikes                              -          1         -        -       1
Hand carts                              -          4         -        -       5
Engineering services             -                 506         -        -      28
------------------------------------------------------
SUB TOTAL PALOPO                 -     6,862       567         -       93      37
MANADO
Civil Works
Urban roads                   -    16,973          -         -       34       -
Drainage                      -      4,108         -         -       22       -
Solid Waite/sanitation        -      2,456         -         -       14       -
KIP & M$IP                    -      2,158         -         -       21       -
Goods
Trucks                               1,003         -                 12       -
Constr. EquipmQnt              -        -        114         -        -       2
Generators                     -        -         11         -        -       2
Sludge Disposal Eqp.          -         -         11         -        -       3
Motorbikes                     -        -          9         -        -       3
Hand carts                    -         -         14         -        -       5
PVC Pipe                      -         -          5         -        -       2
Trash Bins                     -        -          a         -        -       2
Engineering services             -              2,765          -        -      37
------------------------------------------------------
SUB TOTAL MANADO                     26,698    2,937                 103       56
PAREPARE 2)
Civil Works
Urban roads                   -      4,909         -         -       10       -
Drainage                      -        777         -                  4 
Sanitation                    -        409        -          -       30       -
KIP & MIIP                     -       310         -         -        4       -
Goods
Sludge Disposal Eqp.          -         75         -         -        1       -
Excavator                      -       170         -         -        1       -
Engineering services             -       -         384         -        -       5
SUB TOTAL PAREPARE               -     6,650       384         -       50       5
TOTAL NON WATER SUPPLY       3,781  142,673   12,810          12      75S     362



74  -                                 ANNEX 4C
Page 5 of P
TABLE AS.1 - PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
SULAWESI SUB-PROJE '.- WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
CONTRACT LISTING BY SUPPR0JECT AND CATEGORY
I                                                _                       _I.. .    . _               
ETq              0DESCRIPTION                  VEAR(Sl         NUMBER OF             TYPE          APPROlXIMATE
CONTRACTS                             VALUE I1]
1_ ILLiOh RUPIAh.4j
A      *UFW Camoangn reoairg antd serv'ce         91,95       I      NA           FA and Shopoing              2,000
o   Manado
'o  Kem1ar                                            I 1
o   Gorontal                                                            I
t                           I                 ~I                 II
,   Watarrpone
i 0   Palu
o   9 8it'd mg
ci  Paiopo                                           I                  I
;9t    ISupply and imstaltution of rrec'hanrcal   91194                      11 ICS                I           4, 50
,and electr,cal equ1pment
o   M3nado                                                              I                 1
o   Kcndari                                                                               I
o   Gorontalo                                                           |
i   Watampone                                        I                  I
'o  Palu                                              I                                    I
o   Bitung                                                                                i
0   Palopo                         .
,   !                                     I                 i                  I
D      ISjppIy of ,pes watves and meters          91!94                      30        LC8                    is CO
o   Mar2do                                                              I                 I
o   Kenrdar                                                             I                 i
o   Coror taio                                                          I
v. Watamponle
to  PitluIiI                                                                                   
o   Bturrg                                           1 g
to  Palopo
'D     ICrvilworka                                91/95                      30        LCB                     14500
i o   Manado                                          !
| i   Kendari                                                           i
0o  Gorontioj
I   ,   Watampone                                                         
io  Palu
X   0   situng                                                            
1   Palopo                                                                                 I
36,000~
jOTAL FOR SUB-PROJECT AND SECTOR                                             71 |
tl~ C&wr.ont pnene ificiding te nctaR Cefltng nelcI.



ANNEX 4C
Page  6  of  P
TABLE AB.2 - PROCUREMENT ARFNOEMENTS
IRAN JAYA SUB-PROJECT - PART A. TOWN WATER SUPPflES
CONTRACT LISTING BY SUBPROJECT AND CATEGORY
_____                  _______                                 ~~~~~~~~~31-0.0-W
ITEM                 DESCRIPTION                       YEAR(S        I  NUMBER OF                 TYPE            APPROXIMATE
,  I                    CONTRACTS                                   VALUE [1)1
-.  -                   _________               .----~,______________               _____            (MILLiO ARUPAU)
Al CIVIL WORKS BY CONTRACT (LCBI                                                                               I
I                   IIIi
'Al 1 I   AYAPURA                                I
'1   Inmtkiworks                                91NQ         I                             LCB                          300
2   Chlor;nstion fcilitis                      94I                              I         LCt                           WI
3    r7fmfission mains                       92/93 93S4                        21         LCt                         1,430
4   DLitribution mains                    92)9.9394.94)15                      3          LC8                         1,560
,    Service reservoirs                      929, 93/94                        2          LC8                         1.260
6.  Now ewrvic connoetions                92,93,9 US4, 94i                    31         LC3 Don
1         7   Buildings, offices, storef, workshop    1 33d4, 94M5    !2___                         LC8                          270 i
I        Subtotal                                                     i141                                      |              5.8COi
Al 2    SORPNNG                                                                                                                     ;
|                           ~~                   ~~~~~I iII
1i   Rvor intaoe and pumpfng srtation          91A92                           I1         LC                           310
2.  Rrnu treatment plant                     9 91/92, /94                      21         LCB                         1.200
.3   Pumpmng equiprment nstallation             gmA                             I          LC                            70!  I
4   Trsntmlsston mnans                       9112 62/93     i                  2 I        LCB                          3b0 I
3   O stribution rainsg                   9?193 93/4 904AI                     3          LC          I9
6   Se.v-ee reservoirs                          93/94                           t         LCB                           90
7   New service conn.ctionrs              934 94/5 95616                       3          LC8
8 9.ildio19gs ufces stores worishop          91/92. 93)94                      2          LCD                          400
Subtotci                               I                    1                 15                      I              4,070
A13    FAK FAK                                                        I
   Terstosnf plant upgrading and                           I                  I          LCB                          130
ck orlatlon facility
2    ,ansmibsion rnains                         92/93                           I         LCB                          200
3   Cistribution mains                 i    92/93, 93A4                        2'         LC8                          170
.4.  Serviceremrvoirs                           92g3                  1I                   LCD                           U I
.5   Suildings offices. bores, workshop      91/2 192/           -              2          LC         '                270
*    Subtotal                                                       7----~
Al 4    'NABIRE
,1   Wellf,eld deiopmpfen, pump abtion etc      91/92                                      LCB                          301
2.  Pumping and chiFinatwon eqipment            '91         1                   1        LC          j                 40
i nsttbUon                                                I
'3   Storage and associtted                  92At3 93                           I         LC4          !
tratnsmission/dlstributfon mains
4   Distribution mc'ins                   9       9? 5 ens4  5M/96             3 $        LC                           76
5   New service connections               'S74 W95 95Al6                        3 |        LC                           170
*  6   Buildingt, offices, storee, workthop  i S13 33/94                        2           Ci                          lt 330
Subtotia                                                                       Ill                                    1,670
-...         _   _ _     ---                              ________                                                            I  



- 76 -                                         ANNEX 4C
Page 7 of '?
TABLE A8.2 - PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMEN4TS
RiAN JAVA SUB-PROJECT - PART A. TOVWI WATER SUJPPLIES
CONTRACT LISTING BY SUBPROJECT AND CATEGORY
31-Oct-GO
ITEM           ~DESCRIPTION                        YEAR(S)            NUMBER OF    I            TYPE         IAPPROXIMATE
CONTRACTS                                   VALUE [II
-                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(MILLION4 RUPIAH)
Al 5     MANOKiWARI
Walt Dimgtm mtal,e and oum'p station'       92193                            I          LCD                           160
2   0-urp:rq cHof-matiom equjipmenmt             92113                                      I-Cs                           40
-,ifitallation,
3  ,   rrnsso  mants                          9 1)9292193                         2!         LCD                           5101
'4  Qlstribui~ton 'rQti'                   93194, 94M, 19                         3 I        LCD                          1,040
5   Seri'ce reseryoirs                           gm/9                             I          LCD                           100
.5   Nww service connections                93#94  94/95 9519                     31         LCD                           330
6   Suildimqs officeos tores. workshop           23A94                            I          LCD             ___            40
Subtotal                                                                         12'24
Al 6     BIAi'                                                                                
I Snarbiouw Pump Station buildings            92PV3                             11        LCD                           200
2   Pumpmino and chlorination                    92193                            I          LCD                             o
equipment installattion
3   Distribution and trarsmissonm mains    92/9  73)9  94M                        3          LCB                         'I 13D
4   Service reservoirs                        92/.19394)95                        21         LCD                            70
5   Now. serv,ce connectionis              93/94. 941,95A9116                     3          LCD3                          270)
6   Buddrrgs otfices, stores workshop      9 1/92, 92)93 94(9                     3          LCDB.                         450
Subtotal                                                                         1                                       2240
Al 7     SERUI
Seadirmentation tsnks and                   91/92                            1          LCD                            30
1:`nc'rnat.on, Isclity
2   Distribution maoins                   142)9  93/4.94,                         3          LCD                           630
3   Service reservoir                            g2m                              I          LCD                            60 I
4   New service connections                93194 94095, 95iW 6                    3 I        LCD                           1001
5   Buildings otfices stores, workshop        gm. 93414                           2          LCD O-                        2510 
Subtotal                                                                         0]              ~~-
Al 8      WNAMENA
I1  upgading of treatenwt p4ant                 1991/92                           II         LCD                            30.
including chiorinatman tactiity 
3   Oitptibujtion maman                       91/92 92193     i2 I                           LCD                           270
4   New sevice connections                 P3194 94195 9519                       3          LCD                            40
5   9tuildings, offices, stores. workshop     92,93 93/94                         2          LCD                3____   20-
Subtotal                                                                                                                   660,
,Al 9    PMOU FACILITIES
I   Duvilinq andsassociated civilworl, s         92413                                       LCD                           410
Subtotal                                                                           I410,
TOTAL FOR PART Al                                                                         9  I                                   19,220



ANNEX 4C
- 77 -                                      Page 8 of 8
TABLE A8.2 - PROCURfEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
IRFAN JAYA SUB-PROJECT - PART A: TOWN WATER SUPPULES
CONTRACT LISTING BY SUBPROJECT AND CATEGC RY
_    _~ ________  ___j___                 ,__    _O  1-NfilO0
TfM            DOESCRIPTION                     YEARtSl           NUMBER OF              TYPE            APPROXIMATE
CONTRACTS                                VALUE11
_________                                                  I                                         (MILL1ON RUPIAH)
A2 C!9.! .'NC-S BY DAY LASOUR                                                        I
__ ~       - _;  _  ________                                  IIi
A2 1    '@pigl.crnont and rpair of ewtimg ervic !                 I
conMoct onsIf  
,I    a Jcpypr                            9i 2, 92i               MA         j       DL.                        680
2.  Sarong                                g91A2,     ju           NA                  OL.                         70
3.  FatF.k                           1     1Af2, 2m      I        NA         i        DL!                         20
i4   Nabors 9s1t2. 929                                    I        fA                  DL        I                20
5   m.,okgri                              g 91A2. 92     1        NA                  O DL                        20
S   Risk                             ,   9     2jwt               NA                  OL                         t10
.   Srul                                  911S2. 92J93            NA                  DL                          20
a   Wamenua                               G 192, 920`111          NA                  DL                          30
Sujb-ramI                                I                                      I                                    4
$  ,                              ~         ~         ~         ~        ~~I  I  I            I
iA2 2    I Rehuabiittimon o existing trnBniSoei s I
,and distribtion ystimfs by Task Force
1   .syapura                                1t92, 92j    i        NA                  DL                         40
2   Sofong                           f    91g 2. OM               NA                  DL                         320
.3  Fa. Fak                          j        19tA2, 92A3  i      NA                  DL                          fO
; 4.  fab.r-                               1:i2, t3               N MA                DL                          aO
S.  Manfkvru                         I    91A1,92I3               NA                  DL                          f0
6   Btofk                           g!i91/9,   m                  MA                  DL.                        160
7   S.ru                             I          W1921SO           N4A                 DL                          30
We Wmeno                             I   91,92. O                 NA         |        fL                          30
Sub-ota                                                   
TOTAL FOR PARr A2                                                         NA                                           2,210
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                       T I                   
-                    ~---                                                 -+---T-- -T-- -- -___
,A3 EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT                                         I                             I
I  UFWTask Force,equipment                       g00S1                         I 1                                   SW
2.  MSCL pipesmndfttngs2 11                                  1                 2 1        ICO                         ,   .
3   PVC, GiandOt.A pop"u nd fttitlng21131   i    gC901       1                 3 1        ICe                       6,570
4   Sve's osnd afl k ukee rl2l            I       0Si         I                21        IC                         1 150
5   Mhchin  and ' - a Iquipment                  91           i                2 1        IC         It 3
8   S  IPvgf^bnr      bnka                i      901                             1 iI   IIce
4    7  'VeIicbs ,                             As required   I                 2         LCB                         SIt
a 3    iAAienelbe equiprnt                     As s.uur.d                     MA       Shrp                       2eY10g
TOTAL FOR PART A3                                                 I                13 1                               2i _690_1
;GAMC)i TOTAL FOR PART A                                                          104                                   012
11i Curront prboeclQuding tax   and eontingnce
(21  nitial contracts wil include say 70  of requirements for tiret two yers.
(31 Service conrection materiale. except for .nitlal rehabilitation, wil be procured later.



- 78 -
ANNEX 4D
Page 1 of 7
INDONESIA
SULAWESI-IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SIJUDP)
Disbursement Arrangements and Schedule for the IBRD Loan
Funding Channels for the SIJUDP
The IBRD Loan proceeds would be channeled to the SIJUDP Project through the
following four methods:
1.   IBRD-financed portions of Public Works Department DIPs, to be paid
from the SIJUDP Special Account (wDIP Rupiah Rekening Ehususw,
usually abbreviated to 'DIP Rp RRK). These could consist nf both
amounts to be paid in Rupiah and amounts to be paid in foreign
currencies, but DIP documents do not distinguish between these two
categories (the division may not indeed be clear at the time of DIP
preparation);
2.   IBRD-financed INPRES grant transfers for direct use by local
governments ("SPABP') also to be paid from the SIJUDP Special
Account;
3.   IBRD-reimbursement of Central Government Loans to local governments
and local government enterprises, through the SIJUDP Special
Account;
4.   Direct Payments in foreign currency by IBRD to contractors (where
deemed appropriate). These could relate both to Public Works
Department DIP budgetary allocations ("DIP Pembayaran Langsungs,
usually abbreviated to 'DIP PL') and to on-lending allocations.
The domestically-sourced counterpart funding by government agencies of
development expenditure within the Project would be channelled through:
5.   domestically-financed portions of Public Works Department DIPs
('DIP Rp APBN', sometimes also referred to as 'DIP Murni');
6.   local government and local government enterprise contr'butions
from:
(a) local governments' own revenues and revenues assigned to local
governments from higher levels ('PADS/PBBI);
(b) Inpres L2ti II grant from central to local governments;
(c) Inpres Jalan grant from central to local governments;
(d) province government grant to local governments (OSBDw);
(e) internal funds of local government enterprises.



- 79 -
ANNEX 4D
Page 2 of 7
(f) provincial government budgets;
(g) private sector contributions.
Payments Made in Rupiah
DIP Channel Financing - Central Government Sub-project Components
In the case of components of sub-projects for which central government
agencies have sole implementation responsibility, procedures would largely
follow those established for previous IBRD-financed urban projects. The DIP
document would specify the IBRD-financed share of the sub-project component as
Rp RK funding together with the domestically-financed counterpart sha!e as Rp
APBN funding in accordance with the specified IBRD disbursement percentages.
For example, for a DIP relating to one or more civil works contracts, 85
percent of each civil works contract sum would be specified as funded from Rp
RK funds and the balance of the contract amounts, together with all ineligible
expenditure (for taxes, etc.) would be specified as financed from Rp APBN
funds.
Payments to local contractors would be made through the State Treasury offices
in the relevant capital (KPKN) - the contractors would not have to go to
Jakarta to be paid.
INPRES Grant (SPABP) Channel Financing
Sub-project components to be financed by IBRD loan proceeds passed as grants
to local level through the SPABP channel could also have a counterpart
financing amount from the local governments' own revenue sources (PADS, normal
Inpres grants, etc.) or from INPRES Rp KHurni' funds.
Local governments will prepare each year a draft SIJUDP budget submissions
representing their implementation plans for sub-projects to be financed from
INPRES grant in the forthcoming budget year of their approved medium-term
programs (PJMs). These draft SIJUDP budgets would be submitted through the
Provinces (vith review by the provincial 'Technical Team) to central
government. After central review by Bappenas, Ministry of Finance and
Ministry of Home Affairs, D-G Budget of the Hinistry of Finance would issue an
authority (SKO) to KPKN in the provincial capitals to disburse up to specified
bumL., to be drawn on the SIJUDP Special Account, for each relevant local
government in respect of contract payments properly authorized under local
government DIPDA budgetary procedures.
Local governments would then prepare draft development budget authorizations
(DUPDA) for the relevant sub-projects, specifying, as Rp RX, the amount of
funding to be provided by IBRD through the SIJUDP Sptcial Account, in
accordance with the specified disbursement percenta&es on eligible
expenditure. The DUPDA would also show the counterpart funding amount(s) and
sources(s). In case contributions are to be provided from the local
government's own normal revenue sources, the local governments would make
appropriate provisions in their draft development budgets (APBD Pembangunan)



- 80 -
ANNEX 4D
Page 3 of 7
for these expenditures and their funding sources. Following APBD approval by
the local Representative Councils (DPRD) and ratification by provincial
governors, DUPDAs would be approved by Governors with the advice of the
pirovincial Technical Teams, and thence by local government mayors/regents,
thereby becoming DIPDAs authorizing the implementation of the relevant sub-
projects. These procedures are standard in local governments.
Each implementation contract would be written specifying one funding source as
being from KPKN, representing the IBRD funding share, and one supplementary
fundinp source.
Examples:
1.   A civil works contract could specify funding of 70 percent from
KPKN as the IBRD share, plus 30 percent from Bank Rakyat Indonesia
re. Inpres Dati II.
2.   An equipment supply contract Lwarded to a domestic contractor could
specify funding of lOO percent of the ex-factory prices from KPKN
as the IBRD share, plus the balance of the contract sum,
representing local transport overheads and taxes, from Kas Daerah
Dati II (PADS/PBB) a': the local counterpart source.
For each stage payment the contractor would be paid through the issue of two
payment orders: one drawn on the appropriate treasurer for local counterpart
funding source, and one issued by the KPKN in the relevant provincial capital.
Before certifying the latter payment order, KPKN would verify that the
counterpart payment order(s) had been drawn for the correct amount in
accordance with the specified IBRD financing proportion. DG Budget of the
Ministry of Finance would issue a Circular Letter to KPKN in the provincial
capitals instructing them to undertake this duty of verifying that the
counterpart funding contribution has been made. Again, local contractors
would not have to gc to Jakarta to be paid.
Central Government Domestic Lending Arrangements
It is agreed that these loans would be made using the Domestic Lending
Arrangements (DLA) of the Ministry of Finance Directorate of Investment Funds
(MOF-DPI). DDI would advance an initial tranche of money for sub-project
payments and be 90 percent reimbursed from the Special Account on the basis of
the requisite payment evidences and supporting documentation (see
'reimbursement from, and replenishment of, the Special Account' on page 6).
Budgetary authorization for the Special Account drawdowns would be provided
through the Rencana Anggaran Tahunan (RAT) proeedure. DJB would order
advances of monies from RDA to a designated Sub-project Account in a local
bank, on which payment orders would be drawn in favor of contractors/suppliers
by the sub-project implementing agency (Pimpro/Bendaharawan Proyek). The
latter would then submit copies of the payment orders and other supporting
documentation to DJB (DDI) for further advances and for DLA reinabursement from
the Special Account.



- 81 -
ANNEX 4D
Page 4 of 7
(Note: DJB (DDI) are urwilling to agree to loans for projects which would
finance procurement made under bulk purchase contracts covering a number of
borrowers in which those borrowers are not directly-contracting principals.
DDI also has reservations about an arrangement under which each borrowing
regional government or regional enterprise concludes a separate procurement
contract with a single nominated supplier selected on their behalf under open
competition).
Maintenance of PFAMS Records
Implementing agencies (Pimpros) would be responsible for notifying PFOs in the
relevant local governments of all payments made - through the provision of
copies of certified payment orders (SPM) - so that the payments can be
recorded in the Project Memorandum Accounts (PFAMS). These copy payment
orders must be provided individually at the time the transactions take place.
Payments Made in Foreign Currencies
Where deemed appropriate, certain technical assistance, training and ICB
procurement contracts would be paid in foreign currency. In certain
circumstances the payments would be made directly by IBRD; in other cases they
would be made from the SIJUDP Special Account.
Where the foreign currency payments relate to Department of Public Works DIP
budgetary allocations, the DIPs would be drawn up in an analogous way to the
procedures described above under wpayments made in Rupiah'. In some cases it
could happen that a single DIP document specified funding from all modes,
namely:
DIP Rp RK (denominated in Rupiah, but including the estimated Rupiah
equivalent of possible foreign currency payments made from the SIJUDP Special
Account);
DIP Devisa Pembayaran LangsuA.g (denominated in US Dollars, irrespective of the
actual currency of payment);
these together representing the IBRD funding share in accordance with the
specified IBRD disbursement percentages, plus
DIP RP APBN,
representing the central government domestic counterpart share.
Where the foreign currency payments relate to sub-project components financed
under the envisaged central government on-lending scheme described above, the
RAT budgetary authorization documents would be drawn up in a manner analogous
to that just described for DIP documents. The RATs would be drafted by
project implementing agencies of the borrowers (Pemda Tk II or BUMD) and
submitted in the first instance to DDI.



- 82 -
ANNEX 4D
Page 5 of 7
Direct Payment Arrangements
Established standard procedures would be followed whereby IBRD makes the
payments to the contractor on the application of the relevant SIJUDP
implementing agencies through Bank Indonesia. In the case of direct payments
relating to contracts financed under on-lending agreements, implementing
agencies would submit the payment applications to Direktorat Dana Investasi
(DDI) in the Ministry of Finance, who would pass them on to Bank Indonesia.
IBRD (RSI) would periodically notify CPFO of all direct payments thus made.
CPFO would in turn be responsible for notifying PFOs in each local government
of the relevant direct payments made in relation to their local government's
PJM, so that the payments can be recorded in the Project Memorandum Accounts
(PFAMS). In the case of direct payments relating to contracts financed under
on-lending agreements, CPFO would also notify DDI in order that the payments
can be recorded in the borrowers' loan accounts.
Payments from the Special Account
Payments for eligible expenditures would, on application by the relevant
SIJUDP implementing agencies, be ordered by DG Budget (TUA) directly from the
SIJUDP Special Account. For such payments relating to contracts financed
under on-lending agreements, implementing agencies would submit the payment
applications to DDI, who would in turn forward them to TUA. The process
normally involves the issue by TUA of two payment orders (SPM): the first SPM
specifies the payment amount in the relevant currency, together with the
estimated Rupiah equivalent; a later, supplementary SPM is issued to adjust
the Rupiah equiv2ient to the actual figure notified by Bank Indonesia at the
time of payment. (This latter SPM shows the Rupiah adjustment only, and can,
of course, be for a positive or negative amount). In the case of such
payments relating to DIP authorizations, the official copies of these two SPM
intended for the Ministry of Public Works would be sent by TUA to the
CPFO/i, which would be responsible for (a) sending photocopies to the PFO in
the relevant local government so that the transaction can be recorded in the
PFAMS, and (b) sending on the official copies to the relevant DG in the
Ministry of Public Works. In the case of such payments relating to RAT
authorizations in respect of the envisaged on-lending arrangement, the
official copies of the two SPMs would be sent by TUA to DG for Monetary
Affairs (DDI) who wculd record the payment in the appropriate borrower's
account and also send photocopies of the SPMs to the PFO in the relevant local
government.
/1   Authority for TUA to do this, and for the role of the CPFO in this
respect, will have to be provided by the Ministry of Public Works,
either through an SK of the Secretary-General, or through a joint SX of
Dir-Jen Cipta Karya, Bina Marga and Pengairan.



- R3 -
ANNEX 4D
Page 6 of 7
Reimbursement from and Replenishment of the Special Account
KPRN, through the local branch of Bank Indonesia would directly draw on the
SIJUDP Special Account in respect of payments made under the DIP (Rp RK)
channel.
Reimbursements from the Special Account to the DLA in respect of payments made
under the envisaged central government on-lending arrangement would be ordered
by DG Budget (TUA) on application of DDI supported by the following
documentation:
(i) the payment orders (SPMU) drawn by implementing agencies
(namely, Pemda Tingkat II and PDAM) on the local sub-project
on-lending bank accounts;
(ii) certificates of Performance (Berita Acara) issued by
implementing agencies;
(iii)  copy of IBRD  No Objection Letter, in the case of civil works
contracts with a value of US$ 500,000 equivalent and over, and
goods supply contracts with a value of US$ 200,000 and over.
On the application of D-G Budget (TUA), IBRD would replenish the Special
Account quarterly or when the balance in the Special Account becomes 50
percent of the initial deposit, whichever occurs sooner in respect of these
drawings. In the c^se of civil works contracts with a value of US$ 500,000
equivalent and over and goods supply contracts with a value of USS 200,000
equivalent and over, and all contracts for consultancy services and training,
the replenishment applications would be supported by the followinE
documentation:
(i)  the payment orders (SPM or SPMU) issued by KPKN offices, or
drawn on local sub-project on-lending bank accounts, or issued
by TUA in respect of foreign currency payments from the Special
Account;
(ii)  certificates of Performance (Berita Acara) issued by
implementing agencies;
(iii)  copy of IBRD 'No Objection Letter'.
In the case of civil works and goods supply contracts/order3 with values below
these limits, the replenishment applications would be supported by Statements
of Expenditure (SOE). The detailed supporting documentation in respect of
SOEs would be retained by TUA and implementing agencies, mnd made available
for review by IBRD on request.



- 84 _
ANNEX 4D
Page 7 of 7
INDONESIA
SULAWESI - IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(S million)
Estimated Disbursements
Semester                           Cumulative             Profiles /a
Semester         ending         Amount         Amount          2            (Cum. 2)
(1)    (2)
1             06/91            0.0            0.0           0.0          0       0
2             12/91            6.3            6.3           6.3          3       2
3             06/92           12.8          19.1           19.1         10       7
4             12/92           13.6           32.7          32.7         18      14
5             06/93           14.0          46.7           46.7         26      26
6             12/93           11.5           58.2          58.2         34      37
7             06/94            9.7          67.9           67.9         46      46
8             12/94            8.8           76.7          76.7         58      52
9             06/95            7.6          84.3           84.3         70      58
10             12/95            7.0           91.3          91.3         82      64
11             06/96            5.0           96.3          96.3         90      70
12             12/96 /b         3.7         100.0          100.0         94      76
13                                                                       98      81
14                                                                      100      85
15                                                                               90
16                                                                               96
17                                                                              100
/a (1) Urban sector profile for Asia.
(2) Urban sector profile for Indonesia.
/b Loan closing date.
Notet  The project disbursement schedule is sherter than the standard profile
due to a number of features which have been incorporated into this
project to accelerate loan disbursements: (i) first year detailed
designs and tender documents will be completed before loan effectiveness
with funding for this work trom the Japanese Grant Facility; (ii) the
technical teams at the local government level which will be responsible
for implementation, were fully involved during the preparation phase;
(iii) local counterpart funds are being included in the annual government
expenditure budgets; and (iv) there is no national-level TA which in the
past tended to lengthen the loan disbursement period.



- 85 -                           ANNEX 4R
rage I of 1
INDONESIA
SJLAWESI - IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Implementation ar.d Performance Indicators ard Reporting Systems
Rep.: ting la
frequency and
Indicators                                           responsibility    Reporting to:
1.  Conformity of annual budget allocation with   annua.
approved expenditure programs and financing   (1) PFO                (1) CPFO
plans                                            (2) CPFO            (2) TKPP/IMG
and IBRD
2.  Conformity of actual expenditures with           annual
budget allocations                               (1) PFO             (1) CPFO
(2) CPF            (2) TKPP/IMG
and IBRD
3.  Physical progress per local government and    quarterly
water enterprise                                  (1) PMO/PHU            CPMO
(2) CPMO               TKPP/IMG
and IBRD
4.  RKL/RPL Implementation                           annual
(1) PMO/PHU        (1) CPMO
(2) CPMO           (2) TKPP/IHG
and IBRD
5.  Water enterprise financial targets               annual
(1) PMO/PHU        (1) CPHO
(2) CPMO           (2) TKPP/IHG
and IBRD
6.  Local government revenue improvement              annual
targets and achievements                         (1) PMO             (1) CPMO
(2) CPMO           (2) TKPP/IHG
7.  Loan disbursement targets                         quarterly
CPFC                   TKPP/IHG
and IBRD
d.  Consulting services implementation                quarterly
schedules, particularly assignment starts        CPMO                    TKPP/IMG
and IBRD
9.  Procurement schedules                             quarterly
(1) PMO/PHU        (1) CPMO
(2) CPHO           (2) TKPP/IMG
and IBRD
/a PMO refers to the Project Monitoring Offices at the local government level in
Sulawesi PHU refers to the Project Management Unit in Irian Jaya.



- 86 -
AANN.P 4
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SULAWESI - IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Bank Supervision Input
1.          The staff inputs indicated in the table below are in addition to
regular supervision needs for the review of quarterly progress reports.
procurement  documents  and  actions,  correspondence,  etc.    These  routine
requirements at Bank headquarters are estimated to be about six staff weeks
during PY92 and FY93 and approximately four staff weeks per year thereafter.
Staff input during the field supervision is indicated in Table 1. Accordingly,
the total Bank supervision input is estimated at about 20 staff weeks annually
during FY92 and FY93, and about 15 staff weeks during FY94 and FY96.
GOI's Contribution to Supervision
2.          Progress reports will be submitted as follows:
(a)   generally following the format being used for Loan 2932-IND (First
Jabotabek Urban Development Project - JUDP I);
(b)   on a quarterly basis and within 45 days of the end of each quarter,
with the first report for the period of July through September 1991
due by November 15, 1991.
(c)   prepared by CPMO using inputs from all implementing agencies.
3.          Overall   project  monitoring  and  coordination   will  be  the
responsibility of CPMO in DGCK. Review meetings with key representatives of the
main implementation agencies will be beld semi-annually in May/June (in Jakarta)
and in November in the field. The meetings in Jakarta would be chaired by the
Secretary of TKPP; all meetings would be attended by a serior representative of
DGCK, which Is responsible for overall project supervision by the Central
Government.
4.          DGCK, assisted as necessary by TKPP, will also be responsible for
coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision missions and for providing support
required by Bank missions.



- 87 -
ANNEX 4F
Page 2 of 2
Table 1: BANK SUPERVISION INPUT
Approximate                                       Expected Skill          Staff
dates                Activity                   Requirements        Inputs (SW)
11/91     First Supervision Mission            Financial Analyst       8.0
(Project launch and extensive       Municipal Engineer
field visits)                       Sanitary Engineer
Environmentalist
5-6/92    Supervision Mission                  Financia' Analyst       6.0
Municipal Engineer
Sanitary Engineer
FY92      Headquarters                                                 6.0
11/92     Supervision Mission (with            Financial Analyst       8.0
extensive field visits)             Municipal Engineer
Saaitary Engineer
Environmentalist
5-6/93    Supervision Mission                  Financial Analyst       6.0
Municipal Engineer
Sanitary Engineer
Environmentalist
FY93      Headquarters                                                 6.0
11/93     Supervision Mission                  Financial Analyst       3.0
Municipal Engineer
Sanitary Engineer
FY94      Headquarters                                                 4.0
5-6/94    Mid-term Review Mission              Financial Analyst       8.0
(including plans for prepara-       Municipal Engineer
tion of PCR)                        Sanitary Engineer
Envirormentalist
FY95-96   Supervision Mission and                                     15.0
Headquarters



- 88 -
ANNEX 4G
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA
SULAWESI - IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SULAWESI COMPONENT
Operations and Maintenance of Urban Infrastructure and Services
1.        Key facets of the agreed approach to strengthening operations and
maintenance (O&M) activities for infrastructure and services covered by the
SIJtUDP expenditure programs in each local government include: (&) Estimates
of required O&M expenditures (by subsector); (b) Analysis of current
capabilities for O&M; (c) Installation of POMMS in local governments; (d) PMDU
strengthening for water enterprise O&M improvement; (e) Development of
provincial public works capacities to assist O&M; (f) Development of annual
O&M programs (with appropriate links to institutional and revenue improvement
plans); (g) Revision of Local O&M budgets and financing (MNA-KEPMIN No.
5/1990); and (h) Recommended monitoring and supervision indicators.
Estimates of Required O&M Expenditures (by subsector)
2.        Project preparation efforts for O&M elements in each subsector began
with the review of technical memoranda (prepared for EJBUDP) describing unit
costs for O&M activities for existing and new infrastructure. Preliminary
inventories of existing infrastructure, the functional classification of these
systems to assign O&M responsibilities among central, provincial and local
government units, and estimation of curLent conditions and deferred
maintenance needs were all undertaken in the initial preparation stages. Four
subsectors (of the seven covered by IUIDP guidelines) emerged as the focal
points of O&M efforts: water supply, roads, drainage and solid waste. Within
the sanitation subsector, the empty:.ng of septic tanks and disposal of sludge
(by public or private operators) is the principal O&M issue. On-site
sanitation is the preferred approach in almost all localities (except for
Manado, where a detailed study for a sewerage system including O&ir5
requirements is proposed). For KIP/MIIP subsectors O&M is generally presumed
to be a 'communityft responsibility, though care must be taken to ensure that
provision is made for operating water taps, public toilets (MCK) and other
KIP/MIIP facilities, and to confirm that local governments will assist in
establishing 'merchants' associations, or provide other specific arrangements
for MIIP O&M.
Analysis of Current Capabilities for O&M
3.        The estimated requirements for O&M (from paragraph 1 above) were
then compared to current O&M practices and capabilities in four basic
respects: (a) manpower available with the responsible agency (as part of
institutional assessment); (b) budget levels provided for O&M activities
during the past five-year period; (c) equipment and facilities available
versus needs; and (d) preliminary identification of the potential for
contracting OWH activities in each subsector.



- 89 -
ANNEX 4G
Page 2 of 5
4.        This analysis is summarized as follows:
(a) for subsectors other than water supply, the local governments were
generally providing between 20 percent and 40 percent of the
estimated O&M requirements, and had substantially impaired
capabilities due to shortage of trained manpower, adequate equipment
and spare parts, etc.;
(b) water supply enterprises were highly variable in their O&H
performance, but generally provided 50 percent to 80 percent of
needed O&M for their systems, with inability to raise tariff levels
and shortage of trained manpower citek' as the key obstacles; and
(c)  most local governments had not seriously explored the option of
contracting for O&M, as GOI regulations prohibit contracting from
the "rout3ne" component of GOI budgets (as opposed to the
"development" component from which contracts are normally financed).
(However, a few local governments were contracting road maintenance
and some were willing to consider solid waste collection on a
"franchise' basis covering designated urban communities (typically
upper income areas), following the success experienced by the City
of Surabaya with this approach.) Drainage channel cleaning was
another area of O&M discussed for potential contracting, with a
mixed response by local governments.
5.        The analysis resulted in the definition of current levels of O&M
expenditure for each local government ("current O&M' in the expenditure
program), and two types of proposed additions or 'incremental' O&M
expenditures: (a) a graduated increase of O&M budget to reach estimated
requirements for current infrastructure systems and (b) O&M expenses necessary
for newly constructed and rehabilitated facilities. Responsibility for
budgeting the required O&M expenditure was assigned based on the functional
classification of facilities (particularly for roads and drainage) between
central, provincial and local governments. However, both central (especially
DGBM) and provincial agencies frequently arrange for lower level units to
execute O&M budgets, and execution responsibilities for budget allocations in
these cases must be agreed annually.
Installation of POMMs in Local Governments
6.        The Performance-Oriented Maintenance Management System (POMMS) was
originally developed with Bank assistance for the Urban V project cities; USLI
assistance was used to refine and extend POMMS to additional cities (eight are
now covered) and develop improved local government budgeting procedures
associated with POMMS implementation.  Ujung Padang is the only SIJUDP project
town included among the initial POMMS cities.
7.        Further progress in fully developing the POMMS approach e.s an O&M
programming and management technique for all non-water supply infrastructure
has recently taken two major steps forward:



- 90 -
ANNEX 40
Page 3 of 5
(a)  The USL and Urban V p,iject supported a 'simplifioed  version of
POMMS for application in medium-to-small urban areas, simplifying
inventory procedures and applying uniform performance standards,
rather than the case-by-case methods used in the large cities.
(b) The Minister of Home Affairs in January 1990, issued a Decree
(KKEPMIN No. 5/1990) instructing the fully implementation of POMMS
in the eight pilot cities and the preparation of budget documents in
revised formats which explicitly identify O&M expenditures for the
first time in Indonesia. The KEPMIN alsL commends the POMMS
approach for consideration by other local governments and provides
guidelines for its implementation and associated budgeting
procedures.
The proposed project would install the simplified version of POMS in all nine
project towns, and utilize these local government systems as training
opportunities for officials of other local governments and provincial
officials.
PMDU Strengthening for Water Enterprise O&M Improvement
8.        Within the water supply subsector, which is not covered by POMMS,
the focal point of GOI-Bank efforts to improve water enterprise O&W has been
the Provincial Monitoring and Derelopment Units (PMDU). The PMDUs are
established within the provincial public works departments (DPUPs) with
responsibility to monitor the full range of water supply service provision by
all local enterprises, with particular attention to those in transition from
the status of BPAM. The PMDUs will assist water enterprises in evaluating
staffing, training and other strengthening requirements (e.g., budgeting
procedures, chemical and supplies management, etc.) to improve operational
effectiveness and efficiency. The PMDU is also charged with assisting PDAM
units with calculation and justification of appropriate user tariffs to assure
adequate financirg of system operations and orderly expansion, and to assist
in making appropriate arra..gements for operation of public water taps in low-
income areas (e.g., under the KIP program) which has been typically
troublesome for many enterprises. PMDU also serves to coordinate local staff
participation in training programs for operational and management personnel of
the water enterprises. The proposed project includes technical assistance to
strengthen the capacity of PMDU units to perform these central activities
during the project implementation period.
Development of Provincial Public Works Capacity to Assist O&M Programs
9.        The DPUPs have staff on branch offices (cabang dinas) in each local
government. The increasing role of local governments in implementing
infrastructure programs, and the announced intention of the Ministry of Public
Works to second substantial numbers of their current staff for provincial
service, creates an opportunity to revise and strengthen the role of the DPUP
in assisting local government O&M program development. The heads of DPUP
units have agreed to assign members of the branch-office staff to receive
training in POMMS and PMDU O&M procedures, to create the capacity to support



- 91 -
ANNEX 4G
Page 4 of 5
local governments in preparing and executing O&H activities, the primary need
is to strengthen the O&H management assistance capacity for the PLP subsectors
(i.e., d;ainage, solid waste management and sanitation). DGCK has agreed to
assist in the creation of this capacity.
Development of Annual O&H Programs for Each Local Government
10.       The preceding activities are necessary preparatory steps to provide
local governments with the background and resources to develop annual O&M
programs covering all infrastructuire subsectors, within the constraints of
current manpower and budget resources. The provincial DPUPs and PMDUs would
assist the local governments to prepare annual O&M programs, and to monitor
and support their execution. The POMHs consultants would review and assist
DPUP to establish the format the orocedures for preparation and monitoring of
the annual programs. One of the most significant aspects of this initiative
would be the opportunity to discuss manpower and financial planning for OLM in
each subsector with every active local government in the program.
11.       Shortages of trained manpower will create opportunities to discuss
contract O&M schemes with the local governments. The recent revision of
INPRES Data II (block grant) regulations to allow up to 25 percent of these
transfers to be used for maintenance and rehabilitation contracts should also
provide flexibility in constructing the annual programs. The linkages with
institutional revenue improvement plans to increase local manpower and revenue
will also be specifiLally discussed in this annual review to assure
consistency and improve local government management of the O&M agenda.
Revision of Local Government O&M Budget Procedures
12.       Within the context of the above-noted MHA KEPHIN No. 5/1990 (see
para. no. 3) the framework has been proposed for a revised format and
classification of local government annual budgets. The instruction requires
the eight pilot local governments (and encourages other) to prepare "parallel'
budgets in addition to "basic' (traditional) local budget. This new parallel
budget has three major categories: (a) administrative overhead (salaries,
administration, etc ); (b) O&M of public facilities and service systems; and
(c) development projects (including design and supervision overheads).
13.       This structure represents a major step in making O&M budgeting
transparent and monitorable, as opposed to the current general 'routine'
category (combining wa' and 'b' above) in which line items contain a mixture
of funds and functions. MHA/PUOD staff indicate that it is the intention of
GOI to convert the entire local government budget systehm to this new format
after a period ef parallel operation. Project support for municipal financial
management would assist in this parallel budgeting and accounting process in
local governments and provide appropr'.ate formats and instructions for use by
other local governments with the guidance of provincial SEKWILDAs.
O&M Monitoring Indicators
14.       Monitoring indicators would include the following:



- 92 -
ANNE: 4G
Page 5 of S
(a) preparation of annual maintenance program and budget per MAM Kepu'n
No. 5/1990;
(b) actual O&M expenditures per subsector versus target in expenditure
program;
(c)  installation of POMMS - Portion of O&M expenditures based on POHKS;
(d) level of deferred maintenance and rehabilitation contracts
Expenditures v. Level of Routine O&M Expenditures;
(e) portion of routine O&M performed under contracts (by subsector);
(f)  increase in O&M expenditures (total compared to increase in TK It
PADS; and
(g) actual measurably improved O&M of infrastructure.



- 93 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1
INDONESIA
SULAWESI - IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local Government/City Profiles
Urban Population (thousand)
City              Administrative Status           1990              1995 (est.)
in Sulawesi
Gorontalo       Kotamadya                          54                    60
Bitung          Kotamadya                          35                   39
Manado          Kotamadya                         237                   253
Palu            Kota Administratip                107                  128
Kendari         Kota Administratip                 68                   84
Ujung Pandang  Kotamadya                          764                  849
Watampone       Kecamatan                          29                    30
Palopo          Kota Administratip                 58                   70
Pare Pare       Kotamadya                          79                   81
in Irian Jaya
Biak            Kecamatan                          40                   49
Jayapura        Kabupaten                         120                  165
Sorong         Kecamatan                           80                  107
Fak Fak         Kecamatan                          21                   /6
Nabire          Kecamatan                          20                   26
ManolX vari     Kecamatan                          53                    86
Wamena          Kecamatan                           7                     9
Serui           Kecamatan                          16                   19



- 94 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 14
INDONESIA
SULAWESI - IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSESSMENT
A. General Technical Standards and Criteria for Subproject Selection,
Planning and Design
(adapted to suit local conditions according to MPW guidelines)l/
1)   Sector Selection Criteria
Water Supply              : Demand, water stress area, industrial
development, tourism
Drainage                  : Flooding, deferred maintenance, increased
runoff, inadequate capacity
Solid Waste              : National guidelines regarding coverage for
high densities, environmental and health
considerations
Sanitation               : National guidelines regarding coverage for
high densities, environmental and health
considerations
Roads                     : Average daily traffic, congestion, traffic
flow constraints, road condition, accidents,
new land developments
KIP                       : National policy for basic services, local
government initiatives, poor environmental
conditions, community willingness to operate
and maintain infrastructure
MIIP                      : Service deficiencies, local government
initiatives, environmental anid health consid-
erations
1/   All standards and criteria follow MPW guidelines which have been reviewed
and found acceptable by the Bank. Details are provided in the Project
File.



- 95 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 14
2)   Subproject Design Criteria
(a) Water Suppl1
Planning:
-    Priority for rehabilitation and optimum use of existing systems
-    Priority for reduction of water losses and leakages
-    Ability and willingness to pay for water supply
-    Ad3quate income for piped water supply
-    Demand for special areas (e.g., tourism needs)
-    Planning period of 10 years
-    Optimum system selected on basis of minimum present value of total
costs over project life taking a discount rate of 10 percent
-    Environmental impact assessments, as appropriate.
Engineering Design:
- Vater quality           -    Indonesia and WHO permissible
standards
Maximum pressure          -    7.5 bar in the distribution system
Minimum pressure          -    1.0 bar in the distribution system
over a 24 hour period
-    Peak day demands          -    1.15 x average day demand
-    Peak hour demands         -    2.00 x peak day demand
(b) Drainage
Planning:
City drainage planning focuses initially on primary and secondary
drainage, and local flooding. Major flood control works are the
responsibility of central or provincial authorities. Urban drainage
coverage target is 60 percent in Repelita V. with 100 percent coverage by
primary and secondary systems. Optimizat.on of existing drainage systems.
Major drainage works to be undertaken on the basis of drainage
masterplans
Design:
Q - F x C x I x A, where Q - discharge, C-coefficient of roughness,
I - rainfall intensity and A - catchment area
Return period of design stotm              -     5 years
Minimum velocity of flow in channels       -     0.5 meters/second
m4nimum
Hydraulic design                           -     Manning's Formula



-96 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 14
(c) Solid Waste Services
Planning:
Based on environmental and health considerations, demand and willingness
to pay. High priority for communities with densities over 200
person/hectare.
Design standard:
Population density greater than 200 persons/ha, 100 percent service;
population density between 100 person/ha and 200 person/ha, 75 percent
service; no service yet for density less than 50 person/ha; and 100
percent service for commercial areas and markets.
Refuse generation: 3.15 liters/capita/day for medium towns; 1.85
liters/capita/day for small towns
Disposal by sanitary landfill: environmental impact assessments
required.
Design:
Modular system as per DG Cipta Kary.  guidelines.
(d) Sanitation
.lanning:
Eighty percent coverage of urban population by 1995 (Repelita V).
-    Sewer systems may be considered for densities in excess of 200
person per hectare. Systems include conventional sewers, small bore
sewers or shallow sewers.
-    All other areas to have on-site systems.
Criteria:
1.   Areas with ground water table less than 1.5 meters
a.   Population density greater than 150 persons/ha - 100 percent
service level, using type Al (MK-5 KK + septic tank and
anaerobic filter) or type Bl (WC/JK + septic tank and anaerobic
filter)
b.   Population density less than 150 person/ha - 80 percent
service, type Al or Bl facility.



- 97 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 14
2.   Are2s with ground water table between 1.5 m and 5 m
a.   Population aensity greater than 200 persons/ha - 100 percent
service level, type A (MK-5 KK + septic tank and anaerobic
filter) or type Bl (WC/JK + septic tank and anaerobic filter)
b.   Populationi density 150 - 200 person/ha - 80 percent service
level type B (WC/JK + septic tank and soakaway trench)
c.   Population density less than 150 person/ha - 60 percent service
level using type B facility
3.   Areas with ground water table greater than 5 meters
S.   Population density greater than 200 person/ha - 100 percent
service level using type A and type B2 facility
b.   Population density 150-200 person/ha - 80 percent service level
using type B facility
c.   Population density less than 150 person/ha - 60 percent service
level using type C facility (soak pit with leaching pit)
4.   Water consumption for pour flush latrines taken as 5 lpd. Sludge
generation in pour flush latrines is 30 led.
All according to DG Cipta Karya Guidelines.
B. Technical Description 1Hon-Water Supply Subprojects
(SULAWESI Component)
1. General
1.1       The non-water supply physical infrastructure investments constitute
a well balanced and fully integrated program of infrastructure improvements,
covering - in accordance with national IUIDP objectives and guidelines-the
urban roads, drainage, solid waste, sanitation, Kampung Improvement Program
(KIP) and Market Infrastructure Improvement Program (MIIP) subsectors. The
scope of the subprojects has been determined by the amcunt of capital
investment funds available after covering essential O&M expenditures. The
relative priorities between subsectors have been established based on the
severity of infrastructure deficiencies and the magnitude of the expected
benefits; special priority has been accorded to support of economic activities
and poverty alleviation. Improvement of environmental conditions was also
given high priority. Subprojects were conceived as logical units of
investments which will yield benefits when implemented as one activity.
Details on each of the six subsector are given below.



- 98 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 14
2.   Urban Roads
2.1       In determining priorities in the urban roads subsector the following
guidelines have been used:
(a) first priority is given to upgrading and improvement of existing
main road sections; artery and collector roads rather than local
roads (Repelita V priority).
(b) high priority is also given to prevention of immediate damage to
installations ad network sections and making up for deferred
maintenance.
(c) expenditures related to expansion of the existing road network have
received second priority.
(d) funds requirements for adequate annual O&M expenditures rank above
new capital expenditures; only if funds for recurrent expenditures
are assured, have investments in network improvements been
considered.
2.2       Planning criteria, design standards and unit costs are generally
based on National IUIDP and DG Bina Marga guidelines. Detailed documentation
is provided in th rZJjB UDP Technical Memorandum Urban Roads, November 1988.
3. Drainage
3.1       The drainage system comprises main rivers, primary drainage
channels, secondary and tertiary drainage. Emphasis is on rehabilitation and
cleaning of the existing network, with extensions primarily serving to
increase the effectiveness of the existing system. (Primary drainage flood
control works in Ujung Pandang are covered under on-going OECF assistance).
3.2       Planning criteria, design standards and unit costs are generally
based on national IUIDP and DG Cipta Karya guidelines. Detailed information
is provided in the EJ/B UDP Technical Memorandum City-Wide Drainage, November
1988.
4. Solid Waste
4.1       Solid waste disposal subprojects focus on the most densely
population areas of the towns concerned: areas with a density of over 20'
persons/ha have priority in the program, which tries to ameliorate
deficiencies in the existing solid waste collection and disposal service,
based on an assessment of demand.  The solid waste ccllection system is based
on an approach adopted nation-wide in accordance with the National Solid Waste
Management Strategy (March 1989).  Priority is given to the improved
operations of available equipment, and only essential investments in new
vehicles are proposed. Development of new waste disposal sites (landfills)
with adequate capacity is also given high priority.



- 99 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 14
4.2       Plan..ing criteria, design standards and unit cos:s which are based
on national IUIDP and DG Cipta Karya guidel nes. , 7etailed information is
provided in the EJ/B Technical Memorandum Solid Waste Disposal Management
System, November 1989.
5. Sanitation
5.1       Similar to the solid waste programme the sanitation program gives
priority to densely populated areas with densities of over 200 people/ha. The
programme aims to upgrade existing, multi and single family sanitation
facilities (MCKs, multi-family latrines, septic tanks), provides new
facilities of a similar nature, equipment to empty and clean the facilities,
disposal sites, supporting feEsibility studies for sewer schemes, and
operation and maintenance expenditure and information campaign expenditure.
The recommendations of the National Strategic Plan for the Human Waste and
Waste Water Disposal subsector for Urban Areas (January 1989) have been taken
into consideration. Planning criteria, design standards and unit costs are
generally based on IUIDP and DG Karya guidelines, detailed information is
provided in the EJ/B Technical Memorandum Human Waste Disposal Management
System, November 1989.
6. KIP
6.1       The Kampung Improvement Program (KIP) provides micro-infrastructure
at kampung neighborhood level, including access roads, footpaths, smrall
drains, MCKs, water stand pipes and solid waste handcarts and transfer
stations.  For several TK II re-KIP is provided for kampungs that had a KIP
program implemented more than 10 years ago.
6.2       Planning criteria, design standards and unit costs are based cn
IUIDP and DG Cipta Karya guidelines.
7. MIIP
7.1       The Market Infrastructure Improvement Programme (MIIP) provides
micro infrastructure (similar to K'P) in the market areas. Planning criteria,
design standards and unit costs are based on IUIDP and DG Cipta Karya
guidelines.
C. Technical Description of Water Supply Subprojects
(Sulawesi Component)
8.1       Water supply sector reports hal been prepared for the towns of (1)
Bitung; (2) Watampone (Bone); (3) Palu (Donggala); (4) Gorontalo; (5) Palopo
(Luwu); and (6) Manado.
Review of Water Demand Projections
8.2       In all above project towns available project documents and executed
additional surveys were reviewed to assess present service levels, management
capacity, status of water supply facilities, desire and willingness to pay for
water svpply and per capita demand. The proposed projects based on the



- 100 -
ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 14
reviews aze technically sound and would provide the least cost solution to
satisfy future water demand.  As most of tie towns have high unaccounted for
water, special attention has been paid to design leakage reduction campaigns
on n case by case basis in relat.on to systems operation, design, age and
facilities and maintenance practices. Earlier proposals for the water supply
of the above towns which had been prepared for DAB were extensively modified
to incorporate the effects of now capital works installea, and revised water
consumption and population projections.
8.3       A description of the technical proposals for water supply based on
the above reviews is given further below.
Detailed Design and Bidding Documents
8.4       These technical proposals would result in a first year program of
actions which includes in order of priority (i) carrying out leak detection
programs in all cities except Palu and Palopo where these programs would not
have any economic benefits; (ii) rehabilitation of water treatment plant in
Manado; and (iii) implementation of some distribution extensions where water
demand should be urgently met. On the basis of the above priorities, the
following documents would be prepared: (i) extended terms of reference
including draft contract and invitatiorn documents for unaccotunted for water
studies; (ii) detailed design and bidding cocuments for treatment works; (iii)
terms of reference for detailed design of project components; (iv) bidding
documents for supply and installation of consumer ,,.ers, pipes and
bulkmeters; and (v) transfer of background d3cuments.
Procurement
8.5       Land acquisition for all subprojects would not p'se any problems and
would take place before negotiations. Procurement of civil works and goods
would be carried out in accordance with World Bank Guidelines and GOI
regulations. It is expected that all civil works would be awarded on the
basis of Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), materials and equipment contracts
which are generally less than $200,000 equivalent would be procured on the
basis of LCB. Only supply and installation of specific mechanical and
electrical equipment for treatment plants and pumping stations would be
procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Materials and
equipment of less than $50,000 equivalent would be procured on the basis of
prudent shorping. In line with presenit practice, it is expected to execute
part of the house connections ar.i repairs under Force Account up to a total of
$1,ooo, or v.
Project Implementation
8.6       Before project implenmentation special attention would be paid to an
aggregate limited of $300,000 establish abstraction rights for the water
resources of Palopo and Watampone which are also ubed for irrigation purposes.
lecause of the still unsatisfactory level of development of the water
enterprises, significant technical assistance is essential to achieve
institutional strengthening and satisfactory project implementation. It is
therefore, proposed to establish PMU's in each of the project provinces which



- 101 -
ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 14
would be responsible for the above mentioned activities. As all water
enterprises in Sulawesi are expected to be transferred into PDAM's before
project implementation, it is proposed that each PDAM wil be responsible for
its own procurement and project implementation.
Institutional Development
8.7       Except Manado and Palu which have a PDAM, the cities of Gorontalo,
Palopo and Watampone are served by APAM's. The three BPAM's are expected to
be transferred into PDAM's ty April 1, 1991.
Project Beneficiaries
8.8       The proposed projects would extend incremental water supply to the
following population:
Incremental Population Served
Number of            Population       Number of      Population
Hse. Connections (HC)      with H.C.    Standpipes (SP)  with S.P.
Bitu:ig            2,231                13,286              43          3,870
Watampone          1,556                  9,553              9             8i0
Palu               9,182                55,092              73           7,300
Goprontalo         3,C91                22,100             263/a       13,150
Palopo             3,674                20,243              25          6,925
Manado             5,105                 36,348             19           1,425
Total             24,839               156,722             432         33,840
/a   Mix of group connections and public taps.
8.9       It is clear that in Sulawesi imprcved customer relations would be
necessary to increase the number of house connections and public taps, and the
detrimental effect on potential customers of the present high connection
charges should be mitigated through one or more of the following options:
(a) Charging only the actual margindl cost; (b) deferred payment of
connection fees by installments over a period of five years; (c)
building coanection cost into tariffs; (d) laying service mains to
plot boundaries; (e) introduction of a by-law requiring connection
of properties within a certain distance of a distribution main, and
(f) the promotion of the installation of group connections.



- 102 -
ANNEX 6
Page 9 of 14
Proposed Water Supply facilities in Sulawesi
8.10      The works agreed with BPAM's and PDAM's would include:
Bitung: creation of distribution zoning, installation of pressure
reducing valves and bulle flow meters, installation of chlorination
dosing equipment and soda ash dosing equipment at dahowudu for a
capacity of 150 l/sec, construction of a 500 m3 capacity reservoir,
layir.g of about 24 km of distribution pipes; construction of about
2,400 service connections and 40 standpipes, and acquisition of
laboratory equipment and vehicles.
(Bone) Watampone, execution of an unaccounted for water reduction
and repair program. Installation of chlorination facilities for a
capacity of 100 1/sec at Walangi spring; installation of a pumping
station at Walangi spring equipped with two pumps of each 60 1/sec;
laying of about 35 km of distribution pipes; construction of about
1,700 service connections and 10 standpipes; conscruction of
additional stores and workshop, supply of maintenance equipment and
vehicles.
(Donggala) Palu, execution of an unaccounted for water reduction and
repair program laying of about 114 km of distribution pipes;
rehabilitation of civil and electro-mechanical works; replacement of
pum,)s, acquisition of laboratory equipment, construction of about
7,000 .ervice connections and 65 standpipes.
Gorontalo, execution of an unaccounted for water reduction and
repair program; study and improvement of existing intake at Bone
river for a capacity of 200 1/sec; rehabilitation of bulk meters,
laying of about 46 km of distribution pipes, construction of about
4,000 service connections and about 280 group connections and
standpipes; construction of a 1,000 m3 capacity reservoir,
construction of new 300 KVA PLN connection to PLN; construction of
office building, storage and workshop, and acquisition of
laboratory, maintenance equipment and vehicles.
(Luwu) Palopo, installation of new river intake for a capacity of
154 1/sec; laying of a transmission pipe of 300 nmn diameter and 500
m length extension of treatment plant for a total capacity of 120
1/sec, construction of a 1,000 m3 capacity reservoir with a 250 mm
diameter and 1,205 m long transmission pipe; installation of two
pumps of 16 1/sec 56 m head, laying of about 48,5 km of distribution
pipe; construction of about 5,500 service connections and 25 public
taps.
Manado, execution of an unaccounted for water reduction and repair
program, rehabilitation cf Paal Dua treatment plant for a capacity
of 350 1/sec; installation of chlorination facilities at Malayang
pumpstation 200 1/sec; Pantchuran 15 1/sec,. Teling borehole 20
1/sec, Airport borehole 20 1/sec, Kumahakar spring 130 1/sec,
rehabilitation of Panairan treatment works, Teling borehole and



- 103 -
ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 14
rehabilitation of Panairan treatment works, Teling borehole and
Airport borehole; construction of a new 40 1/sec borehole at
Pineleng; rehabilitation of Bahandyang pump station, installation of
a 100 1/sec 60 m head pump with 80 1/sec and 50 l/sec standby pumps;
Paniki borehole relocation for a capacity of 40 1/sec, construction
of a 500 ma capacity reservoir at BPT IV and a 2,000 ms capacity
reservoir at Paal Dua; replacement of about 3,5 km of distribution
pipes; laying of about 15 km transmission mains and of about 71 km
of distribution mains; installation of about 5,500 service
connections and 20 public taps; construction of offices and
laboratory; and acquisition of maintenance equipment and vehicles.
D. Technical Assessment of Water Supply Projects
(Irian Jaya Component)
Review of Water Demand Projections
9.1       The original masterplans and designs prepared for water supply in
Irian Jaya in 1985-1987 were reviewed and updated. The review was based on
(i) physical changes of water supply systems which were recently implemented;
(ii) additional surveys to assess water demand; and (iii) modified population
projections taking into account the results of recently executed IUIDP
studies. In all towns considerable improvement of service levels through
repairs, rehabilitation and metering had been executed by the management of
the BPAM's. Based on sound design criteria and least cost approaches to
satisfy future water demand, the following amendments to the original designs
were proposed:
(i) Jayapura, based on a new assessment of water demand, developing
the Kujabu river source in accordance with the existing
detailed design. This would provide adequate headwork capacity
which would be adequate in the long-term. No other major
changes are proposed.
(ii) Sorong, based on the results of water demand assessment reduce
per capita demand from 150 l/c/d to 90 l/c/d and reduce the
percentage of water users supplied from public stendpipes from
25 to 15 percent. As a result of the reduction in the demand,
develop a staged construction of the earlier proposed treatment
plant (50 percent of the original capacity). The majority of
the scheme elements remain essentially unchanged. However, the
operational complexity of the plump system may dictate the need
for additioral storage to increase service reliability.
(iii) Fak-Fak, no changes.
(iv) Nabire, no changes.
(v) Manokwari, there are no changes in per capita water demands.
However, population projections are reduced from 73,000 in 1995
to 43,000. Based on revised population projections demand has



- 104 -
ANNEX 6
Page l. of 14
proposed. In addition, less connections, distribution net work
extensions and storage will be needed.
(vi) B.ak, no changes.
(vii)  Serui, no changes.
(viii)  Wamena, the existing Wamena water supply includes a treatment
plant which is poorly designed. 1PPSAB has proposed low cost
modifications to existing filters to increase depth and fit
back wash facilities. This work is understood to be part of
the 1990/1991 works program and is not included in the project.
However because of recent increases in population development
of a new intake at Kali Walesi will be implemented under the
project.
Review of Technical Design
9.2       Although the overall recommendations are acceptable and offer an
appropriate approach to development of improved service levels, the detailed
technical design prepared for the project towns would be reviewed and modified
to guarantee the safety of operation of the proposed works. Moreover, the
agreed modifications of the water supply schemes need additional detailed
design of intakes, storage, distribution systems, pumping stations and
chlorination facilities in several towns. It is estimated that review and
modification of available detailed design and preparation of additional
detailed design would require the input of local and foreign consultants.
Review of Bidding Documents
9.3       All draft bidding documents pertaining to the original detailed
design for civil works and related supplies were prepared by Consultants.
However, these bioding documents need to be completed with bills of
quantities. It is expected that the inputs needed for (i) modifying the
detailed designs; (ii) preparation of additional detailed design and bidding
documents; (iii) optimal packaging of works and supplies; and (iv) completion
of the bills of quantities, will be provided by a team of local and foreign
consultants.
Procurement
9.4       Land acquisition for all projects would not pose any problems and
will take place before negotiations. It is expected that all civil works are
small and would be awarded to prequalified contractors under local competitive
bidding (LCB). It is not expected that significant amounts of materials and
equipment can be supplied from within Irian Jaya. The contracts for supply of
pipes, fittings, water meters and steel reservoirs which are in excess of
$200,000 equivalent would therefore, be tendered under the international
competitive bidding (ICB). It is proposed that mechanical equipment (pumps,
motors, generators and chlorinators) which need maintenance services from
companies with established agents within Indonesia are procured on the basis



- 105 -
ANNEX 6
Page 12 of 14
of local competitive bidding. These contracts for the equipment will be less
than $200,000 equivalent. Miscellaneous goods costing less than $50,000
equivalent up to an aggregate limit of $400,000 may be procured by prudent
shopping. In line with present practice many house connections are carried
out by the BPAM's themselves. Therefore part of the house connections and
repairs would be carried out under Force Account.
9.5       The efficient implementation of the proposed water supply systems in
Irian Jaya will pose a serious challenge, because of the lack of experienced
contractors and the logistical difficulties created by the large distances
between relatively isolated water supply companies which require important
external support. Therefore, a project management unit which provides
training for the enterprise staff at all levels is proposed to be established
in Jayapura. Although the BPAM Jayapura will soon be transferred to a PDAM,
it is proposed that the PDAM would delegate all responsibility for management
of procurenment and project implementation to the above mentioned unit.
Institutional Development
9.6       The transfer of responsibilities from BPAM to PDAM will take place
by April 1991, but no information on the expected dates for the other BPAM's
is available.
Project Beneficiaries
9.7        The proposed projects would extend incremental water supply to the
following population:
Incremental Population Served
Number of            Population        Number of      Population
Hse. Connections (HC)       with H.C.    Standpipes (SP)  with S.P.
Jayapura           6,125                 42,875             202          20,200
Sorong             5,802                 40,614              88           8,800
Fak Fak               179                 1,432              24           2,400
Nabire             1,272                  8,804              37           3,700
Manokwari           2,350                16,450              80           8,000
Biak               1,930                 14,450              78           7,800
Serui                 667                 5,336              43           4,300
Wamena                400                  2,800             11           1,100
Total             18,725                132,886             563          56,300
E.  Detailed Description of Water Supply Facilities in Irian Ja



- 106 -
ANNEX 6
Page 13 of 14
10.1      The project components which have been discussed and agreed with
PPSAB/BPAM's would provide for the following facilities in addition to
unaccounted for water reduction and repair programs:
Javapura: Development of a new intake at high level on Kali Kujabu
with a usable yield for 270 1/sec chlorination facilities with a
total capacity of about 300 1/sec, laying of a 500 mm diameter
transmission main of about 25 km length of Kali Jujabu to Jayapura
and replacement of the minor transmission remains by mains of higher
replacement of other minor transmission maintains by mains of higher
capacity, rehabilitatior/replacement of about 30 km of distribution
mains and laying of about 38 km of new distribution mains,
construction of storage reservoirs of approximately 6,000 m'
capacity, rehabilitation of about 2,000 connections, installation of
about 5,000 water meters in unmetered connections and construction
of about 6,000 new connections and 200 standpipes. Other facilities
including workshops, pipe storage areas, offices maintenance
equipment etc.
Sorong: Development of a new intake weir and pumping station on the
existing Sungai Remu Source for a capacity of about 130 l/sec and a
pumping head of about 20 m, construction of a 60 1/sec capacity slow
sand filter treatment plant with chlorination facilities at Remu,
laying of about 9.5 km 150 to 300 mm diameter transmission mains;
laying of about 39 km of distribution mains; construction of 2
storage reservoirs of 500 and 750 ms capacity; rehabilitation of
1,500 connections, including installation of about 500 meters in
unmnetered connections, including installation of about 500 meters in
unmetered connections and construction of about 5,000 new
connections and 80 standpipes.
Other facilities including workshops, pipe storage areas, offices
maintenance equipments etc.
Fak-Fak, rehabilitation of the existing treatment plant for a
capacity of 20 1/sec, laying of about 4 km 80 to 150 mm diameter
transmission mains rehabilitation of storage and construction of 2
reservoirs of 100 ms capacity. laying of about 2.5 km of
distribution mains, rehabilitation of 135 connections installation
of meters in ... unmetered connections and installation of about 130
new connections and 20 standpipes.
Other facilities including workshops, pipe storage areas, offices
maintenance equipment etc.
Nabire, development of a new groundwater source and chlorination
facility for a capacity of 27 1/sec, construction of a pumping
station with a capacity of 27 1/sec and a head of about 25 m, laying
of about 1.5 km 150 to 200 mm diameter transmission main laying of
about 1.5 km 150 to 200 mm diameter transmission main laying of
about 32 km distribution mains, construction ox a 500 ms reservoir



- 107 -
ANNEX 6
Page 14 of 14
about 1.5 km 150 to 200 mm diameter transmission main laying of
about 32 km distribution mains, construction of a 500 ma reservoir
on Bukit Meriam; construction of about 1,150 connections and 35
standpipes.
Other facilities including workshops, pipe storage areas, offices
maintenance equipment etc.
Manokwari, development of a new intake at Kali Dingin with a
capacity of 400 1/sec, construction of a pumping station with
chlorination facilities with a capacity of 40 1/sec and a head of
100 m, laying of 14 km 50 to 250 mm diameter transmission mains,
laying of about 46 km new distribution mains, construction of 4
reservoirs of 100 to 300 ma capacity; and construction of about
2,300 connections and 80 standpipes. Other facilities including
workshops, pipe storage areas, offices, maintenance equipment etc.
Biak, development of additional pump facilities at Snerbouw in a
capacity of 50 1/sec and a head of 60 m and 13 1/sec and a head of
90 m; chlorination facilities for a capacity of 60 1/sec; laying of
45 km 200 to 350 mm diameter transmission mains; lay'ng of 49 km new
distribution mains, rehabilitation of 400 m8 storage facilities and
construction of 2 reservoirs of 500 and 300 mJ capacity,
rehabilitation of 1,600 connections, installation of meters in 800
unmetered connections and construction of about 1,800 new
connections and 80 standpipes.
Other facilities including workshops, pipe storage areas offices
maintenance equipment etc.
Serui, incorporation of recently constructed intake of 20 1/sec
capacity on tributary of Kali Matuembo, screening sedimentation for
a capacity of 20 1/sec; chlorination facilities for a capacity of 20
1/sec, laying of about 30 km of distribution mains; construction of
a reservoir with a capacity of 500 m3; rehabilitation of 60
connections; installation of 75 meters in unmetered connections and
construction of about 700 service connections and 40 standpipes.
Wamena, development and construction of intakes at Kali Walesi and
Blaget construction of clorination facilities, laying of about 10
km, 200 mm diameter transmission pipe and construction of 500 ma of
storage capacity improvement of treatment and construction of
chlorination facilities for a capacity of 12 1/sec laying of about 9
km of distribution mains; construction of about 460 service
connections and 60 standpipes. Other facilities including
workshops, pipe storage areas, offices, maintenance equipment etc.



- 108 -                     ATEX 7
Page 1 of 4
INDONESIA
SULAWESI - IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. WATER SUPPLY
1. Net present value (NPV) and economic rate of return (ERR) were
estimated for each water supply subproject. In order to cope with
the large number of (relatively small) subprojects, Bank staff
proposed the application of a simplified methodology.
2. Economic benefits of water supply projects are equal to the
consumers' willingness to pay for water plus external health
benefits, i.e. prevention of infections caused to others (outside
of someone's own household). The external health benefits, since
are intangible, formally don't enter the economic analysis. In
large cities with well functioning water supply systems there are
usually enough information to obtain a reasonably good estimate of
the consumers' demand function. The water demand function, in turn,
can be used to estimate willingness to pay.
3. Lack of data and expertise and the proliferation of intermittent
water supply systems generally made the application of this
"traditional" method impossible in Sulawesi and Irian Jaya. The
proposed simplified methodology divides piped water consumption
into two parts: the first part replaces the previous source (e.g.
wells, rivers, vendors) of water use, while the second part is a
net increase in water consumption. Benefit of the first part is
equal to the cost savings (actual payments plus own labor) of
consumers who no more need to use other sources of water supply
(this is the so-called alternative cost valuation method). Benefit
of the second part, i.e., of incremental water use, is still has
to be estimated using the concept of willingness to pay and that
way depends on how accurately the demand function was estimated.
However, the share of total benefits due to incremental water use
is usually small and the information collected in order to estimate
the benefit of the first part can be used to estimate one point on
the demand curve. The full demand function is estimated by
providing the coordinates of a fictitious low price - high quantity
point on the demand curve and assuming a linear relationship
between price and water demand (the method is not very sensitive to
the assumption regarding the shape of the water demand curve and to
small perturbations in the coordinates of the low price - high
quantity point).
4. Two simple, user friendly software programs were developed along
these lines to assist the project preparation teams with economic
analysis. The programs compare subproject costs and benefits and
calculate NPV and ERR estimates (the pi7ograms use a discount rate
of 10% for NPV calculations). The programs are also useful for
sensitivity analysis. A more detailed desc,iption of the programs
(one for small projects and one for larger ones) with the



- 109 -                     ANNEX 7
Page 2of 4
mathematical formulas can be found in the project files.
5. Further simplification in the applied methodology was allowed by
the possibility of estimating a lower bound for the ERR.   The
method relies on the financial internal rate of return (FIRR)
calculated with constant prices to obtain the lower bound estimate.
When an expansion/rehabilitation of an already existing system is
proposed and (a) there is no real water price increase projected;
(b) changes in water consumption per connection are fully explained
by projected changes in the real income and composition of
customers, then the FIRR can be used as a proxy for the lower bound
of ERR.
6. The estimated piped water consumption levels, which served as
input to both the economic and financial analysis programs, took
into account both consumer wealth (income growth) effects and price
effects. Demand analysis carried out in Jakarta, Bogor and Surabaya
found a 0.6 elasticity of water demand with respect to income and
a -0.1 to -0.5 elasticity with respect to price. For the purpose of
this project, income elasticity of 0.6 and price elasticity of -0.2
were used to estimate per connection consumption levels for all
water supply systems.
7. The main results from the economic analysis of water supply
subprojects are summarized below:
City (local gov.)       NPV        ERR         AIC    Present tariff
(Rp. bill)     (%)       (RpTcum)       (Rp/cum)
Watampone (Bone)       0.5          12.8         486            302
Palopo (Luwu)          0.1          10.4         361            230
Manado                 4.4          14.0         333            357
Gorontalo              0.0           9.7         456            330
Donggala (Palu)        4.7          14.6         410            363
Jayapura              12.5          16.8         677            370
Biak                   2.5          16.2         710            792
Sorong                10.6          22.0         694            450
Fak Fak                0.4          13.4         935            303
Nabire                 1.4          16.6         802            458
Serui                  0.0          10.0        1057            290
Wamena                 0.1          11.0        1004            290
Manokwari              0.1          10.3        1132            261
B. DRAINAGE
7. The overwhelming major_.iy of drainage subprojects are very
small, i.e. cost less than Rp 400 million (about US$ 0.2 million).
Case by case economic analysis (i.e. calculation of ERR and NPV)
was required only for the larger ones which typically cost Rp 600 -
1500 million. The benefits of these drainage subprojects were
estimated either i) on the basis of avoided flood damages or ii)



ANNEX 7
- 110 -                     Page 3 of 4
land value increases and road maintenance cost reductions. Since
estimation of the cost of flood damages requires very detailed
surveys and the analysis of several type of costs, preparation
preferred the second, less time consuming approach. The advantage
of this approach is obvious: land value increase, if land markets
function properly, is an indicator which can reflect the present
value of the future benefit stream accruing to the owners of the
land in the project area. The projected increases in land values
were based on comparison of land values in the project area to land
values in similar, but less frequently flooded neighborhoods.
Information on land values were collected during interviews with
kelurahan (sub-district) staff handling land transactions and with
informal real estate brokers. Reductions in road maintenance costs
were estimated on the basis of local experience.   Only those
drainage projects are included in the proposed project which have
a positive NPV.
C. URBAN ROADS
8. The Urban Road Directorate of the Ministry of Public Works
issued an "Urban Road Planning and Programming Manual" to guide the
preparation of all IUIDP projects. Preparation of the manual was
partly financed from the technical assistance components of the
Regional Cities Urban Transport Project (Loan no. 2817-IND) and the
Urban Sector Loan (Loan no. 2816-IND). Economic analysis of all
road subprojects were based on the application of this manual.
Using information obtained from site specific traffic and road
condition surveys, the manual is an easy to use tool to estimate
the benefits of urban road rehabilitation, betterment, widening and
new urban road projects. Two kinds of benefits were estimated:
vehicle operation cost savings and time benefits, which, if
compared to the costs, made it possible to calculate ERR or NPV of
the subprojects. Further simplification was allowed for subprojects
with a cost below Rp 2 billion (about US$ 1.1 million). For each
class of road and type of road improvement, the manual also
calculates the minimum traffic level which makes the improvement
economically viable (detailed description of the methodology and
assumptions used in the manual is available in the project files).
A proposed road improvement was considered acceptable if the
average daily traffic on the road was higher than the cut-off level
determined that way.
D. OTHER SUBSECTORS
9. A high portion of the benefits of human and solid waste
management and market infrastructure improvement subprojects are
intangible and accrue to the local community as a whole and not
only to the direct recipients of these services. Therefore, there
was no requirement to carry out a formal comparison of costs and
benefits, however, for subprojects with a cost of more than Rp 400
million, it had to be demonstrated that the proposal was the least
cost solution which achieves the desired environmental impact.



-1ill1-                    ANNEX 7
Page 4 of4
Kampung improvement subprojects deliver a standard package of
infrastructure services which was proven to be economically viable
in several Bank financed projects before. Since the economic
analysis of that kind of investments is very costly and the
concentration of expenditures is low, the economic viability of
proposed kampung improvements, as long as those are following the
agreed standards, was presumed.



INDONESIA                                                                                ANNEX 8
SULAWESI-IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                               Page 1 of 15
BPAM Sorong
231 111 C.1
2"                                                                                IKH    SAlTOE
2"                                                                                                                                                    111U1" wits
2W ---   --- --- ---                                 -------------------------                                      __------ --___ __*   -
29                                                           of"9191        "I191         91192        92113         13114         14195        1519          9im          91I"          9319         "IN6          Islet
294 Sevic.  am  hpu atim                        14,1136      77,60         3,470         03,960       01,600        91,39         95,30   n       ,410      103,0        34023         112,16       117,30        122,96
29  fpl.ti    So Ned                                35?          371           sit           40!           421          52?            2I          69?           76           77?           2W           m              n
29
21 Dete  Cuuucuu  I 360)                         2.267        L.22          4.223         4.720        5.223         6.532         7.4           9.346       10.463       11.110       1M.76         12.412        13.4
23 CMe           tim  13UMulhlO tiu.2          29.934       30.177        22.16,        22.353       22.358         2.5s0        22.7 e       22.C2        22.6          23.310        23.n3        24.377        24.602
29 %s1.. s1od ilillim  i3)                       0.313        1.216         3.123         1.266         1.401        1.176         2.136         2.039        2.073        3.315         3.314        L.654         3.95
in
301 I MOKcE tt*Ifr later                             1           22?           40?           3            33?           2?            23?          20           20            20t           1            20            20?
32 lter PreKt. gilla   11                         .           1.S55         1.372         2.042        2.092         2.493         2.J74        3.129        3.m           L.9           4.21         ;.Sj          4.94S
303  rsp  lrtwif (4M1                              311          421           449           416          505           535           5617         60           3             353           am           919           90
304
M0  Vurf ldao    M   (lillim  Ipi              25Y.21        511.57        504.46       602.67        707.09        14.71       1,210.79     1,104.3      2,31.52       2,6.06        2,.          3,35317.13    3,63.3
I   C_etinm  li. 33.01                                                                                                            I0.9         172.99       223.02        21?.ff        17m.f5       1ot.6          37.06
307 Less Allsmut.   mw ld bbts                                              97.00        87.07         01.74         91.56        117.56       146.3        231.73        250.6        290.0         32.16         353.06
3__                                           -     -   -- --  ----- - - --- --- - ----- - --------- - ----_- - -----  -  ---- -  - -------------                                                                  --
30  TMAL 1      TIS  KhEIS                    25.21         511.57        407.37        5152.        625.35        617.24      1,194.20     2,530.96     2351.04       2,606.45     2,317.79      3,40.23       3,323.01
320
32l Prmml                                       n9.s6        303.24         90.29        201.96       174.49        247.51        323.64       433.62       507.70        567.33        42.32        733.9        302.7n
322 Pow                                         45.14         n1.31        165.71        131.64       200.6U        260.2         39.33        370.24       453.3'        517.62       594.24        612.20        773.49
313 Cseacal,                                      9.22        23.96         29.9         23.71         29.03         35.21         42.03        52.2t        36.03         67.53         71.52        11.93
314 lAIGtI.We  N1tetialS                        47.29         49.3s         44.56        47.25         6.34          33.14         93.53       103.72       114.20        122.;         129.06       137.65        145.91
3135  ramn4srtts                                 33.44        23.22         14.45         15.32        16.24         37.21        1.25         29.34        20.30         23.73        23.04         24.42         25.73
316 Adesstratiml6ugral                          49.02         72.25         19.31        22.10         25.15         23.41         32.14        56.16        42.41         46.16        52.1          31.44         63.1
Il il                                                                        9.U3         10.84        13.63         16.41         I3."         21.06        23.59         ;:.Is        23.24        35.14          23.41
su1
310
J3  Nl.I IPf3016 EIMSES                        259.29        315.32        U4.13        417.11        533.12        613.54        343.07      102.51       1217.61       139.03       U47.24        170.44        1339.24
322 2K      EFO   KPECITIU                       40.07)      126.25         43.24        97.71         92.23        213.70        351.24       520.45     1,2".23       1,23.62      1 323.55      1,399.78      I,413.n
M    W.Ut SS                                   394.13        41.62         451.25       430.51        369.36        776.95        924.45     1,032.06     1,140.23      1,230.62     1323.35       1,39.71       1,4U3.77
32 In-ca EmpraUt rn
In I 12U  IK                                 1394.11    32901.373       I40.012       3332.72)     3496.13)      3573.25)      1573.31)     4322.611                      0.36         0.40          0.00          0.40
326
321 brti.ll btrnt
33 Other aWo   Jot)                              3.34         10.33         12.31         33.51        14.39         15.26         16.17        17.14        13.1i         19.26        20.42         21.64         22.61
329 i1  INm   ibl.wt tIax)                     235.842      (27t.541      (395.202      (36.If)      3482.541      (562.9)       (557.141     (304.41)       13.17         39.26        20.42         21.64         22.31
33  Ig u TM                                                                                                                                                   3.54          3.32         4.10          4.41          4.70
33  I   IElT   (alter tag)                    1305.041      (279.541      1395.201     (S69.141      0482.541      1562.993      1557.141     3304.462       146           15.45        16.33         17.23         13.10
332
334                    _-
A-E         w  per IO Sold IRNO                   311          317           324           330           3e           31'           395          4U           424           440           459          476           465
336  ratia  Relio                                100.0?        7S.3?         19.4?        31.01         35.31         71.6?         10.6?        66.7?        51.6          52.?         54.n1         55.41         55.31
31 t atuq ltia                                  252.11        156.3?        200.2n       174.21        179.51        165.2!        141.41       114.12      I.0!                 10e.01 300.02              100.01 13.0
8        act wm   -  kumus                          a         -54.6?        -97.0?       -71.6U        -77.21        -63.5?        -46.7?       -33.0          0.n1          0.n 1e.11                  0.11          0.71
339 3l [mer""e    s  T ariffs                                  22.01
S"  lKr    is        tinwatr                                   97.4?        -20.4?        26.6!         21.3?         41.91         34.6?        2e.f         .4.0?         10.6?         9.?            .5 s5 s.
341 Inrtu ia letr SIll                                         49.21         -7.61         12.7:        10.71         26.21         20.!t        17.21        34.3?          *.4?         3.32           3.7?          31.3
342  erwap lAwIs late km                     6,010.97      6,316.40     6,311.85      6,256.27      7,870.56    11,047.41    13,101.36    14,067.1    14,353.62    15,221.51    15,024.44    14,565.74    13,97."1
34S lt, at  It.rm -  k,aI,d k4wts                -6.5!         -4.61         -6.51        -6.12         -6.3?         -5.21         -4.41        -3.7!                       0.0?         6.3           0.0?          0.6?
344
345 UIE:  o   to r_ dim, tOs last diavt at the totals say be liltiruit  from the sol of the col..f.
34    16-kt-9



5U1WAI00 616 00M WOW 54  04 1951.1W sq A041 WW  60 eq 4Iq 1996t  *99554 am
609          60-          603          601          601          6009         6006         606              1         60P0         6001-        6065                             in9v6'ZsUt "_p_
0f-6606      s9316'3e     a Ogg9       o   d,09     Ls 616,U-    to  01         69olz  low9-St  or O     e1 tCOt      it 303       901U-O9      99K03        zip OS6W V6 _ _
1190         H2E %0a  %660                          sh Ft        6C as          364        %va           %a #_        W pi %09  60e%1 %3Em mm01 Wte  m_ _
tt 9           t &        VA  aOtZi                                LI %t oC ^w0 090                      %S *s00      *9 09        %I-          %9C ct- - ^_ado4a"
60I-         %09          %v &-        %g3-         SS5          60`0-        %Oet         600- ao01                  %,o-         6090- t       0001                                      ""I99jeoo-_ _4 P9
%a A  W 9  %to  %1, se      ftc zi        %SC           %Z el        %$'V-       , ,,          %r at        %I 9         %0 bes       % t                               - aMO N
%V-U         6  pi        %6           %f6          603          606        %6  co        %6 to       %6011          4bis1        %S W0        %i 093       690                          5       am         a   lo
%W n         6091o        61b00        603t         % 609        %0`69        %16St        %009          %  I6t 0111                093 Si619t               6010o                                   _     _qq"
a  t         C  ec    e     V            s               w       N  l              l       oot)          C0,0         UAk          m            ot'W              t                       ot ___1P  _9m       A
nntp1        eect         9 Ice        ee t          16s         *9            00U  U       000Z)       Gtod Ce      (     )       00o0I 60                  060                         Om-A
90et        e Is.        etz -e        a            Kt           isCs         O ezi        e0tl         oCIIt       iue Die                       w Osl as_                                              _'tbo   V "
as el"      03 no         99-19        d 99         10           61 VW' a      6           ( st  ll     Ui e93      (33 tOil CA.e  a  a         So           goi ee eseem e eee                 _        a_
9151        191Z5t1       35 16A       v9mug        to 9*1 U5 69 1t           90106c1                      boo 9C CZ              EM i)         30           99-0406                        3fo *o   M1964e
00 0         00 0         00 0         00 0         000a         00 0         00 0         00 0         000           00 0         00 0         00 0         000                           sea.sis*3 V699
oo o        eK h or       eec I  IS Lao             oCC'  Ivs,   KOM          G o o        e otlw        I eo  Ko                  is  ooz      l o au       ee Duopo
a t5t        s as 6e3     gicLl        30.t  c  o _ 5 IN c       19 119       VD i so6t     6  we' 1     It 1*L       19           c0 lo0t      to 0w        l06WV               NwouVK)    310AU0S
1              0, VICE                   99 gmsi                   (L 5193      Ii coOS      UUI          Is3    AM6   zts 919u                  ea1on        Os 999       et'KC Ct1 3113 db6A OWW1L
0699          o     Z 6e                            eu1           ee9 166n 30                          ne9 60  066                            oe9         eee 0  00 
*4             6990                                  to1 613      669n          ei           WZls 6f99i               1s9e 13       6099e        9,1           9993         9                                     _9
it V         so0 o        LI           losew           9         to6et        113          is IC         Ise           o991       Ctl             s993       16e3                                   _ -s
SoPI e         Leo        JUI ew ns *w hetl                      &e           e -oc        seteo        toC          eee           eeoZ  Ic                  eeer _V a4PM  WB
000          000a         isW          so91  Mt9    990 &        PI at1       9901         9900c        00 0         606o          00           so's         900                                     opb
000          000   00      0    00      0    00 a600              0    00 a000               000 6s 00                      000   WV06 a066                                                              sm
co PM        K 06013      MOM&6        a MA$        001Mt1      e630061       CO CIOL         o          se696t*      eV9 9gm      Govo         K PMl        61161t                                 OI60U
St lo        3065         al-si    c i S            It OK        goOtt        0133l        C33.1        000           000                                                                       se-ued Go  a  _  u9s at  s _
631001e      9009 a"        1939 9i131,             31A 161        9           10061t       191993 M's9as set 9s3                  tottwl       039as        0606 ez  tteus oemsm owl
66  OIl  9.  916         996          099          CII          13          931          693 1_.3_69                              ____
Gic-0        o-           "to          anc_          uoo         c Aeu        *veo         et"9          uz    sell                t*t Ot 9      O- ee         ee                     Wo "SO    w-ow*w A
0910         001          91110        69            106        %01           91    199  O 96                      9963        %al9          %S3          %9CC                     963 l     U990i01jA  %
3036 0s061                out          6160         6999        1gs9          a1-9 6esc  0z                 1         9L93c        6103         6113         L9                          kW eee  eee  eee
91913        69K06         op190       910u0     ue69         en  06          36 S        ut0           903          cm39e        39t31 0t3                  131 Cf  sa
in61s        us6          61so 003      1 016s      633It        31161         9009St       on3et        3u it        0wl&         01911        13311         9116                        (0601559955UI&
t4t.           Cams         W            usiaz       etarn         6*9          919             e            tiatus    als          iwag          gin           m
Oc t'"        ct'a         net-u        Mwet         ez104       selet        Oteec        ew           9etst  eWK    Gt,9e6         ut'C        ulerI         uegt              (    _    -    _    - oSWIAl
ta      oou           WM           svs          am           e sm         NM      (    MM           tmal                       o
1M1~~~~~~ N1NThNVLSNO
wee e w& us s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tjn                                       ,v         wal                                                               t'  3e_v
lN3Wl31VlS 3fl'2NI
vundrAYr  I4dS                                                                       l3 ~1Vi
* 3Vy          Iq 
iLaroda 43WdOUaAW Nvufn vAvr NVaII-ISaHmV'S
SI Jo Z .aSd                                                                   VISNOUNI
8 XMNM



INDONES IA                                                               ANNEX 8
SUILAWESI-IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                          Page 3 of 15
31 33IE cl                                                                   BPAM Biak
33                                                                        . I      l 5t&11l16
2nm                                                                                                                                         InLIn W33m3
m                                            O;2sem "no                %M  e|"1 42  4"M                      "I"          "I* ts    ",  N m  s171                           Om           "M           W
m                                                               - ------------------------.-- -- -.- ------------------- ---- - --------
6.11W       . Itad                          3,0          39,M         4,640       42'W"        44,23        41,30        41. 9    n   100         i2,3"        14,1        3,33         16,100m  n
3b_wk         see  lU                                        in           193         ml         3s2            413          in3         113          l           m             U           191        In
ar %W   *   um        i m1.l 1.9                         1.3          1.1          3.I31       3.60         2.11         2.012       3.30         JL           GUI          .3          4.1         0.936
pj mmif    0 uwm.ba.1..g1.,                 a.                 n.       sim.0     21.6111      21.123       21.114       21.1191     21.3         21.mn       5.1111       VL21         211          am
3" Ikow 1  i _ lu U)                         6.ml  0       .30        0.41         c122         0.114        0.123       0.613        1.019        3.191       n.711        1.412        3.13       l3.
t_ o   .  .. wb  .,                           23      |     9l                                   1L     .    193                       a.       b a
XI bw  pohi. 16111. El                       L.          L0.n 13        .11)       0.32         0.611        1.030        8.133       L2e          3.4          3.021                    1..10
Sjt~~1                                          14           192 n          640       US            13         363          3000t         }13         13*        n160
Jo *         Orin d   1I t                                                  Z   SuI  nw n u
in sw3m  61...  0ii3e apt                   3101.         M5."        u1."5       430.10       313.96       *101.30      PLO         ^3,63        611.117      914.41    8,303061,1314      1,1111131.31
39 ~11 Iu  FM                                 LO0          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        31.11        6.11        131.19      301.02       31.0:        S1."         3.41I
tgUN lkm   o       he 0131m$                0.00         0.0         3."4        181.13   111 v."          U I          312W4       101.56        1.30        93.331     361.4        131.14      'UL:
34                                                                       ---                        -         ----- --
JWo  UIF[11              5 111135.6119M1" M1.22                                                413.31        3.          U6.09     3,0*.4         1111.31      mie       I'M.n"    3,9u            1JUL91
3.
x    _ Um I                                 ILD           2."1        4l.3       1.           91.691      834.111 3    311.11 217.3             219.331 331.01           3.1           0.i         9.nH
il2 f.,                                      91.33        3.09        31.00        11.31        34.31        4.6          W1."0       13.96        92.31                   In.1  2."4   342.1        111
331 Caks                                       .0          0.00         0.09        9."         8."          1.33         19.5         4.          311.13       v."         V."          43.61        6.
3306 14imi      b  anlc                       .14         0.34         9.1        110.21       1.90          n.34        3..11       3." G.f                   41.3        6.1           1.04 1n.3
mbuilaIin                                     L9           4.00       310.31       31.14        501.31        9          201 .1 21      .          2 n   n31    2 n.  4."   A".          I1."        19.11
316  stimAkwal                    11~~.21      11.00       H.91         33.1?        11.1$       81.93        20.3         22.4*        261.30      19.00        32.34       11.31        i9.5
D1 M                                         0.0          0.0          4.00        1.0          1.28         1.63        9.2          30.0        32.96        1           12 34.41     31.01        O.
330                                           0.0          0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         L.O         0.00         0.09         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.09        0.00
349                                                                                          ------------------------ -----.----------.----  -------.----------.------ -------- .---------
39 U 1111.11P111311 11tY                     IL"2        W0.4"        MA.1        316.44        91.31        MAI.        331.33      436.09       31.38        11.13       ,142.301      MA.1        30.12
311  11111[      EiUi3*3                    132.31       M0.11        33.L2       22.31        21.9         311.30       190.19      042.013      319.01       433.11      431.131      4.913       49A.
3M  hpuia.m                                  21.0         as.6         K1."        92.3         M2.6        811.201      211.22      331.12        MM.6        413.03      43.08        4*4.13       mm2.
34 Se-ia   I .twm.                            0.00         0.0          0.00        0.00         0.00          .00        0.00         0.00         0.0          0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
336
M  OW kmI hOaMt                             LO           0.00         0.00        6.0          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        V.11
in  mw  u    aInl)                        3.81         3.00        .3.0         3.11         4.31         L1.1         1.41       80.14        80.38        2.6         04.00        19.35      33.A
39 m3 OM         4w lo e tl                  00.1        3111.13      111.14      343.30        331.44      363.06      23.0         m.s           81.31        21.61       04.00        1.33      133.11
13        to                                  9.111       3u.31        24.31       43.20        42.41 n1. U11                  1.11 30.:1           3.03         1.41l                               4."  .  3  a
33 Km11    3.41W Llas                        14."         11      .31  12.          1.12        91.99       821.11      16.3 118.       31.2       83.00        6.00        34.001       11.3      3INA
313
313 mum soi
39
u                          lops                              M          Vs            M           344 3a11                 3W           480 , ,  ,,,;,,
3111 64                                       0.33         3.31        42.11        is."         43.111      48.9        w0 0           9.          1.121       3.I          39.43       01.6
M                                 B~~~~~~2.11   11          n2.21        31.11       31.3,        3.13         2.12-6      30.413.1                     a41                     nU
M31.  htone. is lalik                                                   La1 00       0.-2         0.01        0.0          1.101        0.1         10.401       10.01       0.01         L.K
M  hEmm is lowatlMob13.03                                 4.A        5.n          10.12         001        3.2.8        211.11      -31.3        18.011       301.01      I0.3
3M  hoes. is                                               24.1        20.1         32.41        80.0"       21.0         20.11        31.31        31.9         11.111      I.E          01.93 1
M4 Ows  hod's. hI. 6.3,13.4                            1,30          193.43     5,301.03     2,31.69      1,141.41    1,319.       6o,1324      1,311.31    111.3.1      1,0. 1       ,000.42"L   ?,14A1
M4361at mo 1' a hwoai.i ou                    2.1.          1.11        1.2           .1          .1.1        E.1          4.33         .0.9       10.01        0LK          0.1         0.01        0.011
M Ml ho I. raw"s, 3613tat1digit I totwig my6 OUtlefft fro. them u8o thu ntim..
14 *40-11



ANNEX R
INDONESIA                                                    Page 4 of 15
SULAWF.SI-IRIAN JAYA l'RBAN DFVEIOPMFNT PROJECT
2"1E t.l UBPAM Fak Fak
2"                                                                               IEO   sIArs>"T
m ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ICIESIEEINILLIBN IN31
290                                                                                                                                                     --_-
m                                               NM            off"         III1          1111         12113        13114         94115         913/1       -11917        17/93         "i"          "If           Niel
213                                              -------         ---  -  -_--- -- - - -------                                                                       - ------ - - 
294 lvice  Area PpIdati                        346           14,0         15,130       15            31,250      1U,150         17,4I1 1                    39            71         N,1           21520        22,470
m   hps1ati  lined                                                11 in1                                  t          i4n               17t4                    11         13 on     2 U1              I31          1i
291 l4ter f6mertuu, I Ml                        3.12I         1.310        1.241        1.25          1.272         1.314        1.31          1.402        1.445          .41         1.40u        1.49         3. 4
29  Cim.tlm  iuii i nc.ti.i                    22.930       21.291        25.2U        25.20         25.326       25.1.0        25.9m1       21.420        U.350        21.350       21.350        21.35        21.350
21 %m  bu.  (will" B                            0.310        LU            0.311        0.312         L.U          6.465    *     .425    U     .444        0.445    u    .445    *     .445        6.4U         0.445
33
303 1  acm tu|iv-lw  Uate                          13            13           50t          4tm2           3t          m             23     l                   21           26t          20            20          t1
302 Eat. fvsbKU t  I3II3   U:                   1.60          L.6          1.754        0.141        0.5717        0.510          .541        L.5S          L.54         0.55*         0.554        LS .'55
303 liway  11f  ("I                               21           2m4           in           321           341          341           440          447           M            102          749           1            621
304
in   ariffi  _mumn llli   Epi                3.41         15.05        314.         122.14        13.45        1411.        I2S4.2        201.31        29.3         312.24       332.13        355.21       35.61
36 Ct_   cti Fm                                  6.L5          1.44        11.77         4.37          0.2t         1.51          3.43         5.52          1.11         1.33         5. I          3.16         3.I0
301 La   Ul_ nce r 2w   ii ts                   17.03        n1.31         22.3S        24.53         21.33        21.22         27.12        20.74         21.37        31.23        33.26         35.52        34.50
306                     I __-                                                                    --__-_ --_________-____-____- - -_ -- _    ------ ----_ - --___--_-__-.                                 -
30  mm   WIUm  won                              75.12        33.10        103.1U       162.41        365.41       1111.S.       11.U 5       212.17        270.12       2S7.7        304.U1        372.11       321.U1
IN
I I htrumel                                     42.14        54.0          57.7n        70.94         33.31        14.12        321.35       122.23        135.12       144.00       152.72       1U1.U         110.5
H Cokals                                         3.11          3.30         I."          7.34          4.94         7.21          7.41         7.94          3.42         3.12         9.46         10.63        30.51
34 *aiatnmu    Eatnial3                         31.3L          1.11         2.81         2.16          1.11         1.52        13.97         11.40         12.44        13.11         13.91        14.81        15.70
335 l  dsptatin                                  37            4.34         4.01         4.25          4.53         4.73          5.07         5.31          5.1 U.04                  1.40          A i.s        1.15 
S1U Uialst,atiUmluaual                          I3."         13.13          3.74         5.71         12.11        14.65         15.54        24.47         11.41        36.53        19.12        20.1          13.57 I
I1l                 -_                                                      1.16         2.03          3.63         ;.S           3.10         4.15          4.40         4.11         4.14          5.24         4.5    U
3      A N6 MTI 3111                            72.22        90n.23       7n.29         93.2        IU.5          131.63        154.73       173.34        234.33       195.39       207.32       219.54       22.0.7
3m2 I1     I       .vmtam                         .9,        17.U31       24.6           9.23         0.          117.U4)        41           16.2         lb."          91.17        97.41       303.34       19.SX
32  orin tim                                    22.11        23.91        24.71         21.39        33." 44       437.3.53                   33.32        U.59          93.91        97.49       103.34       239. 54
32 on-cub Cm3wm4ws
U                                             113.211       130.313        0."         117.171      (49.443       (78.73)      1".611         13.03         6.00                      0.00          -.
336
3D tr_aU_ bakrl
311 saw  um   1111111
5    mm  44w. jai                             (3p.27        439.139        0.00       (17.171       (41.441       (731 33      46.611       (63.00          0.00                      0.00         3.0
11011000 TM                                          1~~~~~~.02                                                                       0.00                      0.00        0L"
U    1         lattIE   in)                   119.21)       130.191        0.07       117.171       149.441      373.731       244.43       (113.003        6.00                      0.00         0.00
bu  Not                 m22            27 UW                     244           302          33I          3S6           391          U41           4u 466                   04
ILI3        30.4           5.9          M.          126.4!        234.91        95.712       16.52         16.0         00.02        03.02        40.31   '      .u
barn'                '                     -34.3          0.11       -16.61       -44.3         -4.5         -12           -32.12 1.L                              0S."          0.41
3  b            bd u is                                      20.1         2.10U 17                     .                         5.2                       33.62         0.32         .5           6.73
so1 4wlm  34        =     m~Ia                                             41            L            31            2           34.52        113.91        42.02         4.11         LK0          4.LaL
la   WOOD  b                                                  $bb   .U1   12.1           1.32         L.3          4.72          4.52         5.11         0.2 
26kb  at Eat..   ~~~~~             -36.32%      573.00       59.00        M4.3         131.0       1,742.12     2,304.47     2,464.2       2,515.30     2, -34.2     2,9.3        2710          . W
'I                                        -533          0.K         -2.611       -1.62         -4.52        -2.9!         -2.52         6.IA0200
Is NM         i   FU    9  US to i he 01  34t to3  totals say he of l...t fro 134 m l of11.oves



I    ~  
ANNEX 8
INDONESIA                                                       Page 5 of 15
SUWIIFSI-IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
21 lIK C.t                                                                         BPAM Nsbire
n                                                                                   IKE   StitIINENI
29                                                                                                                                                           IIIILII  111
29                                                11/8          pi"            "013           1197          97193         93/94         94/95         95/96          itiII         I91           "I"n 99      99/010        00M
294 sk iue Area PI1atim                           11,32         1,300         20,7W         2e,91          21,k          22,460        23,210        24,34          7,"           2le0          25410 21,7517                30,  s 
m2   f Iatim s                                        m             2nd           .n             tn            3511   ?  '                                751         ' iU            IIIn          iet           III '07
294
291 *er Cn t   t             i                     Im l         9.Pi          40.3          1.611          3.947         3.427         1.790         7.155          7.217         1.446         2.l2 2        2.10         31.130
296 Cmg.p _u 43IU          _C tti.i               19.330       1VAN         1I1.?         19.90         2e2.01        21.560         22.400        27.940        2.360          23.150       274.139        14.40         24.619
2" 9m6   bid 431i4  all                         6.191         0.213         0.22          6.*242        0.571          0.39          6.431         6.5.93        0.340          6.91          6.1 39        0.325         0.697
51 I bMuCitud-3   later                               442           441           402           3t             33?           291           23?           20?            l1o           262           19      2     lt            20
3W6  latw hsgimg          (illism 01               6.345         0.331         0.30          6.391         0.364         0.5n           6.475         0.74?         0.640 e0.71                 0.949          1.032         1.171
3i   b 8ap lunif lMM)                                344           135           456           45          "U7             431           U             III           wUe                          90            934          9*21
54
301 luAif f_r     n  4illi3  fiI                  41.9          19.U52       100.40         !,.t         154.011      2735.e0         325.25        425.06       533.14         411.91        490.02         1i2.20        325.1
51 Lamti. FM                                                                                                2.34         14.20          31.14         50.33         44.21         76.3.          13.04         4.74          is. 12
51 It    ONmr   iOW  SW  htS                                                   10.1111       1 .4          13.3.         23.55          MU.           42.31         U.31          61.69           9.           71.2          5.3.59
in  MAL pMIai.  ~W IE&                              1.49         19.3? n   I     3           9952."       13. H 3       22.33         324.41         432.90        571.i.3       421.41        492.94         742.22          6.40
311 f    inml                                      23.46        27.73          43.93        53.24          11.43         9..3          373.10        13.0.3        l4.9 e0.49t                  220.I0        252.35        290.94
Si2 Prr                                             4.4           3.14         10.31                       21.43         30.42          39.62         49.63         54.59         44.12          74.49        U6.03          91.43
333 teiga3s                                         2.95          2.41          3."4          4.31          4.20          7.94          10.           11.43         13.19         35.23         1I.51          20.72
334 lamlsue ,btneqals                               4.71          3.33          6.3.          9.67         33."           19.3          74.51         21.91         30.10         31.931         33.87         31. 35        3.00
333 lrtm,.atgw                                      4.31          4.21          2.            4.25          9.02          9.54          130.33        10.74         11.9           12.01         12.79         I3.-'         14.79
310 WidustralmotiveraI                              4.67          5.91          3.73          3.16         12.67          14.25         15.15         11.34         19.40         21.33          :3.10    J     5 "           1. 40
31 I                                                                                          2.4           4.19          5.14           4.64           .40          1.431         3.03           b 71          9.56          30
n  ----------------------------                -- - - -- --- -- ---- -- -- ---- -- --- -- - -- --- -- --- --- --- -- ---  --- -- - -- --- -- - -- -- - - -- - -- -- - -- --- - - - - . -   - -. --         . . - - - -- --
no a1   w       h1  131S1                          49.32         5.4.61        12.3.         19.;I         WM            3.1           221.13       274.4?         305.41         164.03          44          443 56        443 .3
3n
m     i    KM    FECiO                             3.36          2.4S          H3.07         1.47                        P !167        91.32         153.21        2335.5        733.31         30.3oo        33 33         337.11
m ihwagata                                         7.1.4         6l.9          11.03         9  -                                     205.11         244.00        21 6.30        3.42          303.13        324.01        343..51
3In  Wl111111111 1 U                             1 456.11      143.53'      *-4i                        1410_31       413.441       3101.601        183.13)        -4.54         -4.37         -5.10          -5.4          -5.0
hratiml teeul
Eki kIv a        t I                           3.66          3.60          3.19          3.39           3.40          3.32          4.04          4.29           4.534         4.3           5.10          5.41          5.10
329  tl it          w   2.t ) t33 i                55..7/             14        7 .11       07.931       4102.711      (13.4731      (103.713        163..1          6.06          6.4           6. of9.00                 146.401
In  haw.  Tom                                                                                                                                                        0.40          0.40          0.40          0.40
31 NE T    m   lafter tell                        455.11        441.3.3      U42.600       13S.191       4302.713      1107.2)       463.1175.2      411.51          6.40          6.e0          *.0          0.ee         4.40
m mum r n:m
"S     .      f            id lop)                  2050          253           3l3           321            540           494           412            443           411           493           3.3.          536           52
_tiig  3116                                    n72.91         61.01        34l           79.32         I".0?          e0.n1         70.n?         63.41         53.51 n4.3Z n.?                           5.621         5e.1
337 Spratieg latie                                331.32        1354.12       I79.62        141.41         113.51        349.3?       133.21         119.2         3o.1           1408.31       1034.11      300.11        3.n
321 *NI him  -  Sinw11s11                                       -56.91        -75.21        -5.0          -3             -41.61        -32.01        -12.31          0.01          0.01          0.01          0.01          0.01
339 hal hirsees  ha twills                                        0.22         15.62                        31.0?
S6 Imreo  la lMW ting fi .                                       31.52          5.62         It.71         39.21          47.US         43.51         33.41         33.9?          9.n9         10.31         10.11          5.n?
361  mrm  ie     n i. l a id0                                     3.S2          4.9t          4.31          4.2?          43.4?         3.3?1         23.31           .91          6.9?          6.9?          3.11          3.2
M4  6up  kwt's   lte                           1,w1.          3,33.34       ,4'          1,310.34      1,345.33      2,10.29       3,393.43      4,3..24        4,370.5.4     4,936.39      4,935.3.     4,936.13       4,311.95
3atest 1 d   tue      h bhalu  keets              -5.61?        -3.n          -4.n           .5           -5.3?         -3.91         -2.62          -1.9?         -0.11         -4.3?         0.13          -it          4.1?
344  b3i1t 



INDONESIAANE 
SULAWESI-IFIAN' JAYA URBAN DEFW.LOPMET.PROJECT                                                Page 6 of 1S
jvf rmfC                                                                                             BPAM    Se-r-ui
M                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IllC8NE SlUEIAENIN
n1  brtfcirr    a re plallz                       IS,Z          II,&5          13,150        14.04           l,no0        14,4 o1       14,7U          l4,vn         15,10         15,1 ne       ISU
M     plat 40s.,ryn                                           2       SI 2sn 24                    21           581           75       51                  III   m                      is,           MI 'e
M  ltezlr  omrt lemIs I M)                         O.U7          0.411          O.IS1         O.us          0.101          1.12S          l.lS7         1.2f          1.75          1.319          I.J5S
n  C      It["  (IOMmiulbCm tial}                 21.7*        23.1101        23. IN        25.210        2S.2*0         21.190        24.50          26.01         21.120        71.1S1        71.2
M    blur sold OUIIIz 1lSI                          0.17         0.12s          0.137         0.207         0.7sl          0.357         O.3S            .m           e.n11         *.434         1.46
31  1 811r_C Id1-fOr later                             ml            3tl           17-           m              211           2s             Nl            m              m            "1             X
M  llttr frdiiz  lNilliN  la1                     1.2911         0.203        e.171          0.2nl         *.35           1.44          1.451          1.43          0.514         0.542         1.571
36  fivrat  larlft I  apl)  441 21                                                                            55            58n            I&Is  s  7U9                as n2 *l               
M  lTwill Ilmo            11111H11p1               1I.N          38.71         MA.*          107.72        15.1.U        2 7.31         2?7.17        2.H9          3".1          15 .U         1  .n
30  Commotio  Fmn                                                               0.S!            .41         11.41         n9.s           35.416        51.11         29.1           11.05          6.16
7S  tms  Itrmoc  for Md kbUs                                     11.62         16.16          71.44          0.9l         31I.U         }3.14          7'tJI         lJ.Or          J5.7          n1.u
Mt "tI tAtW     TIII  a*IIUS                        it."         27.11         It.02          27.25        111.55        7lS.1S         M.11          10].47         m1.1u     -  31.74          lU1.17
III Fw r l                                         I4.u          21.73         31.U           57.52         n1.52        lOl.13         Ill."         In.19         u^4.n          141.U          Mn.
3IJ UEkoicls                                                                                   3.67          4.11          6.n7           6.n"          LS            0.n5           1.11         11.0
Slt Ouirlom   llurirals                             IJ3           1.1           t.05           S. it        1.4.1         1S.0?          17.11         H.lt          19.11          tO.41         21.70
MI frasprtatl                                                     4.25          -0S           9.56         10.11         16.4           11.1t         12. 7         12.1           MS& 5         14. l
S   n  ilnsratl"/h"era                              LS.           su4          I2.le          15.24         14.25          ISMS          Ut.49         11.1          11.01          l.I           11.40
$1? "N                                                            1.16          2.32           3.22          3.11           4.83          5.t0           LS           5.91           5.48          5.3
M1I1                                                                                        - ----- -  ---- ---------- -- ------------ ----- ------ -- -- ---- -- - ---- ------ -   -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -,.
no TEAL PENTl flKmsE                               11.4          14.52         64.14          12.15        in.23         15s.9          IH.12         104.71        MC.7 ?1 01 11                771.7?       
In  IK   M IIE        Kf     I ATI^Ii              IS.0          (7.40)       IIS.!II         10.701        11.1?         51.25         Ill-.0        111.14        17 A.          tl MAY        111.
m    BWK &ln ft                                     I.X           I.11          6.55          24.81         51.R          Sll.SI        III.U         111.14        126.n          111.11        141.9O
1N4 ftr-cas Esle
Mn wII'M l       1 to                              13.63         I9.N)        121.671       i75. 591       1s5.271       137.041          *.00          *.0           1.00          0.00           9.0
A   tb   IKM  1ull
Itl ItEI IlKM   Ibl rr tall                        17.U3         11.nl        121.671        125.5) 1      15.271        (17.961         .00            0.0      0           0.      0 114.411
131 1z@en  In                                       2.41
331 IIET Illl  1511w  tails                        II.n          l9.tS1       121.U7!       ItS.59l       115.271        11?.11 1        I.80           6.00          *.0           0.b          1.00)
M  A"A .Ers Wr IU Sol  Itoo                         in            271            Mtg           1e            435            43            U             475           4t             1t            in
316  Mis  btir                                     ss.n         12n.n          H0 .n         Iee.n           WI.3         nnX            U.n1          H.n           *1.4?.         0-In          *1.11
So opratin  as119                                  66.81        114.lX         144.1         127.71        12S.01        111.11         1Xl.0         1  .9         1410-01        10. l         1010.6
In  bt 1zM  a Is  M                                  .21        -14.11        -44.21         -2J.71        -25.01,       -11.01.         1.1            1.01          La           0.11          *.11
339k1    btcron  to Tariff h                                                   S0-1
10  IK  ~tn   b0 OW9110       1ns                  IL           -n2.11         oc.o1         eo1.n          snn2          *s.n1          33."           o.n St         ta            nn5          nn
341 bsrtne Is Vat r Sol                             S.11          5.61          5.01         56.41          36.11         26.n            7.61          I'M1          6.0 t          .51          s.
32 brs"  kul' S   te lw42.11                                    43.43        17t.06       fil  .2       1 401.44      2 X71.74      2 t15.25    1,01.51         1,613.70   3.lt  .  31,71."
3444 Ut  of btwo a  OnnlS  kstls                   32.11        -2n.n         -12.61         -S.U           n2.n          -I.61          o.n           Ce            e.n1           o.n       '   4o.n
M     R        wt  r dsq. thb rin4  W  digit isU the iUs sa  be  ifft t  r              te     ofn the rt l am_s.



INDONESIA                                                            ANNEX 8
SULAWESI-IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMFNT PROJEC-                                                  Page 7 of 15
31 nu C.l                                             BPAM Wamena
20                                                   (IEEE SIgrinN
296                                                                                                                   MILLIE IWI
2 --------------                                                                                                    -------- ---
m                                              "1M1         91192        9213          3114        "4"          9196         949          "11"         939          9M           am
m29--------------------- _ ___ 
294 11icse Am  P lutU                          1,266        7,520        7,340         ,1W         6,50         6,916        I,29m        9,96        I01ll$         6,5         l1
29 tpo.ti   bre-a                                 4n           421          4n           53           4            711          nR           15           la           7            m
294
297 ltW  CnKclMU     I MO0                     .J4          0.1          0.400        6.529        0.457         .I2         6.63         0.6"         0.99         I.-           1.01
M99SW..       M (u3IUMuhI.ui=l                2.16w        23.696       2.31         25.366       21.170       2405         24.010       24.311       24.13        21.33        25.410
29  1dm  k          l t1131. 131               0.13         0            0.121        0.141        0.1"         0.231        0.242        0.242        0.31         *.tJ           .M
30
33 1   accmtd-1 b       lr                        4012 m                    33           m            2n           20           m            20           20       1          2       J 3
2 latwr 1eaeti   6f111  131                     .In         0.175        0.1          0.n          0.2S         0.29         0.301        L.326        0.           6.1          6.419
36   rawg  tIll 1931                              s          33            U4          514          544          511          410          412          m            136          14
3.4
Ul TarIlff       11    11illi1 1p)            30.05        34.41        41.32        62.47       196.31       133.54       12.14         174.31      205.01          .30       251.21
39t C      ctbi. Fm                                                       002          4.43        13.6         23.91        29.56        29.14        25.1         14.0          S."
Ml Itm   Ulluuue  fer la  hs                                U1.00        15.33        14.33        21.21        20.03        n9.4u        11.U3        26.          22.n         25.
39                                      -----   ------ - - - - - - - - -
2W 161k EITIKVIEI                              36.6         25.4H        44.01        10.42         6.4        131.63       112.24       I1.24        2.41            .1        21.11
3it
311 hrsuuml                                     9.92        34.94        24.32        34.42        u.n          44.31        11.94        00.5         94.33       1 44.5       114.44
312 FM"s
333 Chlncals                                                                           4.30         5.13         4.20         4.1          1."          96           0.40        1n.6
314 Ila.t.me MaterIals                          1.3          1.93         2.05         5.52         4.94         1.49         3.04         1.4          9.64         9.6         10.36
315 truswrtatui                                              2.62         S."          4.35         4.13         1.13         1.54          .031        6.49         9." 0.61
314 Uslaistratnlu ual                          2.22         4.H         10.51        11.26        32.0"       13.4          14.31        15.43         4.42         6.3         1.0 
311 UT                                                       0.9          1.1          2.4          3."          3.39         3.4          3.9          6.33         4.61         4.29      w
311
336__                                                                                                                                                                          ___
339                                    ------------------------------                                        -     ------- -----------------                                         -
W W          U 11I   E EJ                      1.9          25.4         44.19        4.12         00.01        01.31       112.44       124.36       141.91        46.6        143.4
M2  11    11              InE   1u."                         0.21         1.22         3."         11.55        34.17        59.6         43.96         1.4         11.71       14.6
M   IrKtlut                                     1.19         I            1."         3.1          41.93         5.52         9.32        4 3.86       41.9         131.14      14.6
324 11ni-a* bE_ltures
325 5ill  111M                                 14.30        (1.4        110.331      121.19)      129.1        (1.41         00           0.00         0.00         0.00         0.0
32  bwatinl ltanst
El 111W   (kme1 tla                        14.30        11.01       130.331     (21.1)        (29.36)     (19.461        0.0          0.0          6.00         0.0          6.010
W  1.30  IU                                     .1                                                                           6.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
3i3 1          (after a)                       33.13        (1.4)       110.31       (21.n1)      (29.33)      1.441         3.00         0.0          6.0          6.00         6.U0
334
-_- 6WAspars Pr aU odd 4)o                  135          235          354          414          410          43           445          414           9           40    U2
33 gSeab*m          U44.51                                  99.21        97.31        9.51         61.22        13.6          5.n        "A1            1.11       41.51        66.62
3w 1atlbq 31                                   52.41       364.1        122.41       139.51       129.6        114.21       300.01      300.6        100.         I.n2        30.0
l M  'mm  as h m                               41.4        -4.42        -22.42       -3.51        -29.61      -14.2n         L.0          0.           0.           6.0         0.
ha1len Iauuu   I. will.                                   100          35.02
Srns M In                                             -14.4         19.3         S.          n.n           39.n1       2.31          9.2         1.3           5.21         1.
361  ^rel                *4.U                                4.4         34."         27.21       2.n           16.51        4.1          6.41         L.4 .a       L.L
1w ag  b_ts Bob kW                            34.51        37.3        27.11        154."     3,3.3        1,2.34       1,219.,n     1,3.3        3,29.61 1,3.3 I9n.92     1,344.0
!  it O      . u h le   "b 3.2n                          4.41        -3.62        -3.11       -v           -l.6          6.           01           0.0         0.           0.6
sjw to {qwomu            lb  l    digIt I lb titalsl as be dlttersnt fr  lb  M  ofb t slvMGs.



INDONESIA                                                ANNEX 8
SULAWESI-IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                          Pg      f1
32 3331 El                                              ~~~~~~BPAM Mlanokwari
-o                                                                         36K6  STAIEIKU
246itmM
3  5 -- ---   - -- --                   ----- -- -- - -- - -- -    --    -- -- ---- --*- - -- - -- - -- - -- - ----- - -- -- - -- --    -     -- ------ -- -
29                                          "I"3         919I        vim9          91193        93194        "I"9        95IYI        9119        913         399          936         4666
19   - -- - - -- - -- - - -- -     -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- ---- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - ----- - - -- - -
196 kr.Ic. ksa Pmp.Iatlm~36,16               31,613      J2,50          39,536      46536        43,536      42,519       4313         416          53         4,6         ur            93
M295 Pq.3a331moried211                                      m            3I            25          3            3I          M3          15           la1         22           33          19          1
29
M9 hipf CimdlmM  I Ml3                       3.314       5.111       1.341          8.446       2.615        2.1609      3.213        3.2111      4.116,      C.M1          Up1        4.11141     4.114
246  luuaie  lI0UuIicamuetleal             2n.w      13 21IL 3.5                   MM64        22.43        2.1311       MM91        23.1        23.36       24.311        4.313      21.011       3.34
29%km Sam h     nid (3  ml.U                6.33         6.33        LI35           6.311       L.559       0.129        Cm69         3.695       1.116       5.210        1.33        5.36         1.311
36
3M  1 IMaw Mgmlu-#  himr                       49                       31m           331in9 231                            3           26626                    2663                                 2
32 later hfttimlmi. 6113.a)                 0.n2         0.311       0.5           6.511        G.M3        0.941        3.33         33191       1.463       3.16         1.115       i.m         m.3111
33 kwep twill 1PPM3                           25           236         219            34          4111        432.         456         03          115          16           23          12           a
364
35 twlarl  aa,iii6                           23           6           61           846.11      22.99       384.59       413.21       M."4        131.61      6on."9           ad.1  8,4.46"    1,13.13
386 Cu.ggtm  Fen                             6.46        .0.          0.4604   6.                 46.       14.04        45.46       11.11        94.43       96.43        19.16       49.66       am4
31 Lous Ilkumui Ow hi hIts                   0.46        11.13       14.13         22.32        21.31       31.41        43.33        MIS1        16.461      31.1        3.14        3I0."       311.31
M                                                                 -     -   --  -----.-----------.-----------.----------------    -    ------
389 MAL WENIIII 66633                       62.33        "0.15       63.45        321.41       24.19       M9.91        431.54      12.1         M6."9        MN.         912.3     3,63.56     3,04.
M1
311 Fesmmul                                 82.31        II.4        Z2.I          46.14        13.41      111.46       16.43        EU          3.4 3.63    361.     .13  3o"        25.113      3.31
3o? Fsmr                                     6.9         6.46         6.4           6.46        59.l        11.3         95.24      323."        106.30     13.16         316.4       202.1       213.4
113 ClskaIs                                  6.46        0.46         6.0           S.15        .6.1         6.30        34.6        IS.94       10.66        30.39       23.66        to.4"        LO
386 hsatemmu   aterials                      0.4          3.10        3.46          33.19        LI  36.1   2.10         33.15       361.1        19.63       41.33        63.65       41.46       49.21
385 Irsamstalsu                              2.49        32.66       13."6          I6.5        3.31        31.29        31.21      136.3         31.46       30.1111      23.10       23.10       24.35
336 Afs.stratimeI6murat                     SE."          9.13       10.13         32.31        13311       5.14        31.35       26.25        2311.       24.11        30.33       N.3         3.6-1
3IF Fro                                      0.46         2.31        2.6           4.52         5.I3        61.3          .03        9.16         9.66       196.4        II.3        82.1        1.2
310   ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ 10.4                      .0.4         6.46          6.46        6.46         .0.          6.46        6.46        .0.4         0.4         0.81        6.46         0.46 
389                                                                            --------------------------- ---.------------------  ---------------------------
333606UK   3I3IMW  EM IN                    55.6         43.15       56.31           .41       381.19      213.S        332.66       433.51      451.6  56.91 W.          313.311     03.31       1103.11
321
M  M      6111111 K1lIM                     3.31         23.10       32.55         3.46         13.463      34.36        63.39       315.11      349.416      13.91,      3M.39       63.361      06.19
33 3. lKiitn                                35.816        1.3        3S."          13.59       349.155     230.10       M6."        315.32       349.46      113.91      311.39       430.111
30 fsin1 I  op wNt                           .0.          0.46        6.46          6.46        .0.4         6.46         6.1         6.          6.46         0.4         .0.4        .0.46
325 P131111111 11III4.18                                  In         3300         13.31       1153n.l  t.n53  im6.913  Im136 l        6.46        0.46         6.46        .0.604   0.               46L
Mi bwat3mIIs4grgs                             .0.4       0.46         6.46          0.46        0.4          6.46         0.4         L.4         6.46         0.46        L.O         0.46        0.4
M1 Voter kam  4nto                           5.A         1.46         1.4           1.46        6.46         61.46        0.6         1.46       11.46         1.46        1.4         1.46        Lo
39EID  1I6I55 lingo  tut                    39.35         2.12       21.A6        429.598     334.353     1115.91,1    1119.333       0.4         1.46         1.46        Lo4         1.46        Lo4
313 hars n.                                  4.09        21.111       4.4604   0.                 46  6.      461.        6.46        6.46.   0.36I.1                      6.3         6.39        6.46
33361 KIM        aItw teal                  11.21        30.54       31.31        11.599      1134.3311    1315.9111   (119.31        5.10        5.10         1.10        5.10        5.10        1.10
33 bs.Euemis per 63 M                  HeI  3      331          145           M5          32           3Su         319         3Su           M6          W           423         413         443
330 MbrIa  hI5.3                                         15.411       111.61        11.91      146.91         0.51       19.91        W0.1        11.0        51.0         U1.1        39.131      U.N
31  !perIa  hueti                          6.31        69.9"        11.31        33.31       315.01       13.11      144.51       14.6        846.66      146.66       84.66       34.66       33.
33WI6 im  m hu.M                           59.A        19.66        2.1  M        23.41      -12.01       -a           4.1           CR          01            nO                      .           .
339et luceasas I larills                             -3046.6         6.A          3.61         620.01 I                 0.66 #                  6.63         6.A         6.66        #.66        0.a
36larraa m M twatlah m-33.1                                        2".A           53.5        3.31        461.11       39.53       I4.91        16.61        ?A0         9.51        6.43       21.93
348 lutom   ..w isvoer o                                  L.6        30.31          360.1       14.31       30.51        23.33       II1.11       I.E          0.A         0.01        &.0         0.
342 berap &ml's hi. am                     33.04       315.20       309.1       3,693.14    3,53.20     4,99.06      0,42.46     0,614.46    1,39.4       16511       1,136       1,61.62    1,M.64.
363 his of hlm,. a   walmi Mtes               I.91        L.6         4.11          -2.41       -4.31       ..   -3.11 -3.31          0.6      1        0.6   .6           6.66       0.a          6.66
3.4
345 10Mh   so to rumdiag, lbm last digit is me, totals "aW be ii fial free Ite wea of the cisle..
340 W0JM-11



INtlOIIES IA
ANNEX8
SULAWESI-IRIAN JAVA '1RBAN DFVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                     Page 9 Of 15
113                                                                                    uoasiise
I1                                                                                       P*  qai                                  f         I                                                                         Ie 6.21
III                               1.4101~~~~~~~~~~Wto   Wie  AWItal    6.4gtid                                           IlSII  11  19  111S       I11S         til1119                               M"m
IN.-.--.----.---.---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- --------------------------------------------.--------------
316 Pgsigg~sgServed                           'k?          JL          L1       " 11    1il, 2 7L                  T'Ii11       h.91S          L.~1       a.~:         1,111         .131.1     I11.11   211.311         1131.8
it  ater C.ueetlee    61                        11.L1      11.13        11.11      11.34      11.112     22.31        213.11     HAS~         11.1         I1.1         21.43         H."         Mit         2131       tort:
j t Chsawleire    =     013(stIs.c             1111:1    u1:I           111:11   130jj       8si:         1.4        14.1  14.4     1.      11111.4      lIL1    I        "1        ,,itii.      n . 
IU iIhccuutee-fer later                        31.3       3if6         46 "My.41                                     31.411    33.151        33 411        39.113       10.8I   ll               2.41        3461 1141.113 i. 
setr Pluelem- ?heusg   4 3                         346 1       131                   1141A    I416i.3        IsiS  II   11161        16221.1       11111.1      111114.1     1II13.1    III I.6    1111491 I       1I13.1
Afl  f  Imor  Pr6c s/1g113                        I           i                                 3:  I      466          416        41            Su6          M1           11i61                    I ISi11                   1
lsgf   evomo.,                           1, .1 1,6lt.14                       le. d 11. 14  3,1621   5.2          4,361      I,81         6.0211        6.165        0.321        1.2161       1.111      1.031         1.173
j1i  Cm j=s I- _________________                                                                  1fl                     134        134          211           21           214          HI s                     6inI
3154ttl0asl   tlvs1144    .111                                         1,111616  3,211.11       ).3.34     8.111         4.1.      1.111         i.131        1.584        INS          3.1in       I."?        1.3216.5
III PIrseqisl                                    183.66    311.33        431.3    sit."            Ill        1.1          oil        61'          Del          Ill          N I          656          913       '.031        I,31
all  ewere                                       H11.I    111.01         431.81    63.8            1o3        $1)          Ill        63M1                       3 ISII1Ill                 23         Ill         9130         See
216 CPI,~caI                                 11,1f       41.S       1366.5      366.1         313        32           431        1314i                       i            I III623                            I's           652
ifew-gat    -  uee  r                                                            s         Is,I                    of6      412            110         508           Il           1.6         in5         635          176 
223                          ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
224  cta     frtll       wmr,at ~ii             ,1 1.1     .111.3 1 ,6.11131                    2.218      2.438         2,661     2.812         1.232        1.*:2        3.606        3.646       4:~           AC4.811
I:86        V*ufa2a*U                                   I1 ,111                   U ~        1          1         1.iI       1.611        IMS~         2.711         2.4*1        2.671       2.I8?       I. 1           .1
;I  nams 1,6611                             11~~~~~11.34                          HeII     1,230           Il         116        1, 648       1.416        1116         I 2.23      i,i2         1.412        7.15
2!g 3utat    ;,ts I1:n                                     .s          11:1    '11:-"         i6]        Ill          3l         its          112        I'll;         :.i'         I.5           '36936Sl
iN  3"rst - 3pe                           41.0111              I~~~~~6                                                                                                                                     .6460 
IN) lt .:mm   .auap :.fers TIN                   36.1       233.11       13.1        I.31         212        3414         063        451        1.11            fit          $111       1,761       1.51        1.432         Il13
234  .:1use Is%                                  ID:.         I.911.1    668.It1   1.36             11       331           22s        Ill          141          2')          114           MI          Si4        411          M1
let :'c:qe  u3ss                            114.3       13.11        314.31      31.11        163        633          431        202        i.0133         41            Ill        i,:11       i.:6          1!'         1.171
I,  .5.~~g'3~g   ~8r S'31'  !:1              Ilit       H       16    18         132        2l3       Mi                  ~: 2::s                                                   12                      Ill          Al
4@t.s;                                                      I .'1    1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sii  33.1  wi.'  S4.'                                              it. 82  1.i :2  4>31  43.11       44..9
t :a:.u  ~~~.                    431           43        I3.P          23       414Is     1371          6.23        .!%         '~            .            .1          131          14          64
:i tar                                                         13~~~~~~IA    .1  4 n I 1    .1  21.31 U'    F2           11            0(i          63.51        9.2.        6.11        03.01         Gs
261 jicruag  ia0ga'atse  igyguwel     :4.3     1 .6              .          .1         .11     13.02            is       S'sC                      VI6          S.s         76.62        2.A1        11.1           .3
(61~~~cr.aae..a:sr 5414                 -3.43           .3       lii~~~~~~~~~~~~H  :.I3  ISA        6.5        0.91          6.71         221          2.:6          .2         2.1         l66
213 LvKfsgghu in  Ipest:.  4itisa                  lii        316'61                  346        6         !2.06        AI3         74         20.'5           ?.3        7227          22632      21641       24501         777
S1 'a:e if 3starr 26i 3tvl bee As161              36.13        1.111      21.11       11.831     :.13       ILI33         8.71       3.91         6.21         1.53         1.43          1.62        1.11        8211        l1Ilt1



INDONESIA                                                     ANNEX 8
SUJLAWESI-IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT    Page 10 of 15
III                                                                                          oPAin W5ON .to
!                                           -nCONE s"rgri
.   X  ^   ,                 ;,                                                  -  -       :^::::-:::-:-::~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nilas. nvia
1,4
'91                                         X ?/|         | ",111        =         199011                 - -     -  ---e-                       *  c t  I  c
191 ---------------------98 0)t   90WUind                          git  l aistto   IWiIgte@  19 Noqtssk9j.
98 PS98latsp -550.45                           554k    ~ DO             'siui      57Q7 ---------------        993       1914                       1995s,q      1W           s99          1511        2me           7601
559 Puulation  SQooIlr'                                        %4                o      183
159 Pollatiovi sefvoc3  21                         36.53         145.4 3 9.4                    12.1          25.61    52621          li30.80      533.4        136tu        131.12       5452         544.42        '"4 62
V oter  cii-?ectif7s - co3                           .2         5.)8         5.40                    ;?     I ii            520 i      5. 51        6i2A n3                                              65  .1 iI  1 i  ii2
2 }  @1  >  0 i.l  l o  et           1l~~~~~235 |  16.9       Z1?3?7      r          rs          li13         12-1         7t 0         13.7                                   25.5         2.- it   l7    t2.1      3 
2C2 Cs98wacti? bo U1oeiCrss- ,r.               235.      1sO~          W .          22.5           7      1.11          .4         1.1          00          '3            C.-          1.2s.                       .6 
D263           0        3                                                    3               1     4                                  m .          7563         2I I         2951 I        i? 2         30, j.       32!2  ?  2  2  23.  2.  2 3
255 a *'wccwmt45-f,or                               14.591 1..151           14.611      1.1         2 30.001    21.01      25.011    22.49          20.001           D         0 700        19.191       20.001       2'.001       2' 331
WI A"rae f    1ri ' -  gINSiSA   3          13.          5.2          03.       15.3        re 10 5    211..        3611.7    3211.          3563.9       355S.5       3734          306G.6       36054.1     404s.i        ':4I.0
Ut *vuage1~~~~~~If    Ip/Ni             5~~~~46     14           209         330        lie         j            98        40.i                   ~                               5           P            1             1
281 Tariff 1ki                                                                                                ..-----
2amact3..' el Fees                               66          2sS         r 146.4,   31           II         II           91       1.144         '.;210       liSI         1,145        2.t20        2.;16        2.4i2         2  as6
285  1bs~~~~~ lpuins@i               2~~~6.13      1 391       3,68         3.7       12.1          32            so         h             9!          92            06            It          11           64            54
232                                                                                       67~~~~~~~~~~~~~41  S.8 3.0  .1 Il  lie  536  lie  III        260          2.12         253          333          S49           365
25   o. I     aiJbsss239                                      265.18       34.        5"             515i       649          .54       'P            .6           )2          2,711         2.362        2,776        2.905         :-045
255 PISSea5)                         ~~~~~~~~~~62.94  99.52    69.51      550.26         is         574          :1         113           153          231          245          25           )1            31           155
i   Psr                                            43.7        5        .61       60      .00         05         US           536         54             l frI                   M            701 i2                   212
29t  Che Ica                                      i 34.6       5.45 i        1.12    i1e jJ                      56 5i                   2               4           15          34o          3              1          US ;.n
He Naiat4sag     atzer':                           28.34         213.4        .1                                                                                                 5n51         Il9           516         256           293
Z1-   -lFJ--                        !~~~~~~~~~~~21.i10  !2   14I    I2tAl2  IS8."                                 Si         10 XH t        t          @            418                        |31
754 4ds'sists:iou  - jf(t.                   39.24       42.61        11.45       55.31         56         759                      95           704         121                         4512113                                2C4
*224 la  Debts ; $    htbt                          t0.00       0.00         C.00        0.00          II        22            29         3*            39           Si           St           11         j1             Is            .6
;1. 'a's   **                                     201.3C      2.3.21       214.12    300.83          310        525          5IN         112          9Il4e,56                              125           .0           .14.i
.5  .1;1.                                                                   41.        239.29        251        374           494        662           61         1.1             41 9
22! :avta; a   '2.34    211.13                                             252.5      215.5          25          7             56        50606634                               1713        1,60            91411     lOS4          5161
IN  Bear.,tm Is         :s'     *iU                   .6        3.6          6s656                     15                      1         51             10            6            5?           9o          65        105           0.6
277 Oharniq  lace.            1248.52)  8213.54~~~~ ~~1 2                                                              62            4 a         468          310           21611                     313          261
219 Ut OW~~~~~~~~~tl"5.                                               .60           6                        5          6                       26L25                       65245                    233           211
22  letr omparaieg  stem  (wto                   1245.12    1213.64       1256.62)      16.51         151          51                      240                      in                           1          oil           is           35)
236 Other ~~~~ %ke~~a~. 665    jS.02(       5.01 ~~~~    6.3       131.1)         4          36            19550                                52           122           i.o                       *
231 35t 'KcMs ft s  bfor  lot                        1.4,   23  1211.54)611                           1 65)        156                    4            lit          35           259                                     lit23  5     103
232 Eneem Tax                                      O"~'         6.3         .1416.2     2AI                       Is4:)                                              II1
JJlt  Ieu. lime)                               121-514)  1213.14)    1251.52)   328.0411           (481        *5           I"0        III                                                     213                     2             13
2In  *v.fhbe  pr-       0     3 Bell (Sp)             114        266           15 12                 266        242           n6         36Ii                        1            5             6           451         414           413
210      isrs   lass                s. a56                     75.5          6 6.51      57.01      62.41      50.51         $1.2   516.21            U0.1         45.51         0.31         1.1                      52.8          54.83
266                           AVONq go             214.4 a     201.31        563.65      95.21     Il3.91      '.IS~         11:t1    '1:1            96.61        ISM9         53.91         65U          55.1         9.1          93.51
424  i6 a`Tss sIh  pr uuv                         -111.1    -56.?1          -63.61      *4.51       -g.mH0.23                                                      9.33         6.41          3.41         6.41         4.41          5.41
~~2  fure.a.  i Tariffs                         5~~~~~~~~~2.11.                                                          01.51        5.1          44.41         066.1                      6.1.01U                   6.01
2144 lirsm08=,0ms2.2                                                            7 owl                ?:U       II::          A.'s       53.65          4.51        45.31         1.131         3.1         IIA66349
20  lKrom   le vo16.5                                                     2.1         .51A    -76.51      45.21         6.11       55.211       52.          -5.23           .140                      .345                      4.913
245 heron. 53 Mali? rv~~~~~tsag                              -56.11      44.65         2.63        5.61         1.31        -6.21          4.41          4.03       -o.1s         4.9Is1        4.13.91  4.1
ism                                                                                                             -6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.51  4.33
219~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11    .:2                                     t't                                                                                 1
.S1    16-Oct-95



INDONESIA                                                       ANNEX 8
SULAWESI-IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                     Page 11 of 15
.91
III                                                                                              PAR1 AIAPATEN tutu
92                                                                                                IN=I   STATENESI                                                                                          hum        epe
1 94                                                                                   I telui th l                       F  r  S  j  a  c  t  a  d
'9                                         11|        sl19 s|              tilly9    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
n1                                       :gai,gg       gt loge     69150  1tS     tw        1191       II0/         III) 99                 Ils 91                  1911 199                 1919        no
1I  WON  Area PSoustlie. - eH                               165.                            60.46      62.66        64.91 e ue11           11.62        16.42       63.62       53.12       Un.42       8 1
1W  Pplgi   Srd                                   1473       1163    tiii          11.01      9.3 6s71.63            HSSI       12.51       32.51        64.63       66.51       55.63       e9.33 n         i.h        i 
MI Veter Cenetee  - e                                                       I                                          so U14 Is                                        I
m03 1USO4 t       - lIThesib      .  n3                      25.S      hI         21           ht       2:                      kl hS 2}                   h2                   't5 10                    2S.1        2S.I
tE  m hl_ iSdl  - Tu"ui N0                  1143.1    1111.1   1219.1    I331.S    1114.6    1741.1            2611.6    2211.5       2614.9      2112.2      2121.2    3I64.3         3243.6      3413.1       303.1
2INI   eaecmttd-fer Vater                        2til        2is.2     31.65      19.93      26.6        c 26.6e1 26.63         26.t           .is       20.11       2.21        23.23       22. t2.                  toi
216 Vatcr Priolecti   -  s- ei 11               IS 111l.4    IS4l.S. 456.6    1661.1    1311.1    2111.4           2521.4     ?51.1        1 1.5       3111.1      3566.4      3663.1      462.1'    4*3.2          42312
6 tl  Ae"  Tariff - RpNln                          112         16I      163        163        III        33           131        36           446         446         I46         I66          Su          to          o16
nI Toriff hvess                                 127.16     11.311   235.13    244.91          2H         4            6I         1SS       1,3S1        1,226       1,2I5       1,121       1.116        I,9l        2.26
.10 Cowtim  Fees                                  3.61       1.21      Ii        16.63          1         31           64         94           3          145         139         133          121         I2           i2
jlt Other Reveues                                32.11      31.32    S1.91       19.26         45         11         146         181          216         293         369         445         436          4S1         SO
t 1 2 ~~~~~~~~. ................................................................................................ ........................... ii ----------------------------------..................................................... .... 
213 Total tpratlin  Revenues                    161.11    179.97   291.53    314.06           21i        M13          669      1,036       1.561       4,56          ,'ll       2.275       2,311        2.415       2.11
214
115  ersonnel                                    36.12      41.52    S1.13       S1.31         371        t            19        :21         1'i          164         1I          ?.1          211         25l         261
III Poer                                          4.29       6.54      6.11       1.30          I         '3           IS          :           24                       0          3 I3         3I          I1          41
247 Cheical                                      13.13      14.64    44.66        1.47          6         26           32        13            46          Sl          iS          14           I           90          i s
246 laintes e Naterils                            1.13       6.11     22.4s      46.76         66         I6           If          i6          of          1          lot         4?22         tlS         II           IS1
1l    8 Aeinistrat;cn  - General                 31.26      41431    12.46       44.33         42         61           64        :63          '24         III          56         Y ,          20'           ,           ,2
2    od slits                                     I.63       61     n.66          6.03          6         12           20         23           3S          3I          11    11                 9                        is
t22 letal Operating Fpens                        92.13    47.11   136.41    161.37            III        251          3:6        336         461          sis         !I          141          736        1I          649
223
224   cme  Rlss: before kerec.                   74.86      62.22   1i9.1       11.63         4119       21           Ill          S       1656 .099    112         1.162       1.321        1.641       1.611       2.615
221 3wsreitlato                                   6.63       6.H       6.3       12141          1         12          I44        235          219         ItS         311         432          II          SI33        511
226 Lrtiastin of ether  ssuu                      6.6        6.6       63         6W            I          9            I          9            9           6           0           6            6           e           6
22  herIat,l lnco   IWlssl                      174.6       62.22   419.42       ". 69         14        2            413        453         192          79s         11S       1,l14       l,1"        1,147       1,492
221 Owerte linterest                             I6.0        6.        1.6 .      I.13          I          I            6          0           0          211         261         249         236          222         267
III ett 01er11t1tinees  ILen                     74.661  It . 24I   15.2 ,      969            514       266         4A1         463         192          212         114         946         124         921        1461
236 Other 1.8com ftosa   - Not                    3.11       4.14      2.09       4.62         63         34           57         5          461          415         462         IN3         231          214 
234 set  n.Km  (Laso ut  foe Ta.                 17.97      63.4    161.17       91.94        lit        264          41          15         89           632         616       1,4NA34      1,15        4.99        1.511
32X  Incus ian                                    3.63sl     3.63r     0.96      6.n3          42 9" 2B4             166       S11          II9          233         231         391         31                       514 s:7
lt Ret :cCeI  ILcsI                             1111       63.46   46.11       91.9          91        111          315        3041                    449 Itl      :3 Cl1 757                            I.6It
236 1A-;0S 41 CONPAIAUIN:
11 *- --- -----------------
L'o Aif.Epscs  per 131 So0l                       11        in 1@    124                    21        1t             IS                                            191          10         225          233         2M1
j1l "rtil*   Ratio                               $1.4       $5. 41     ACU      5.12t         l u.61  v.u8 35.1               lo.         29.1 3S .t               31.11       2i SX        31.01       323          M  I9  s
246 Gerating Ratio                               1S .s       65.43    46.51       69.41      15.71     64.21         52.93      66.e0       46.3        11.91 5              1.43  41.5      51.23       13.6l        41.9
il Net ;coe  on Ret  oferrlevenves              46.51 3     1.5      14.21       31.21      31.05      31.5         3.41 4     29.5        31.53      2V.3         25. s        32.13       31.11       31.13        31. n
282 lncresses :4 Tariffs                                      3.3     51.11       0. 01       6.0      6.6s          0.01        0.03       313          6.01        0.03       21.33         6.61        1.0s        19.63
83:xireose in oerst;e3 ;     2evees                           1.33    61.33        1.53    -16.33      169.71        61.23      45.3        S1.4.1       6.21        4.1J        31.13        4.51        4.6a        to.6
244 M  rK ue 1e  oter Solo                                    3.23     9.33        3.11    -'3.103      5S.6         41.3       43.4        14.33        6.23        S.Is         S.43        S.1is       *.n         6.n2
215 IncfUSe  1s itter PrcKt;est                                                               9 .41     11.61         5.3!      13.43       44.43        6.21        S.S .t St                 1.1i       4.9I         6.63
'S1 Avers   Ast a 7ete he                          129       1121      1     2119  42y       1335       Ili          3342       SS0         6751        ISI7        5212        6934         I1SC        1552        1I 4
2     t a      1 o  Return en 0Wev    Assets      :4.13       S.53    13.01         .1        4.1111    12.11        12.3        7.31       11.71       I0.!1        9.33        13.31       44.93        6.913       13.41
.1     ;2-oct-:-
25s



mud  grut  ~   1.i~  1.1w  1.~  ~               ~                us g-     u-t-                  us       utU
'    ,,:,               :,         . " s       '          ,         w. .t  u ~                      U: " F  u              t Ut-   sail                                   u5  i)fib"^1A I  I  a
Ni S        9 D1                136 n1 tl                          311 u       ntl   t Ril  U' I      z. *Ss *1' *1- *1E1tUL t                         UU I                                        Ob
mu         ust  me    sr;i    u-SP  mrst   tt " 51t 11    u;                                           n ts s~  33    rsT sri Ue-    s i                                          sjj tj 9 6f Ul
111                          is'11      111,-                                              39 W134fIgs
319I    U9              S        U1S        IU9         SU9    s"    *i    tU                       mt   Inl   16 Ul *                       i Uli  mna U   It,t S11g
|%~~~~~W                 ":A                                                      a-i it9"u1  n   e  sAs            *                                                    JXl-I         1-t 
|1l'1  CX  U   ;f   ttt      ttItt      m'          |t        ttt        etl      lS |~~~~~~~~~~213   1":.t1  n L  g |      *:" ,z!s,L s'
531        III 51               911         331 S31 3t1 S51                              131        161       131 t61             Iii         Ni        611             1319ii @13    UuLge'I         w
W8'           II      t'          ''         i          SCt         Gll         Wt       at          f  l a   I            bI    oznGn   14            oil              fil piull goz 2s! tI
1g         l         its        US          IN1        Is?         ils        ni        tit         Is       III)      (1t3111   (Kitl  ..1    lU,                    :"lsl  "ml S    IN  Kg
no           t1       1K'I ll si             it         Itl          3         "I        61     1              0 I                   'IU       US1      086                                  i "ml2    WI
1'1        I66        No3        NZ'I It      It          1         MI3                  tit tSt   Iit        1191      (to-IlI  1U91          'I t    I  III "'1                 I   b      ^ m1 .lv  it(
l.         "          IN        Utit1                                ttIItt1'9 51  961  U  11       61        61        66W '                                                I9  6i Km '  
Ut    WI          I          o         t          al43                    OK1      699                   III      U1,161   Wool1                                     11311l 1.6hi*i 
191 H1     6Il 111               full        t it        SL tIII                K        "I :i 1 llU  -i tfl101   t 01B                                                         14
Stt  IS;  It;        lIt         Nt         tlZ         KZ           tt      tU          IIZ       ISI       H  lil   1111        SZ'tS     H  tt                     I!J1" "18101        lItUR
I11          ii       In         its         lIt        1It         lit        1L        It?         lot       SiZ      11119 "'ti  K's        uI@   les I                                            an
t   t     ISl        ItS        lLt         lu9         11l        t1        ts1         SE1       6s        HIll    UK I1$                                   l34                         11, t  I
9161t'i     ht5       1t'1       Hillt       'gill      1 6169      Ili        to        Itt tlt L'l 11 1                  1                     t35  1  6   t 9916^3  h''s94e  t'wt II,
so!         5         oil,       tit i       I          11           1 S        m        " I                   o It-s K    It      US  '       l1t   Nl 'A                            ' 111391191 fll
U1          got       at;        Stit                               lo         Go        111         if1       361       "'Al    U99          6113      It' ll;d                            I&1.1 1s it i
t6t;il03    It; 1U       ' SIUS   S1 S11  I61                                   WI   lt i ti t'              t  I Ni.   I11 t11   6 t        6'Sit 6l5 I h';l          t               iti71-  19213  tU
1tit    t   6         1 1         t   *:C If            It   *iSt i0                      t 6                  11        6U3       616t 9      61       141                              Wdt      . Jg10 Il*
It K         l t      it  t     toS          St         S Ct                   of St tSt tEt         I I       t l't    W1 U       14         K' l tt t ittS               xw3/ &tl/J w.llt_X  ILU
te- 11      3 itt     Sllt       Ill'?       I'l          ' I V1    61S1        111 l939             636 I11              6   l    6' 11S 63    1 U'?    3111L                  J    ai S    ld  ;boj -t  t
oil         Sit       IN         S3 U n                 11*        oil        19        si n        61       Ult        lot ss     s         361 U'     W-                             S        .410a I'l
n'"II       loLl      5131       1111       U11t        9L,1        12        (319      13l91       116        461       59tl    I'll'       U319      63311           t0 1  9 5 - "l151, I1
613i       It 1a       359       Wit'       "I'l         *3,1       313,       169,0    W   11       16?'S     6121      101'l     331l        1'l     13'1                   tigoi l- 55*3*IIi  I ll
3313        131*      311       1961        11?         161?        3611       69    1S611          1l!il  g   Uz  guy            193        61351  dl6il        "      I P61gQ4j   U6!1PJds "1)33
ON
16169t      19199t    91619     311         3111M       ILISlE      63111t     Vff1t   I'ttil        UIEV      'i69!l    311ll   01911        6111    991(1i                 cm 91133    - pi" 1.10 Ca
l61         661       3,11       161t       611t        '1(         6'11       11        IIIt         iI       O'ld      I'll      511        691t      I'll                                          la3U1l3U I   6
It'll       3641     96         916        366l        I116        961        1i       361         to'3      13       it's      693i       56        9469                   N   - 365131663 Amiss la
311   310       311,6      19*3       3113t       3113o       511o        113      It'"        WIi;      5*11t    515s    a'"           II's      110s                          paiq u132194sit6
low9       OR13       $6l6      1699        164        1366        9613        Hit1    l6611                  93 16611633'ot   9113          555 0USP                                55     (3u@      61
_ ___ _~~~~~~~-                  ----- --- ----- --- --- ------- ---- --------------------------------- ----- --- -- ----- -- ---- - - 0  II"161                                              st;
0 1 3 * t I A a 
----                                                                                                                          ------*----169~~~~~~~~~---------
"On  wiil           66                                                                                       171      3                        1U
--6661                                                                                        SKI         SKI      jUl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IVNI No                9.9
q3;dq  E U I ' S      1      3       5       3       1      1       1       1       5   39025!                                                                           ,69
Si  lo  Zt.  Ova                     .L)Afrosi         i3adO LAaLQ   1V1   VAU 1                  viIXi-IS3M         IS
8 XaNN                                                     VISHNIoNI



INDONESIA
ANNFX 8
SUILAWESI-IRIAN JAYA tlRBAN DEVELOPMENT PRO.JECT                                                        Page  30f 15
AC      TAEEit                                                                                                                polls
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pg 130 15r*                                                                                                                                 |l 1
I X X                     X  9 E     |   @1      t 9 |  9   '   N  t    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- -- --  -- -- - --- ---- -------------------- --------------------------------- ----,------------_-
018                                         luiteg    Amh,tad       usiltodt   Suopigi         1191      1912         1"9        9l4          19"          tIl          ill?         tl9                    3m          Mte!
Fimies -  1                               125.72    1363         134.34      MAT6.f51      14. 1  St           151.4      03.1        1iu.*        III                       19's        xi  s            o'  a1
Watle. $W1"    9.t1t    10.41   .111i  issi  's.12 ' A, 153                                                                           i';i '                 '                     Ii.'   6lt AMIS "L Si            20.6k
I Vot    tmItcim  - M                            . 2I?    2.4          2.06       2 '4       3 93      5.61         1.92      11.13        12.46        13.32        141 1   1    5.         11.16       I.I           11.51
i,        mIl1' 3(                                                      2.lttitsw  l.'I       2          6           20.0       21.l   N .l               1t1      t 15    t        1.S h.l
N l z                                          4.'        *35.4        517.1      601.4    '0235    ttSt.S         111t.5   S1t6.9         3129.9       IHS.         H    4       61..'  di It1          .411          aA'J
ni  I MCooti-taM       Oster t9t 9.356    s4.66n                        43.1114  CII    46.6211          6.6 in      32.56      2M.15       2M.6          24.11 n.611              2n.s11      21.911       .1611 n       .92m
Ono  Prdtto  - 1bk,sa.g P,                    113.5      963.3        W1.!    '6ll.5    11,6.4    2266.2          2934.2    0066.         4111.4       4453.2       4151.1      492l.5      5231.6      sill.?       6164.1
6u133 &:,r  "^;@t   iF rz"  246       2IC           353 3H3              363        456          456        456          525        US2        MSt             M           m s  s t  5
Hil tariffh    ms h13.2?    11n                                        f * 1NA   22j44         Ill        is?          9i      1.154        1.643        1.111        I.Wl n  1 L               .414      2.611        3.464
m   KW   ,.uw                                    16.1.      23.03       22.16      16.46          1 ifM                                                      M           3s           11U1       4l          462          623
Is  1T681 bwitiq3 h35      i5                   136.11    131 .1       266.62    26.3           45         113        '.249     1.644        2.311        2.413        2I.9         3.116       3.161      3.31         4.356
In  Pusn                                         311        31.1   s 5s14          62.45         It         M     16    IS        '163          12           144          5           11           M         2119         I
Few P5~                                     '1.12      22.15        23.11      56.6           9                     4.         61           61                                                                        l :5  ,'t
. Ck i i                                           C.6      2-Si        23.25      62.6          11                      s34 21 2!                                                    M           213S  9 S    S,
ftinomm  ftwill  1.11  14. K  l!_19      35.14        4 I        pi          M          119          214                       291~~ft                              1I 
3X bul  tratin   {E- Umr                    1'.63      U.tl2        1.1        64.9          I 23      21            2 1       3s           44          If,                       *,  1       Not
1 Ts3 i 114 wbistiq (Imesa6i                             92.21       1'.1I      233.322        l   III  J61s3                   S"    669     4           13s          He4          it6       I'M 16            1.12    .51
Ji 4    1 up egin     m   hfe  rgt.             461        45.22         1.66       1.56        M65       491            4      13           11,35        1.11t        1.51         23.m        2.191      2.31         .il
Nt    must'.                                   un        list          3.11 95   U.SI  t2.?  i  I        146          2         349 t  t                               3 Jtl  UlI                          El           311
; u iR |IJ  IA 1"    .6 51 I"-ll}    1                  1            I    I |    li                                                6    61    m  ,.5
_J  ~ r ~~'-"32528                                 30           1 1   t0.|1            lit        544          t13        IN         1.11    1       1r                     1i         1 no         nM         IS
Ub tlowe.st                                      6.A         6 6.        I 2.5                                                                                   I 
~~~15  *1~~~*!~Isl                     3I.52    I 1-o          1        66.66         13                      1                                                 *          ,
-;m                   w I. 1I                                                 A
Fl                                                                                                                       E          !         l r:   " 11A  13 3         339          65          St    1*I
hi turn  hint                  ~~~~~~~~~11414-111    3.66  6.161    MA56         In         664          36         516          M6         1645          6o1           16         M1         15     -   ,
63~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
4.          PI: 1 I   111.   3                 11s  13   I nI                      3           I           1!                       4
::::::-::: ::::::::::::::::: :::g::::           . ::..:: .z ::::::::u:: ::::::::  :::::::::::::::z::S:::: Z:::S::::SX:::zu  :tZ?ZsUtflZZZ? SZ                     ::::::. .._
t4*t'"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+11 1.sVA.    9



INDONESIA                                                             ANNEX 8
SULAWESI-IRIAN JAVA t'RBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                              Page 14 of 15
13;                                                                                         *5  aI vPits46 mlh
Wmru   SfArEuEml
136118       1161,       16U          1       1!/9 1 IM/9e 5W   -                       r  t  j  I  c          t  tt----- tt
---  ---------------.ht let uud                                i       h     it    6 n    19 tItaIs,          1"2           1313       1,94         It"           19           1111         13            m         26e           2
Itt hrStl    are  uIgblittm  - IKC                N112       5.              . U1. I             13 75      S2.21         6.l 6*2---                                   --4.1-
IISPsst.Iat spk                                    n  n.  n3                 U.3s   40.61    3.1   t1,1                    U.U   surn               ssS n1. ss.1                                                   NOt ssn  sn.sn5s3
19  P isio  sr"                                9- 38          l        QJ         40          3.18        51           1           I 533I                                  s i 11  31 11S.  is                 S.w .
ntlw Cowtims                                                 98                               4.17 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~621 535           696          C.1         I.116       3.11          I -
6l3     bS1i.  t u_  lg r -                           l      I 2 n: 1.i               2.1         11.1 16.5                                                             -1.l '.91  6.'  1.6  1.1  : 13.91  331.6   :6.1         11C
2t 15 itct_ttttt-                      t Ut '  2 1  .11        32.t   t    31.311  U4.;il         3I.:L1     34.2tt   i     l.9.1  35.911           21.141       26.531       21.73        25.631      25.331      21.64         i!. :L
261 Sitf PI-t ttl' - wrdsac 'i                    429.'    1415.1         113.4       131.1      '43 .1     2 1I.'        2254.*    2343.1         2322.!       2513.7       H'.L?         2615.3      2111.2      2613.6       211-.1
16? awm       'or It    an                                      2::           331        DI          235        421          421         42           15C 3IS                               I 153       1              669 1          1
M6          lb,f  hwm,~Ii                                    211.31       3121-1      454. 2'        2                       61         6                          113           31         1.158       I'll?       '136I         !.II
ill  uuciim lees                                    1.31       I."          '2.93      26 .                       6f          n           31           i3            39           14           u           of          n              ;6
21- rhII           . _4t.15                                   I3.1           1.41       4.15           6         12           11          14           15            19           is           23          23          24            n
R1U  lelAl Oretltu   hy"pe,                       32S6       213.23       392.s5      431.12        334         133          61          4U l4,                   1.312        I.11         1,25        1,2S        l,1           l.U
_-6   n1 n                      nrs6              n           tt16         n           U1                                                                 1           4            2 6s
of                                               n-86          6A          6.6       M.t            4           o1           a           21          123           1     u1 12               to 123                  lit           112
l ha  haIs3 i f4g IN                                13.2             .4      13I            6          26216                    314          415           4 I11                    t11          146          NI            5?
I36trgcatou    -                               6Krb  .U' 31.11           6.3      U3.111         Ad         t1                                                                                          6           6            N II
pl    r mu                                          .66      3.36           6.36       6.36         M                        44          I             I             3            6 n         n
fotl ortlu        es hI n                     511       131.62        225.64    111.2            Si        24il 23 6                              415 362      432                        m1e                     M82             62
U      sIrt :q : LS u g   .        11b6or     6.18       36.61        225.36      11.12          Il 2:                   236 123                  32M            U'                       233         243         '3I            34 l
t OSunc ievi                                     10          *.K          IA         1t.l3         tl          11          IIS         It1          t3l           21,          tS1          ll           3 11Ut
tlvistin  d  *ttr 6ts .   u   hi                   6.         1.3           1.           .1i 1t                                          31            11           I             I            II         2           2               t
I       16  l         I ers1 11.93                      U.l:         231.35      161.12         31                      2U         21             3l          I2           2t 61                     114 48                     I"I
in         i                                        6.I6[s.3t                  3          3           2 .9  9I                            36 lo.  I  I              1      1       13 I2       132         Ih           4l           22r
mrn  SIsal                               61.11       63          1231.0      16.12          is         Il            M11        164          "1            2 349 36                                1264
l   |^t$tTLifettue~~~~~~~~IA                                               .':1    n                           9 t 3:       ? |14s              8       sX         aa  293 1  Il  4ts42                    33           gS
r lo lss .~~~~~~9I" .   @@@  .5@2   n                                                                   s a  31 g                                       s 1^                              011
-E "    "'"''. "-.2s                                                                  1 2                                               12    St...              Iz 1.. 2
Mt  lcmm  (Low)                                M.         121          23-.3      11.6                                                                                                     M 7:R                    M            4   :  2| 1"4|l|     
: :       131           146        16         Is$         Ill           IN         IN            321          261          161           Nt                      136
1                                                 36.3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~W   4.t 46661      41643      41636        41.
.U8     4l.ft         U: 'S                                :: .*                                                                                                              19- g
m         il:1          1111   ,?:3    4:3    :11                       J:3         1:                                      11                         :3           :           1:,11,
636   1421        16.1113       .1       Il  1133I                              'I                                                   i



...................................................::.z...   Wi
6-:15       li         Sl         ILK         Iii       t55ls                  ';is        uia; Siui t             5?       Nil       It5             a.        Oil                     s         q         L2   CI
a'c        ms:    iii            as aSt:g:    usl    all S                    z ig    iii            u.t    ' us-a sill                                                             *I-2NSJ  mis  wm} i
utl lls    *~i  tSU!                          5  Ht5  tSil   tIt  1                                    U   t           t?            U.  Itl  IHI Si' 0!j   iA'  io uI: Ii nt:
111,     Ugs  AI         I      $pn        %.' ;st       ; p i     It ;s;      ;.I                   tls  :  1    I;        Vn 11                             ?                A                 a 
ttH        1 .    S    1 .  !S     V       11  F    V    K  'a     v   r       *j         s          '   ;   if    K -1m                   s           K                                   : st:lt, U  l.. ic
Ei t                S           Iii        I                                                                                                                                            cui it
U VI                                                     it        if nt                  Isl tn  nU                 Uu SSt    1Ut                                     IVI Ug   il    - t u        i    *g
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  .                                                                                         ......  .  .              I
It,
bl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2tl  *l  2  221 11 :n21:::::l:2 t                                                                                                         .....SH    S *iLvd  iC!u  -Ml {@
isa  iaa        'ma1        as"        Ms         sI         st          Ms         si    I   II          ;,s1        nsal       si-n        (51llip    it'll                             (331  s      : iN
I"         1s;        its        "I    ,      s         at,        si         ti          11         I          I                 11 1  l'S                    Iit 12till
itit    t1Z1t                    I      tt tit                     I"         sit         ER        ei1         1Si1       to tn-t l                                                                           no
M      I              "I         lot        fit         Ki.        s,i         B;         ft         i          *tit *H       tI       t:s         1    1  gt                        i tIU3 tl
e         ite         W t         ll        iil           s        OR         all        Ill         11          1t        I' I                     ml           t1
6ii             Ci          inv        si.        Ill         o sZ                    :11       1111        lo
n   t  tt  t       U           1!         U          a          U           U          *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 1  W- ti         0tt    t-SI                     n                      t-: 
I"'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gt St  It  N-*11'1 '  '1U1  9:1'1 X   .                                                                    t . 1' 1,    U 14tt Uut-1
tIS       tiN tl        I        I   I       Cli        iii tit Uli Uit                              sIt        iSt         it rsu     11 NALi l" Nl                                                                I
tit"       In S   tl i-|t        @ttt        l t$ E"1 In             tl     6:          I"t  K-l        W-|       U-II   t-"S     t @UI           t-l         -  l                           -"i"
t          II          1          as         ts          K         It          IIa                                                     11                       IC's                    liJit  on
tit         t'        sa "ii tit  :i Ill                                      N           ii           1"Iwlntso     .
UI         UU1        tit        Ill         lI         t                                 tUI        IUI         IUI 5_    I"!w ta t5lt3                                                                            o
P~I        pi         PSSiof     I           It         is         Is                     ItN                                                                  a: *IIai   uutre'  fit
--------------- -- -- -------- ------------ --         --- -- t-- --- ---- -------------------------------------   -l                 nu -l -   ---  - --  - ----- --                                  l
Sit " 1                M          tit                                          fog'   I  t                                                                                             0 4ttll
a11         I'mis    el           a sil       sss              goJe l
551 Sil til  iS 0    tIllit    I'tiii        guitt    rsrait   3gu.1i   Sir                            Lis        gAM                                           ,
:1  .4S  t' It                                            v          Ill~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IPSa,*35  l
U    I           I          I.         1.1          11~~~~~S                         .2      .       1 
u-I        Is          s          lus       usa1       usi1          Ms        us1        Usa       usi1          uis  . t... p   i t' ll v          snip    W
~~.L  ff51  (IS  555        iii        1:                I      II    i-                                              I:Ia         ri.        E '
.-.---.-.-.----...--.----II...........
Nib,131111                                                                         imaavl mut                                                                                                               h
VI S3MOUZI



INDONESIA
SUIAWESI-IRIAN  JAYA URBAAN DFVELOPMENT PROJECT                    ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 9
UJUNG PANDANG
NW   1TEl                iRPfLnr U           I                REPELITA IV                       REPELTA V                      IREPEUTA VI   TOrAL A
63134    .4/.6 SW S66   66137   67186   *It   6930  6011    91092   WM 9            S4 2Mb   -11016        1-6 119    _ o_Ill
SOURCE OF FUNDS-ROUTINE                                                                                      POWECTIOS poo:
2 Tans                                136A.4   1606.0  2013.7  20963  2667.2  2606.S  30440   3609.2        .  45.           .      09 -'26T   24693.6    9-9%
3 s5baMo Chgu9                        1512.1   2176.4  2672.6  2996.7  2760.0  278a.0  3117.8  3667.6  4174.2  4506.3  47765  565. 0  607.   26026-1   II_I
4 Ohnaso.ntarprts.ctc.fcidF.. on Lem    601.4    367.7   400.5   367.4   839.0   99e.6  1466.4  19500  2081.0  2209.0  2346.0  2491.0  2046-0  1172.0   602'
6 FEDAJPN3                             046.6   1017.7  1036.4  1208.6  15230   1566.9  1768.6  21104  24269  2791.0  3209.6  3601.1  4244.7  163633    E.0
6 800                                 66.0    7971.1  10912.4  11617.9  12132.0  13629.0  16564.6  10796.9 18641.8 21135t6 23706.7 2596.1 262.6  120114.2   12.2t
7 5an tatm n on
* TOTAL ROUTINE REVENUE              11101.6  13157.0 1700.6 1206.6  19611.2 21660.9 26360.3 27z3.3 31046.4 35176.1 36046.b 43637.1  46366.2  197671.3   11.F
4m  louU   Exponldts
10 C0me Chiet fxcutlve and stals       3607.2   4221.2  8316.6
11 Olnm.PU                                 A 606.4   1261.1  1047.1
12 Dinam-dinm An o0mrs                 3042.2   4456.7  636.
13 oCs                                  666.    1366,1  1462.6                                                                                               _
14 TOTAL ROUTINE EXPENDf                mo.3      .   1471.1 e1se.0  161o0.0  17667.0 20797.1  22.0 26160.1 23366.0 32126.6 30b?.7 41434.6  40476.9    1
ROltINE SURPLUS                     1611.2   IM.S   206.   21616   3661.2  4013.9  5,103.2  4604.3  6476.2  5621.1  6117.7 _666.4  6331.6  31046.1    6.6
16 Local DMl Income                       0.0      0.0    70.2     7.4
10 TOTAL boLOCALIESOUICES              1611.2   160.6  2372.)  2624.2  3661.2  4013.9  6163.2  4604.3  6476.2  6621 1  6117.7  6e964  69316  31046A1    66
bus Dow Sa4ma                      11113.2  tI0.9   31.1*    666.7   603    1660.1  1676.0  13616.6  1602.6  2034.1  1671.3  1918.6  161.4   6376.2    6.
C    RNWTION to DEVELOPMENT             616.0   OM    2U7.e  196.6  3046.1  213.6  3566.2  320r.7  3663.3  3767.0  4146.4  4760.6  6070.2  2167 S    9.e
OTHER INCOME
is Cantei-9ran,s                          0.0      0.0     0.0   332.4   646.4  1773.3  1900.9  2014.0  22607  24863   1700?  23120   13i24   10064 1 -
le Procncia - grants                     37.6    324.9     0.0   309.3    71.1  6e3.0   790.0   s643   6600   1156 1   9536   9973   11438   49026            6.
20 Loans. Locli (ROI. inpws-pasar. other    246.7  0.0   500.0   960.0      0.0  1064.0  2201.0   66.9
21 Lome. ODMtbanE        IUV.IOP         2.7    140.0   66.o  1164.0  1100.0  1119.3    73.1  2666.3   6000  2700.0  20000   9000  2160 0   6960 0             1.
22  pigso (Geneal                      243.7   2147.3  3363.1  276M.6  3031.2  2412.7  2636.7  6637  2603.1  2971 3  31495  33385   3S386   1S601 3   -6_
topie IOWP                                                                       0.0     0.0     0.0  2661.6  2642.6  3k . o   3193.6  3365.4  15116.4   0o
Oierelewaiaya                                                                    0.0     0.0     0.0  1290.0  1446.0   632.0  1375.0  1567.0    s29.0   o0.
29 TOTAL DEVELOPMENT FUNDS   3401.6   2M5.   610.3  746.8  7666.6  9142.1  11196.9 16196.9 1406.7 1739261 16766.3  16697.6  16667.7  601.3    4.4
DEVELOPMENT EXPENCITURE
24 htpe-aEpndlhu.e(nonMOP)             2403.7   2147.3  2063.1  2766.6  3031.2  2412.7  2636.7  66.-   2031  2971 3  3149.6  3336S  36366   156011    4.
26 Economfi                             236.5    164.0   40l6                     469.0  2094.6   916 s
26 Seuos                                 66.1    163.4   167.4  2466.5  2222.6  2291.0  2004.5  2661.0  2643.9  30145   3195-4  3367.1  360 3   16031-2    31e
27 aGeneal                              670.4    662.0  1106.9
26 UubSn                                171.7     3. I  1967.6  2471.6  2621.0  3?1S.6  4271.0  627.6
26 PMP                                                                                                    8343 1  161606  9S0359  9673.4  11437.6  6070.6    o.o0
36 TOTAL DEVELOPMENT                   3129.4   3166  0462.  7666.7  774.6  6912.6 11066.7  16156.7 1300.1 17666.4 1l506 16669.0 1666.   62713L               4.1
RFKOUOH  FW11 Mf               162.0     64.2   109.6   303.0    66.1   210 1   439.7   529.9   5W.1   634.7   460 4   374.9   673.5    s6.           1
J  CAMSR lIE3DFOpR"W6qD              S4.2    109.6   303.0   u6.1   210.1   439.7   U29.9    eo.l 1    34.7   4eo.4   374.9   5t3.6   894 4    =94 41    9t
UERMICE COVERAGE RATI                  1.0      1.6     7.3     3.3     6.1      2.1     3.3     3.3     3.4     2.9      3.1     3.6     3.7      16.6    2.
_p                                        54.2     0.    363       61       101 43.7           529.9   1   6        4.    34        5.    64          64 r



INDONESIA                                     ANNFX  9
SULAWESI-IRIAN JAVA  IRBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                         Page 2  of 9
BITUNG
MUNdKWALCIFY
.E    ITEM                   IREPELITA III                         REPELITA IV                      REPELITA V                         |REPEUA Vl   TOTAL  4.-
SOURCE OF FUNDS-ROUTINE                                                                                     -: 1o 6t
2Tans                                                                                  PrAma~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~80cTU pEw0O
2 TaICs                                   102.4     88.0    609.8    63.1    58.1    66.0    77r9   109.4   191.1    175.3   195    2051    2140   941.7    44
3 rie. scarge.                            1464     131.8   134 9    134.0   166.7   168.7   233 1   301.6   437.3    60.4  560.1   574.2   6695   2e66.4  un
4 De'am.in.4. -  nee.etc                   12.8      7.1    11.0    10.3       2.9    13.7     4.7      6.1      64       6.7      6.0     6.4     of    30.2    0.
6 4PEDANB9                                 14.6     84.4    89.9   167.7   196.1   196.1   183.9   296.6   366.9    427.1   612.6   6150   7380   264J6    20.
O So0                                     469.6    534.8   769.6   769.9   774.7   845.0  1022.4  1136.0   1193.6   1286.1  1341.0  142115  1607 1  6726 '    6.
7 Sht teWm kas                                                                                                                                              _
TOTAL ROUTINE REVENUE                    79o      6464i1  1086.2  1146.6  1196.6  1218.6  18220   1644.6  2143.    2361.6  200S4  2022.1  3064.3 13017.0   10.f
kma Rouum Exp adwuaw
10 CouncIl Chie enowliv. and stal          710.4    733.1   930.1
I1 OI na. PU                                 6.2     12.3    12.8
12 0b1n-d,nas AN othe                       20.4     24.0    24.7
i3 Other                                    549      62.7   tO.0
14 TOTAL ROUTINE EXPENDITURE               793.9    632.1  1067.4  1070.1  1131.8  1196.6  1469.6  1732.2  1861    194663  2001  2186.9  2318.6  10361.0            6
ROUTINE SURPLUS                           1.7     14.0     7.8    76.6    00.7    09.9    62A4   11l3    307A         436.3   6423   636.3   746.7  2666.o   45.
15 Local Devhl Ime                          36.9     16.6    44.4    26.3       2.6     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      Oft      0.0     0.0     00       0-0
13 TOTAL bom LdAL IESCUACES                 38.6     30.8    52.2   100.6    69 3    09        62.4   116.3   307.4    436.3   642.3   63S3   745 7  26660    45
bee ODeb ServIce                         0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     7.8    19.2      1902     16.6    16.6    166      79.4   16
CONTRIBUTIONoIDEVELOPMENT                  30.6      30.6    62.2   100.8    09.3    09.9    62.4   108.6   288.2    416.1   6267   61s7    7291   2617.8   46.4    O
OTHER INCOME
1  Centsrai   ants                         620      40.6    26.4    30 1    37,C    30.9       00       0.0   230.7    480.0  11183   6320   2606  2753.6
19 LrWo.Lcaal   D In                                                                    0.1    67.6    26.0    96.4       67.3   152.0   133.0    330   470.7    2.
20 Loas. Local .presa.oha)
21 L2 n  MOP                                                                                                    126.0    160.0   1760   2000   2260   6750
22 hpa (Genea                                2.3    754.7  1208.0   499.4   476.3   27607   200.0  1405.8   1286.2   1362.3  1444.0  1530 7  1622 5  7244 6         2
hp" kg IonOP                                                                         0.0     0 0      0.0   23062    217.    230.6   244.4   2590   1166 5
Oteshw adya                                                                          0.0      0.0     0.0    80,0      80.0    49.0    50.0    59 0   316 0
23 TOTALDEVELOPMEN  FUNDS                  122,9    826.1  1254.0   030.3   662.0   317.6   320.0  16433   2396.7   27M9.2  364.6  340.7  32143  16386    16l
DEVELOPUENT EXPENDITURE|
24 DEVELOEEnd TeXnPNDI            E   I    0.0    764.7  1206.0   499.4   476.3   276.7   200.0  1406.6  1266.2   1362.3  14440   15307  16225   72446 27
25 Economc
26 Socil                                    49 S     23.9    31.9                                                                                               I
27 G.m.a.                                    1.5      2.9      1.0   128.7   105.0    99.6   117.2   142.1    176.0    220.0   320.0   3800   40.0   1508.0   226
26 Ukban                                    79.8     44 4    43.3
29R J                                                                                                           851.6   11572   1935.1 i5068   1-i.-3   6605C' _       I
30 TOTAL DEVELOPMENT                       130.6    826.9  1262.2   62,.1   681.3   370.3   317.2  1647.9  2314.6   2736.5  369.1  3417.5  318668  I357    1585i
SALANcE  .0IjGHUFOF.M _                       9.2      13       IS      39       o0      74      37      116       0.9       18     31 5    269     l6l      69F  967
9AL.ENcECAIVIEDF a                            ,,~ 1.3  I.S      3.9     6.0      7.4     87      11 t5    6.9      1.8     31.5    26.9    1a 1    456    456    460*a
DEHT SERVICECOVERAGE RATIO                    0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    14.       16.0     22.7    327    36.3    44 9    336 I 6j4
S.owc.'s Hmsoi,~ DiL. .jt.pe~ FY rm'. I h  he.u b~,~g ,eahnon rtpf .wcu12 2nj Je b  IUIDP' r.p.m



INDONESIA
SiLAWESI-IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 9
MANADO
MUNICIPALITY
INi    ITEM                |REPELITA III       J                  REPELITA IV                        REPELITA V                        REPELITA VI   iO.TAI   Anu   1
_____________________________    83/84          84/85   a6/se   86187    87188    88189    89/90   90191    91192    92/93   63/94    94196   96/96  91 96    Growth
SOURCE OF FUNDS-ROIJTINE                                                                                           PIoJECToN0 PERIO
2 Taxes                                   706.4   687.6   658.5   7130    902 9   16830   1459 7  16878   17900   1879.6  1992.2  21122   223- 9          100135     58%
3 Seivice Charge                          948 4   1060 7   1054 1  1122.9  17614   2263 2  2818.1  3484,2  3892.0  4209 8  4710 4  4989 3  5282 s  23083             8 6 7s
4   mnas. enteipseeS. eic                  51 2     59 4    160 6    144.0   170 8    400 4    172.6   1850    196 0    208 0    220 0    233 0    247 0    12040     6 0os
5 IPEDaPsB                                i758   e47 1    1695   269.0   613.2    412.8   540.4   9694   11734   1244.1  1318.4  13972   14808    66837              48t
6 SDO                                    1263.6  14235   1878.2  1918.4  1979.3  2071.1  24289  28766   2876.3  4147.9  45419   49734   5445 9   21I854    23 6
7 Shot term loans
S TOTAL ROUTINE REVENUE                  _.-- 6  3478s3  320.9  4167.3  6327.8  68306   7419.7  9203.3   927.1  11689.1  12782-9  1370AI 146956   628004             98s
less oloio EWendelu?
10 Coucid. Chwf execultwe  d slall        1633.2  1917.4  2J86.4
I Onas. PU                                 272 2    198.4   238-2
12 Dmas-denas AM others                    122 7   137 6    156 6
Q3 Other                                   388 4    338 1    375.2
14 TOTALROUTINEEXPENDITURE    2416.5  2591.6  3156.4  3420.0  4202.6  6143.6  5484.9  7380.4  806a.6  662-3  9o63.7  10s587  116870   l871?4                           96
ROUTINE SURPLUS                         1735.    886.8    764.6   747.3  1125.1  1687.0   1934.8  184Z9   1868.1  2663.8  31192  3123.4   31088   140831    II
15 LocalDevel Incorm                       113.1   24b4    116.8    60.6    60.6    44.9         0.0      0.0    70.0                                         700
16 TOTAl bhm LOCAL RE'sOURCtLS              482   1132.2  a86 3   807.9  118S.7  1731.9  1934.8  1842.9  1938.1  2863.8  3119 2   3121 4   3108 6   14253 1   110 0             .
bee Debtswlae                           36.0    34.3    29.8    38.8    38.8    40.1    37.0   136.3   227.8   m.o    mo    322.0    3220    1315.8   I&9.
CONTRBUUTIONtoDEVELOPMENT               8132   1097.9   861.6   769.1  11469   1691.6  1897.7  1707.6  1719.3  2941.6  28972   28014   278 1   128373    103
OTHER INCOME
l8 Cenkal - grants                                                                                              960.1  1737.7  23278   19959   14743    95l58
19 PEovir-cial - grant                                                                                          502.0   745 0   1096.0  1047 0   1013 0   4403 0
20 Loans LocalM(R0I.knpts-pasar.olhe.;     126.0      66
21 Loans. IUIOP                                                                                                 600.0  1200.0  27C0.0  2100.0  2800 0   9300 0
22 Inpres(Genecul)                         4938    606.7  2219.3  4448.4  1911.8    82P6   1130.0  2599.1  11939   1266.6  1341.4  14219   15072    67300   -1031
hnprs Ir ittlOP                                                                                             1661.2  1654.9  1754.2  18659.4  1971.0   88J0 a
Olhe,shwadaya                       ._                 _        __                                           220.0   2610    342.0   577.0   611 0    2011 o
23 TOTAL DEVELOPMENT FUNDS                1436.0  1711.2  3070.11  6217.6  3058.7  2621.4  3027.7  4306.7  7667.6  906.9  12468.7  11802.6  12163.1  636S78    231S
DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE
24  inpresExpetdWities(nn ImUIp)           493.8   606.7  2219.3  4448.4   19118    829.6  11300  25991   1193.9  1265.6  1341.4  14219   15072    67300    103
25 Econovnwc                               317.2   S18.7   402.7   390.0
26 Social                                   63.4   133.8   115.8   325.0
27 Gensral                                 492.4   421.3   230.8   175.0  1038.6  1534.9  2151.6  1404 5   1123 6   1191.0  1262.5  1338 2   141865   6333 8          0
28  krban
29 iUIP                                                   .                                                    5618.6  6919.5  968 6  89800  9262.6  40449 2
30 TOTAL DEVELOPMENT                      1356.8  178056  k9811-4  5a38.4  2948.4  2364-5  3281.6  40036   7936.0  9376.0  12272.6  11740.1  12188-4  536130    249S
BALANCE: 9BOUG g FORWARD                      1-2    79.4    IC. I   112.5    -8.4   101 9   2588          4 9   308.0    396    16095   355 6    4101 3e0
tALANCECARREDFORWARD                         79.4    10.1   112.5    -84    1019    2588          49    3080      396    169.6   355.6   4181    3928         3928
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO                  21.0    25.9    25.7    19.3    29.0    42.1    62.2    13.6          8.2    12.9    14.1       9.7      9.7      107    -67S
__ic.  -trr  _a                                                                           __e~  ,Y                                                           .. .brIihan,pi/VI ~I-IeuI.PeeShu(.. YreI? ,d yMEO  e



INDONESIA                                     ANNEX  9
atT17.AU-TRTAU  TAVA *TDAN  nW1?T RPNT  PROJECT                        PLge 4  of 9
PALU-DONGGALA
REGENCY
Loa    ITEM                IREPELI   I        I                  REPELITA IV            1          REPELUTA V                          IREPELITA VI    TOTALH
83104    8486    J5m6   887   87/0    eUt9   80tS0   90191             91192    02163    M0M4   94195    96108  01-4S   ____
SOURCE OF FUNDS-ROUTINE                                                                                             CnPAGFOW IEFOO
2 Tans                                   316.9    336.2   319.6   343.3   613.3   614.1   676.8    602.3    716.0    804.0   81.0    944.7  1049.0   404.7  10.
3 SeniveChrgne                           300.8   3S.4   321.3   623.4   449.9   501.3   64908    1004.7   1102.0   1253.0  1386.0   1486.9  1623.1   0849.1  10.1
4 Ohnm. rnuqs".b ne                       94.7    146.6   120.8   136.0    83.8   128.0   136.0    206.8    210.0    232.0   246.0    261.0   277.0   1236.0   a.
5 UEDArSM                                196.0    203.3    m.6   267.A   457.0   386.4   826.6   1409.8   1864.0   2034.0  2229.0   2630.0  2787.0  11434.0  14.
* SDO                                   1607.6   1704.9  2218.3  2482.0  2730.2  2616.9  2965.8   2374.9   2681.1   2831.5  3106.2   3407.6  3738.0  18664.4   0.
7 Shof lenn  erk
a TOTAL ROUTINE FIVENUE                 251.    2774.4  3202C6  3741.6  4234.2  4306.7  6062f9    6648.6   6472.1   7164.6  78W7          *.2 02    474.1  39687.1  10%
beg RAuth. Eupendha,
10 Cagascg. Cah e*xcmae *Nd elan         1391.6   1662.0  1771.4
11 DCmn. PU                               68.6      73.2    90.0
12 Das-dw,a As o89m                      360.3    418.4   468.1
13 OUe                                   6164    664.2   661.2                                                ___
1  TOTAL ROUTINE EXPENDITURI   2                  2U07.   3179.   3400.0  3740.0  4213.   4662.6   4439.4   4870.1   6342z6  687    642.2  7062.P  296.4 
FRUTINE SURPLUS                       161A     -3.4    22.0   341.6   494.2    29.1   600.3   126.1   1602.    1812.0  16               2190.9  2421.3  10031.7  14
16 LocaIDmvu* boxms                      242.6    334.1   179.6    6.1    66o    664.6   631.4    467.0    464.0    613.0   644.            677.0   612.0   2730.0
16 TOTAL be  LOCAL *WAGMAX8              423.6    300.7   202.1   306.6   609.2   509   1031.7   1686.0   208.1   2326.0  2540.6   2776.0  3033.3  127e617   1
kem Dom amih                           32.5     70.6    70.0    70.0    62S       70.0    2.3    60.0    2B7.5    297.6   207.6    27.5   297.6   16660_
COONfFWTRI           to DEVElOPM         31"1     230.7   1326    =L.   506.7   8z.   1006.6   1181.0   178.6   2007.   225&0   2469.4  2746.6  11324.2   1c
OTHEROINOME
16 C    --a                                                                                                     2032.3   1480.4   133.      701.1  1767.0   7834.6
19 *        -                                                                                                    666.6    669.9   0263      "6Zs6   702.6   3137.0
S.em, Lee _       . Om  ee-P    lIme                       447.7
1 L . RNDP                                                                                                     6eo0.0    300.o 0   oo.o    200.0   eo.o    20oo.o
O2 *me Pfa8me                           7066A   10003.4  4761.3  6620.0  7020.6  6772    3734.3   9164.1   6324.0   8623.56 930   99i4.0  10606.9  40923.3   2.
hree kwi MP                                                                                                 1019.0   1060.2  114L0    12137   1266.5   6744.3
Omam10wemaalz                                    _                                                            90.0      66.0   100.0    106.0   160.0    640.0
23 TOTAL DEVELOPME1T FUNDS    74U   1CiIo  6331.6   647.2  7527.3  720.6  4730.6  10326.1  14320.4  14406L6 18600A   1629L0  17600.7  776001   IIA
DEVELOPMENT EXNURE
2t pr"e E pemdImwej 'wm M           7066U   10003.4  4761.3  6620.6  7020.6  6776  3734.3   9164.1   6324.0    82,3.6  066;L9   9914.0  10606.9  489M33   2.
so" bchS14.5                                    72.2    46.3
Ike hn n                              30.0      37.6    66.1   216.0   337.0   421.6  1202.0   1200.0   1336.6   1416.7  1600.7   2701.0  2010.0  10241.6  17.4
8Urbn                                166J    196.7   694.0
RONP                                                                                                       4377.7   3749.2  4429.4   3131.6  4700.6  20366A   2L8.
TOTAL DEVELOPMENT                    7271.   180311A   6446.7  676.   7367.6  7194.2  60163   10424.1  14037.3  13966.4  15283.6  16746.5  10010.6  7774.6  11
mOUWiff IFOPCWW                  71.2    262.0   174.2    89.0   170.8   340.3   442.6    100.0         07.0    350.1   706.2   1296.2   6M4.6       67.0
covom UWCECED                   22.      174.2    69.0   170.6   340.3   442.0   10.0         67.0    380.1    70.2  1296.2        34.0   466       466.
SERVICE COVER E RATO                  e      -0.s     03       4.9     0.4 OA    A     10.        24        66       63                7.7  0A
~~~~~_                                                                                    ____                                          -r - _ _ r _ ~     _ ~ rr



INDONESIA
SUILAWESI-IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                     ANNEX 9
PARr'D AM                                            Page 5  of 9
MUhICIPALITi
Llt   sitE                                               a7/8  Be.*S  8990  190/9l 1*192  12i93  13/Il  I4,gs             16,li  S7 1?W  9011 1. 20M
I raTes                                                   in     178    215     252    214    344    30             41S    434   4*0       e    517
2  Servic* Charges                                        3S2    400    582     S23  1.116  1.15?  1.45,  1.630  3.12,  1.6f5  1.810  1.879  I,.S
3  Dines. enterprises. *tc                                 43     7S     91     341    103    109    115    122    130    130    116    ISS       61S
4  NO*s Shar* in wehicle tam                               13    109    226     252    315    472    503    533    565    51S    635    673    713
S    Fetal PDS S  SP                                      161     63   .113   1.147  1.627 2.062  2.4S1  2.714  2. 91   2.61S  3.051 3,194  3.360
_IIIE ElUlNDTUltS
6  C.mcil. Chief ewecutive and staff                    1.020
r  Sitn. PU                                               nS
*   fines-dine, All ethers                              1.682
I  Other                                                  143
*    Tetal Awtine E_p -e ture                           2.4W2  3.231  3.932   4.527  5.028  5.31   5.611  6.04   6.403  6.93  7.1ff  7.633  8.063
ElaM                                                    2.314  2.571  3.121   3.311  3.113 3.2   4.058  4.301 4.S51  4.833  5.123  5.430  5.S7S
*    Hot _stine Ependitrten (nt of S00)                   516   446    611   1,136  1.41  I.S51 I1.64 17.45  1.04   1.410  2.012  2.202  2.327
a    Oet Seutiue Funds Av ailable for Debt Service
(liew S - lane 12)                                    6      16    302     530     11    531    620    16   1.042    905   191       12  3.053
14        SERI CE                                          20      20     20   7 9       71     11      11    391    44    404    403    403    402
is    "t Asutine funds Available for Developnt
(Ian  13 - line 14)                                  (A      76   292      459    332    4S2    741    512      30    S01    67S    St09    650
UEWELUMNT FUIIDI h
N  Local Oe,l . Incom                                       11            0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0       0      0
n    Nt dew. income - local sorces (lanes 15 a 16)         11      10   262      41"    332    452    741    572    630    501    576    509    650
W    c-ance carried foruwd (line 36. previous y ear)       144     16    4*       66     60      0       0      0    11"    202    202    202    201
31 rWO  1K I                                                0      30     s6     132    140    a4"    IS     177  11?   3*1    119    211   224
80  Provincial yants (Inpres OfI4 S1)                       0    120    240     320    341    311    303    401    130    456    463    512    543
21  Leans.  .-IUIS3P                                         0      0      0       0    300    460    420       0      0      0       U      0      0
E2  Las.  UlIUp                                              0      0      0       0    653    4SS       0      0      0      0       0      0      0
3  Inpree (Genral- - educetin. health.  tc.)              S30    227    153      476    50?    530    S70    60"    14   6S79    7Z0    763    609
*4 Ipr*9 11K It                                              0    170   200      500    533    5ss    60o    645   6S?    133    761    032    661
S  Inpres Jaian                                              0    100    300     617    671  1.06   1.117  1.317  1. 44   1.593  1.753  I.12   2.121
36   fetal Funds Availabl* for Dee1lopment Ewpd.           76S   6113  1.30?   2.6S0  3.756  4.090  4.0or   3.712  4.220  4.352  4.?11   5.03?  5.435
I?  iEm.uP,Mu  OE)U3St eES
*  Imps, Empedttwures (mc. IUIIP)                         s3      49     651   1.13  1.113  2.1W  2.3?2  2.566  2.M    3.005  3.253  3.523  3.016
1   TI Ir- financed Enpenmtiss (ici. IUlIOP)                0    IS0    326      452    463    510    541    513    "W  l14    683    724    71?
se - com 
s Social                                                   145     62    I64     341    506    70S    no       s?    317    251    26    2m       32S
S3 Sham                  3
3  IwSp                                                     "A     4      71     124   6o      GM0   370    1o?    31?    251    26 28       5    325
U      fetal t e 1   Iep_nt E_peituwr                     683    7SS  1.221   2.510  3.756  4.010  4.074  3.53  4.016  4.151  4.512  4.03S  5.234
J6  .UItUS (DEFICIT) (line 26 - lin  35)                   n1    47       66      s0      0      0       0    1"    202    202    202    201    201
DM  COlfAIMME lUlGl
W  PfOSOP   Alec.to Dew.Expd(lines 136 If -line 3)   145    109    243           465    412   452      41    314   634    502    SS6   s5         650
M  PNSSvM  Allocated to IUZIP (line 3? m SOX) ,5                  47      n      124   206    22S    30   Is?    313    251    26    21          325
91  Mt PISPM  Avail. for Debt Ser.(lin  134   1.5)3        20     20      20      7n     ?      71      ?     56    60S    606    605    60       604
U9 Debt Coverase tatie
ai.. St divided by Aine 14)                            1.0    3.0   '.0      1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.5    1.5    1.S    1.5    1.5    3.5
Maist lbsterical data Cup to fy IN1 r) were taken fren budgt realization report; forecasts           by IUIOP rWTsk Farce and  K II.
*  *Pl0icabl  startin  FV 139944 hwa.... o.  . th re nr a.mw,...i



114T'ONP.SIA
INT"ESIA                       ~~~~ANNEX 9
SULAYTESI-IRIAN  JAVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                     Page 6 of 9
GORONTALO
MUNICIPALITY
LIN   ITEB                  IREPE ITA III    I                    REPELITA IV            1         REPELUrA  V                   _      REPELITA VI    ToTA.L 
______________________________  30134  8413     sune    am?6  aiiaa    owns    am          9013      90!12    OM           am       g    KM 6 9696 14S      wl
)UWRCE OF FUNOS-PROUTINE                                                                                r  t            ~-'.           ;
2 Tax..                                  064      109.3   132.7   106.2   199.3   230.2   279.1    261.9         h                                         1976.1  12.6
3 Ssbo CherCg                           142.2    211.7   276.3   402.1   4064    494.3    62.4    6S3.8    641.          M29   1020.3   1061.6  1146.4   4062.8  14.5
4   fnas. enlprulm. goo                  91.2    '97.6   106.6    17.6       8.2    67.3    42.6      64.4      67.7     61.1    648       68.7    72.6    325.1   6.
S FE0iP4SU                               46.1      66.1    62.1    60.3   113.3   119.6   161.4    224.$    360.3    402.0   442.6    483.8   610.8   2190.3  17.U
a SW                                    724.1    673.6  1170.0  1236.0  1189.6  1342.6  1612.6   1741.0   1840.6   2015.7  2207.2   2416.9  264.6.  11127.1    .
7 Shal"> n Om  .mn                                                                                                          .
e TOTAL ROUTINE REVENUE                10".9   1347.1  1742.6  l"18.   1916.6  2253.7  2e48.3   2666.8   3176.    360.3  4160.0   4501.7  4654.7  20301.3  11.1%
ha Rou,n E%wmdha
10 C;o_s Chhl .mj*x  Wmd  lN             67a.5   8a58.0  10903.4
* 1 Oh_. PU                               44.2     42.0    48.4
12 Ohn-dtnm AN ol                        272.2    264.    3090 1
13 oo.                                    74.2      72.3   142.2                                                                                              _
U TOTAL ROUTINE EXPENDITU               1069.1 127.2  1693.1  160.o0  1769.0  1961.2  2320.9   2467.9   2111.4   2547.0  3227.0   3533.0  360. 16263    9.
ROUTINE SURPLUS                        30.6    109.9   14s.6   191.2   127.8   302.6   267.4    407.9    4862    661.3  9030            9662   s0654   4033.1 I19.
16 Loeal Dwvgioom.                      231.6    241.7   160.9    76.3    70.6    32.0    38.9        31.0      32.9     34.8    36.9      391    415       165.2   60 
16 TOTALbm LOCAL LE9OtNWS                2e2.0    361.6   20A.4   286.4   198.6   334.6   290.3    436.9    616.1  . 6061    9s9    1007.3  1026.9   4216.3  Il6.
ism Dhb4Uvio_                          0.0       0.0    16.0      .0     1.0    12.6    20.0       339       33.9     31.1    19.6      16.6    11.3    112.6 -19.
NTRUTInON toDEVELOPME                 28z      361.6   2064    261.4   163.6   3ZC1    2763    406,1    464.2    6661   690.3   090.?  1016.6   4106.8  26.
OTHER 40OME
tS O       - gm                                                                                                263    13Ow.l   920.9   1142.9   609.7   6407.9   0.0
20- PLowOwid - UM    p       w                                                                                2039.4    342.5   624.2    361-a   311.6   3880.0   0.0o
21 Lo_. llDP                                                                                                   ,160.0     76.0   300.0    226.0   260.0   1000.0   0.
22 Sarl(Oso                             601.2    e66.6   729.2  1066.3   508.2   sa6.3   772.9   193.3   1032.4   1126.1  1193.7   1266.3  1341.2   6068.7  S.
hpm.    W .UDP                                                                                              991.2   1060.7  1113.7   1180.6  1261.4   6687.6
_ o. qJwa                                                                                                   3 '220.0    230.2   247.2    262.0   277.7   1240.2   0.0
23 TOTAL DEVELOPMUNT FUN                 663.0   1017.2    94.6   3006.6   691.7  1207.4  1040.2   2542.4   7602.4   4801.9  6660.0   6425.3  6017.4  23030.1  16.H
DEVELOPMENT EPEDITURF
24  . EpenduEI*W    WM               601.2    08.    729.2  1066.3   60.2  686.3   772.9   1937.3   1002.4    16.1  1193.7   1266.3  1341.2   6986.7  -7I.1
F2 n Eee_                             72.2      6&1     40.3
Sucil                                 13.3      56.9    46.6
27    i11                               167.9    102.4   116.4   210.0   218.6   471.0   260.6    301.4    319.6    336.7   360.0    380.6   403.4  '601 0    601
29  MIJIOP                           ____________________________________.____________                         6173.7   3310.0  3830.7   3616.1  S117.6  20053.1    0.0
TOTAL DEVELOMENT                     84        938.0  9064   13063   72L.   13663  1023.7   2.3            76661    4774.6  664    6280.9  462.2  27842.9  16.81
MAAMCEUaUt          4TFOBj                35.0      64.3   133.6   191.7   193.1   167.0       0.0     34.6    136.2    680    112.1    276.6   440.1    138.2  00.4
NANlCECA F IW ,                         64.3    133.6   191.7   193.1   167.9       9.0    34.6    130.2       &.0     112.1   276.8    440.1   606.4    696.4  33.
D      BnCSERV E COVERAGE RATI             0.0      O0      10.0    12.7      8.6    24.2    12.9      12.0      14.      21.3    47.6    6I.L    67.1    Z.S    48.6
_ . _S a #!_r ~-                                                                                                                -___, 0,-_ li_ _



INT)ONESIA
ANNEX 9
SITLAWJESI-TRIAN JAVA URBAN PFVFLOPMFNT PROJECT                     Page 7 of 9
PALOPO - LUWU
REGENCY
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         - -  .                                         EPEL                            _
LINE    ITEM                 IREPELITA III      I                  REPELITA IV             I        REPELITA V                       |EPELITA VI    TOTAL
63134     s41S6    S"    semy e    Se7 a    set.9  eos9    90ltl   9112   92103   931s4   0416                 im 914_
SOURCE OF FUNDS-ROUTINE                                                                                         PROJECTION PEJOD
2 laxes                                 120.@    140.0   143.2    94.6   216.3   133.0   129.0   226.4   258.0   310 5   340           3966.0   42.    15.6       3
3 Service Charges .                               1J 1 111.10  636 1   682.8   644.6   703.2   8270   123e.3  1414.0  153S 1  1678.0   1606.0  1907.0  1401.1    0.
4 Om", ntetpnes.elc                     134.1    11.8    60.7    76.4   123.1   3446    1426   372.9   396.0   4190    444.0    471.0   490.0   2221.0    6.
S  PEODAIPOB                            100.0    230.8   367.2   2ZJ.9   266.9   220.4   632.9   762. I  1100   12060   1407.0   1511.0  1619.0   6161.0   16.
6 SW0                                  4046.5    763  7214.0  6246.6  S782.2  9460.6  11306.7  12864.4  14617.7  162606  18211.0  20316.3 22643.   02226.6    1
7 Short Wm loans
a TOTAL ROUTINE REVENUE                4861.4   166.7  0341.2  9241.2  9604.1  10661.8  13038.2  16462.0  17720.7  19731.3 22064.0  24670.3 27367.8  111464.1   12.1
lae Routne Expondture
10 Council. Chief axeculvs and staaff   117.6    736.4  1666.2  2064.8  2176.8
1 1  ines. PU                            6es.       16.0    81.9    666      960
12 O.aS-dinas All others                3173.3    619.3  58762  6347 6  7231 2
13 Olher                                 392.3     90.6   426 4   421.9   464.6
14 TOTAL ROUTINE EXPENDITURE    4803.0   1400.6  8061.7  6912.9  0061e8 10666.3  13127.4  16249.7 17079.6  19129.2 21424.7  23696.6 26675.  IOS604.2   12.0
ROUTINE SURPLUS                        U.4    1UL2   2610.5    1.    -44.           5    -101.2   202.6   041.1   602.2    m.a      574.7   462.7   211WI0    ISI
15 LocalDevel. Income                    66.3    110.1   707.4   122.1   674.9   323.6  1260.9  1766.1   731.6   776.4   622.0    671.3   0236   4123.5  -12.3
16 TOTAL rotm LOCAL IE9ORCES             717.7      6.3   0s6.9   460.4   620.3   297.0  1171.7  1067.4  1372.6  13776   1481.3   14459   14063    70837    -67
lefs Debi Service                      0.0    10.0   361.9    82.2    36.0        7.2   171.7    64 .     40.0    63.6    40.0    221.0   2210         0.6   21.
NTRIBUTON to DEVELOPM"-X               717.7    3163   616.0   366.3   7663   260.8  1000.1  1002.9  1332.6  1294.0  1441.3   12Z4.9  1e16.3   6476.1
OTHER INCOME
1e C.nVal-gant                                                                                               794.3   6I.7   821.6    772.6   6424    36127
19 Povincda - grena                                                                                          161.7   164.2   200.0    196.3   22.6   9s667
20 Loans. Local (RI. Inpres-paa. o, et)  630.0                     977.1   200.0
21 Loas. IOP                                                                                                 160.0   171.0   200.0    226.0   260.0   1000.0
22 Inpr  (Qeneal                        4264.2   3007.7  4330.6  36e.0  2462.0  2966.1  3734.3  4776.1  4640.0  4919.0 .6214.2   6627.0  581.7  2P;50.6            4
kw"m br MOP                                                                                               424.1   449.6   476.6    606.2   636.    230.9
Onhwtdai                                                                                                   60.0    00.0   100.0    110.0   120.0    600.0
23 TOTAL DEVELOPMENT FUNDS              6011.,  4221.0  4946.6  6004.4  3447.3  3244.9  4734.4  61.0  7603.3  773.6  64836             862  6004.4  41287.0    IL
DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE
24 lnp5 Esxpendwtuesinon RAM            4264 2   3907.7  4330.6  3660 0  24C2.0  2965.1  3734.3  4778.1  4640 6  4919 0  6214.2   6527.0  S8SO 7  26169.5    4.
26 Economic                                6.7     62.0   119.1   116.6   110.7
26 SOCia                                  41.6     66.1    81.1   124.9    62.0
27  tGal                                1073.1    20.1   272.1  1140.3   643.0   372.8   70   1970.0   678.1   930.8   9.S   104.6  I106.6   4940.8  -10.
26 Urban
29  MOP                                                              _                                      1616.7  1641.6  1009.1   1062.7  2126.4   9667.2    0.0
30 TOTAL DEVELOPMENT                    137'.6   4230.9  4602s  A062.0  3607.6  3327.6  4616.3  6746.1  7336.4  7491.4  6200.   6666.6  90060    4067.6           6.10
BALANC  UROUGHT FO OA1U)                   33.9    461.3   463.4  S5. 1   648 5  -  961    153    231.4   164 3   4323   614I3    6672   674.             16643
LML4CECAFEDFORWAR                          481.3    463.4    6.1   648.6    9861       153   231.4   164.3   4323    614.3   667.2    874.8   78s6        7s5.6
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO                  0.0      0.0     0.8      4.0    -1.6    -3.7    -0.6      2.4    16.0      7.2    le6.       2.6     2.2     4.89
bwce  H~rcHw Dom lgme. FI job   fre ei.* im_A r4pri hrinb Oak by _P Teem



INMDNESIA
SULAWESI-IRIAN  JAYA URBAN DEVE.LOPMENT PROJECT                       ANNEX 9
Page 8 of 9
V'tIjART PFrvCrV
LZF   ITEM                   LEPELITA 1117|REPELITA IV                                            REPELITA V                         IREPELITA VI   ho'Ad
83164   84185   85t86   6t87   87186   88189   89190   90191  9_192    92193    90t94    94195   95796   1-98             towt
SOURCE OF FUNDS-ROUTINE                                                                                         PJECTION PEaOO
2 Taes                                   995   1076    IlS8       943    131.7   :S87    1574       113.7    210.0    239.0   2S8.0    2720   2880    1267.0  lC.6
3 SivinceChages                         1908   3374    3472   3369    3114   3672   4940            5030    6180    720.0   786.0    8320   8820   30360   Iv.
4 D.n*5.eene.pr.ses.cIC                 2234   274 1    1562    1273    1173   2290    1426         1826     1940    2060   2180        2310    2450    10Y4.0   6.1
S IPEDAIPB                               662    68.2    892       855    2290   2445   6329         7010    8230    938.0   9950    10850  1188.0   5029.0  I1l1
6 SOO                                  41820  47680   73516   81282  8755.1  9S342  115591   137697   iSid?2  16655.3  18320.9  201530 22168.3  02437   10.0
I Shotl wim loas nI
8 TOTAL ROUTINE REVENUE                4761-9  55.9  80o60    8772.2  9544.5 10833.5  12985.9  15329 9   16986.2  18158.3 20577.9  22s73.0 24771.3  1031.1    10.1
Itss Routene Expenditure
10 Council. Chwft executve and staff    1371 5  1470 7   1916 9  2029.6  2160 7
11 Dmas.PU                                74 5    70.6    901      929    97.7
12 Dinas-dnas Al others                 3208.7  3664 5  5907.9  6528.7  7072 3
13 Other                                  36 9    54 9    88.8    49 1    833 3
14 TOTAL ROUTINE EXPENDITUR    4891 6  5260   8003.6  8700.3  9414.0  10814 5 12918.3  15294.2  16823.6  18505.9 20365f.   22302.2 24831.4  27094.5  10.01
ROUTINESURPLUS                        703   295.1   S6t4    71.9   1305         19.1    67-6      35.7    102.6   252.4   221.3    110.8   13099    957.0  314
IS local Devel Income                     13    1394    2336    1220    131.8   1164    196.3    240.2    254.6    209.9   286.1    3032   3214    14353    60#1
18 TOTAL from tOCAL ffSOUFCIES            84 I  434 5   290 0    193 9   262 3   135 4   265.9    275.9    417 3    522.3   507 4        484 0   481 3   2392 3   10 80
Iss Debt Serfce                       283   111 7       8.0     4.5      33      7.2    10.3      81.3     81.3     11.0    91.0      910    910    4m30    231
ONTRIBUTIONIoDEVELOPMENT                 55.6  322.8   2840    189.4   250.0   126.2   256.6    194.7    336.0    4405   4164            3930   3703    19b63
OTHER INCOME
18 Cenral - gfants                                                                                            426 2   1075 3   64 6    1i6 9   9r6        4 4331 
19 Cncial - grants                                                                                            124 8    272    226 2       300 1   200    120S 3
20 Loans. Local (PDAN Inpres-pasr. 0oth.,)   4611    38 9
21 Loans. kttOP                                                                                                 00        00      00        00      00       0.0
22 tnpres (General)                     7065.6 10003 4  4751 3  6520.6  7020.6  6772 6  3734 3   477A 1   4676 1   4574 3  4848 7   5139 6  5448 0  24686.8    2 7%
Inpres for HIOP                                                                                            388 6    794-4   842.0    892 6   946-1   383.7
Oth.rsswadaya                                                             .0                                         60.0     70 0     800     90 0    350 0
23 TOTAL DEVELOPMENT FUNDS    7582.5 10366 1  5035.3  6710.0  72798  690008  39699   4972.8   6001.7   7216.6  70880    1974.2  6113.2  3m0.7  10.31
DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE                                                                                                                .
Inpres Expondilurs(non SlOP)        7065.6 10003.4  4751.3  6520 6  7020.6  6772 6  3734 3   4778.1   4676 1   4574.3  4848.7   6139 6  54.480  24686 8    278
Economnc                                                4 4     294       1.3                                                           S
2 Social                                                   4 0    14 3    22 0
3 General                               5350   3698    281 5    1400    220.0   113 1   2160        2060    2700    2862   303.4    3216S   340.9  S122.0  104%
4 Urbarn
5 SlOP.                                                                                                     1040 0   2267 9   1U85.3   2500.5  2350.4  10044.1   0.01
6 TOTAL DEVELOPMENT                    70m.6 10373.2  5041 2  6704.3  7283.9  6885.7  4010.3   4986.1   59861 t   712S.4  7037.4   7961.?  8130.3  :_5Z9   10.
__        __       __       _     _   .      .       .  .          ___  ......  .        .              .   __                                            -         _ 
MiAh,  UAROUWT FOfWIm                     339    1S 6       7.7     I8       7.5    232      38.3     17 9      4 6      202    106.5  *59.1   1716         4.6    71
BALANCECAIVEDFOfMDU                        1518    7. 18            75      23.2    383      17.9      46       202     108.S   1591      1716    14S.4    144   99S
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO                2.6     2.6      9.4    16.0    3.3       ZsO      6.6      0.4      20        3.      2.4       2*0     1        1.     2084
_ _*__t_S_f_.__ _w___                                                                   _  
m   bf  ulN PFl           *     .    g        tIome         8  LUPYm



INDONESIA                                         ANNEX 9
SULAWESI-IRIAN  JAYA URBAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                            Page 9 of 9
BONE
MUNICIPALITY
LINE    ITEM                IREPELITAIII        IREPELITAIIV IlREPELTAV lREPELIT
831U4    84s86    861    8a7   ails.    aas   sOo    w90                      92103   9219     041  *     19  9s-96    (
SOURCE OF FUNDS-ROUTINE                                                                                 -
2  ae.                                  170.7    188.9   292.9   108 7    160.3   188.4   244.9   266.1          A     ".2   3          401.    4324 *s7
3SrvlC Charges                          286.9    382.,   462.6   432.7   473.8   074.3  1161.3  1260.0   1474.7  1610.1  176.6   1919.0  2161 7   6921            114
4    as. nterpries,. etc                141.4    238.0   1830   449.1   3630   368.4   333.9   676.4    011.0   648.0   "7.0    726.0   771 0   3443.0    8.
S    DPoS                               3709    4*4.7   603.6   668o0   696.6   86 I  1120.3  1000.0   1260.0  1326.0   406.0   1480   1788 0    r2.0    12.
a                                      4630.5   6700.6  81643   7896.0  8869 2  10398.4  12421.1  i374S.6  16204.0  16724.4  18306.9  20236.6 22200.2  92622.1    10.
7 Short term loans                                                                                        
s TOTALROUTINE REVENUE                 6799.4   0904.S   906.6  043.4  106P2.9  12086.6  16271.6  1687l. I  174.7 20663.7 22612.1  24770.4 27413.3  114324.2    00.21
Routie Expenditure
10    fIcit. Chief execuive and staf    10060    1239.7  1117.0
11 Dlnaa.PU                               64.9      69.8    77.2
12 D -dinas ANothers                    41360    4766.7  6910.0
13     '                                 196.8    196.0   410.0
14 TOTALROUTINE EXPENDITUR    6404.7    292.2  9214.2  9183.1  10100.8  1180.2  14318.8  16201.0  187.1  1976.8 21634   23807.7 2a18.6  101D2.6    10.
ROUTINE SURPLUS                       394-7    702.0   482.4   360.3   472.1   619.3   962.6   010.1   907.6   977.    M6.7    062    1224.8   6121.7   16.
16       Dave# ncunw                       4 2                                                                                                              0.0
16  hOaLIaomLOCAL 8.SOURCWES             396 9     702.6   482.4   360.3   472,1   819.3   962.6   610.1    967.6   977.9   966.7    962.7  12246    6121.7    16.0
17  ee Debi Se9rvIo                        0 0      0.0      0.0     0.0    20.0    90.0    90.0    90.0       90.0    90.0    90.0      40.0    40.0    400.0  -16.        F-
CTRIBIIONUtoDEVELOPUENI          391.9    702.6   482.4   360.3   462.1   729.3   86r.6   80.1    807.6   187.0   878.7    9Q.7  11848.  4771.7   17.9 
THER INCOIAE
IS C al -grant.                                                                                               014.9  1071.6  1302.0   1048.6   823.9   5121.6
to Ptetal-grants                                                    11.6              9.6                     103.0   367.0   123.0    230.0   264 0    1147.0
20 Loan. ocal IF.L weoe-pasa. Omher)
21 Lou  iuuJP                                                                                                 200.0   760.0   600.0    100.0       0.0   1650 0
22  pC leneal)                           780.7   3631.8  1386.7  3663.4  2497.2  3663.4  2746.2  6623.7   6297.8  6016.0  6962.0   6309.7  6666.3  298640           3.1
p kw kx sJuP                                                                     0.0     0 0      0.0    167.4   690.8   626.2    603.    703-7   3141.9
Chh luWadays                                                                  0.0      0.0     0.0      32.0    33.0    36.0      39.0    41.0    181.0
23  OTALDEVELOPMENT FUNDS    111U.0   4234.4  1819.1  4036.6  2949.3  4402.3  3007.8  004J.   7S60   9018.    678110   93136   *706.7  46877.0    9.9
EVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE
24 knrExpendhwaenon SIJROP               788.7   3631.6  1313.3  3603.4  2497.2  3663.4  2745.2  6623.7  6297.8  6016.6  6962.6   6309.7  66s  3  29604.0           3 9%
26 Economic                               26.8     77.9   126.4
26 SocIa                                  46.1     66.3    61.6
27 General                               371.3    264.0   304.1   605.0   376.2   694.8   816.1   617.8    679.0   747.0   801.0    610.0   620.0   3868t2          6.8
26 Urban
29 RUJ)P                                                                                                     1901.9  2946.6  2679.6   22198  2010.3  11957 1
30  OTAL DEVELOPMENT                    1229.9   3929.0   1606.4  4268.4  2673.4  436 2  3681.3  6141.6   7679.3  9308.7  9633.2   0.6    96104  46679.3           9
3EROUGNTFORU1ARD              110.i     66.6   3714    376.1    142.2   218.1   262.2   308.7    211.0   294.4   301.6    247.4   221.6    2110    -64
CAAIED FOVAH                 66.6    371.4   376.1   142 2   218 6     262 2    308.7   211.0    294.4   301.6   247.4    2216   408 7    408.7   14 1
STSERVICECOEAATIO                    0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0    23.6      9A    10.8       6.8     11.0    10.9    10.8      24 1    30.61    128    35 
spuail "lftx A" affwofy taAmpIAMbuw taktnnrepd "64woaua by luoTeam,



- 136 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 38
INDONESIA
SULMWESI-IRIAN JATA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT PART I: SULAWESI
1.0 INTRODUCTION
This Environmental Assessment of the Sulawesi component of SIJUDP
was carried out by the environmental specialist attached to the
project  appraisal  mission  completed  in  October  1990.    The
assessment has considered each of the nine cities in the project
and has concentrated on those sub-projects which raised significant
environmental issues.
In general terms, the environmental impacts of the project are
positive as all of the proposals involve a significant upgrading in
the physical infrastructure of the existing urban environment and
in some cases also involve significant upgrading and rehabilitation
of the municipal water supply. Due to the small size of many of
the cities (excluding Ujung Padang and Manado) the existing
environment of the downtown areas is characterized by reasonable
levels of amenity and do not experience the same level of existing
environmental problems which are readily apparent in the bigger
cities of Ujung Pandang and Manado or those in the provinces of
Java.
After a brief description of the generic environmental problems
encountered during appraisal the larger cities (i.e. Ujung Pandang,
Manado, Palu and Kendari) are assessed using IB.R.D. OD 4 (Oct,
1989) Palopo was assessed in more detail due to a potential
environmental concerning conflicts over water resources. Pare Pare
was not addressed in detail due to the minor nature of the new
project proposals. The smaller cities have been grouped together
as similar issues reoccur.
2.0 GENERIC ISSUES
It can be seen in the Figure 1, there are considerable differences
in the population of many of the cities.  For example, compare
Ujung Pandang with a population of 750,000 and high growth rate to
that of Gorontalo, a small provincial city and a stable rate of
growth. The existing environment of these cities reflect these
population  differences.    Consequently,  the  priority  of  the
environment assessment and field inspection was to concentrate on
the larger cities where the need for an inteorated approach to
urban development is most apparent. A brief inspection was carried
out in the small cities of Bitung and Gorontalo where a
significantly higher level of service in urban infrastructure was
observed.
In general terms the most common environmental problem in all of
the cities was the need for change in the management practices



- 137 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 38
presently utilized in the solid waste sector.   This issue is
closely related to the second most common existing environmental
problem - the maintenance of existing Municipal drainage systems.
A substantial part of the latter problem is due to the present
practice of placing solid waste into the drainage system.



Annex  10
Page 3 of 38
SULAWESI - Fig 1
1990 Population Estimate (thousands)
800 -          --
600 
400
200
U.P.  Manado  Palu Pare PareKendari Palopo Gorontalo Bitung  Bone
City
_  Series 1



- 139 -
Annox 10
Page 4 of 38
Therefore, addressing the problems associated with solid waste
collection will have a substantial impact on those in the drainage
sector.
Also in the drainage subsector, there is a continuing problem in a
number of cities caused by increases in the sediment load, which
are a result of poor land management practices in the rural-urban
fringe. This problem requires a regional planning approach and
increasing coordination between provincial and local governments
responsible for management of land and water resources.
There are also a number of site-specific issues which have been
addressed in the assessment of each of the individual cities. Each
of these cities is now discussed using the format established for
assessment   by  the   IBRD  Operational   Directive  concerning
Environmental Appraisal O.D. 4 October 1989.
3.0 KANADO
3.1 Project Description
Drainage
*    Major cleaning operation of the drains especially the closed
ones in the central business district. This is proposed in
the first year.
*    Proposals for study and improvement by Pengairan Tk I for the
main rivers also to be implemented in year one and following
years. Pengairan Tk I estimates the implementation of works
for river improvement in Manado town as Rp. 1.7 billion.
*    Improvement of main and secondary drains will be an ongoing
activity throughout all project years. This includes culverts
(box and pipe) as well.
*    New drains mainly tertiary type drains will be built as
suggested by local officials to improve storm water discharge
in adjacent areas.
Roads
Rehabilitation of 60% of local roads and coordinated investments
for future development of an outer ring road. This subproject is
not subject to IBRD environmental requirements as there is only
minor involvement in the subproject.
Solid Waste
The proposal is to design and construct a new T.P.A. (sanitary land
fill) and provide adequate 0 & M funding over the life of the loan.
The loan provides for the purchase of new equipment including
Trucks, Gerobaks and workshop tools.



- 140 -
Annex 10
Page 5 of 38
Sanitation
a.   The provision of clean-out services for septic tanks and the
promotion of septic tank construction through awareness and
promotion campaigns.
b.   Construction  of  a sewerage pilot  scheme and promotional
campaigns.
Water Supply - physical improvement projects include:
a.   Extensive  rehabilitation  of  water  treatment  works  and
installations.
b.   Development of a new groundwater source at Pinaleng, a new
production well at Paniki, and a 2000 m reservoir at Paal
Dua.
3.2 Baseline conditions
Kotamadya Manado lies on the coast at the North Eastern part of the
Province of North Sulawesi (Sulawesi Utara).  The urban area of
Manado lays on the Eastern shore of Manado Bay. To the North is a
hilly coastal plain; East and South are hills and mountainous areas
separated by two main valleys, South East of the urban area: Manado
- Tondano river valley and Tikala - Sawanga river valley.   The
island group of Manado Tua, Bunaken and Siladen North East of the
urban area form part of the Kotamadya.
Manado the capital city of the Province of North Sulawesi, is the
largest city of the province.   It is the main commercial and
government centre. The kotamadya consists of 67 kelurahans divided
over five kecamatan.  In 1995 the total Kotamadya population is
forecasted to be 308,555 inhabitants of which 153,039 inhabitants
will live in the urban area.
The terrain of the Manado urban area is generally hilly; land is
sloping towards the sea and the main rivers. Slopes are reaching
in many kelurahan 40 percent and the maximum elevation in the city
is about 120 m. The city is drained by the main regional rivers;
the Manado Tondano River and the Tikala - Sawanga River, and by
several local rivers.
A constraint on future development of Mtanado is the hilly
topography, particularly the land to the East and South. Future
development will therefore be mainly towards the lowlands in the
North, towards the North East influenced by the access to the
airport and the Bitung Seaport and towards the lowlands in the
South.    These  growth    trends  have  been  recognized  by  the
government, leading to the decision in 1989 to enlarge the



- 141 -
Annex 10
Page 6 of 38
administrative area of Manado in order to   improve control un
development.
A master plan for the former administrative area was prepared in
1984/85, a zoning plan in 1986.  A master plan for the extended
administrative area is under preparation in 1990. Bappeda Tk I and
Team Teknis working on the Urban Infrastructure Inl%stment
Programme   and  the  Master  Plan  exchanged  data   ^    the
synchronization of both proposals.
The largest proportion of land in the urban area is residential.
The original harbour at the main river mounth is now suitable for
small fishing craft only; the bulk of commercial shipping is
relocated to the harbour of Bitung. An important commercial area
is located in the centre of town South of the old harbour.  At
present commercial development extends towards the North East along
the road leading to the Airport in the North East and Bitung
Seaport.  The remainder of the administrative area is presently
covered with agricultural estates and some low density housing.
The master plan strategy is to continue the expansion of Manado as
the centre for regional development. This *ncludes improving its
functions as the centre of government, commerce, education, culture
and tourism activities to serve North Sulawesi.   The land use
projected for 2005 as compared to the land use in 1983 is presented
below.   The  large portion of open  land reflects  an already
anticipated expansion of the administrative area.   The actual
expansion of 1988 was 25% larger. Existing industry is based on
agricultural - local timber processing and a growir' tourism
industry.
Land Use Area (ha)
Land Use                  1983            2005
Housing                             1,404           2,726
Commercial/trading                      39             75
Governments                             74            164
Industries/Warehouses                  20             304
Social Facilities                      165            305
Sport Recreation                        15             47
Roads/Terminals                       252             257
Open Spaces                            700          8,992
Total                   2,369          12,870
Source: Master Plan for Manado, 1984
3.3 Environmental Impacts



- 142 -
Annex 10
Page 7 of 38
Drainage
The most significant environmental impacts identified have been the
potential for the uncontrolled use of drainage spoil from the
cleaning and rehabilitation of drains and the potential for
displacement of resident(s) (probably of non-legal status)
alongside major drains.
In Manado, the potential for toxic or hazardous waste is considered
to be low due to the nature of industry in the town, (i.e. mainly
agricultural processing). However, the common practice of using
drains for the placement of solid waste constitutes a potential for
the build-up of pathogens within the layers of mixed sediment and
solid waste.
As in the larger population centers in the cities of Java and in
Ujung Pandang there is an observed tendency for non-legal residents
(squatters) to set up temporary housing on the area reserved for
access to major drains. For rehabilitation and cleaning of drains
it will be necessary to clear squatter housing.   The extent to
which this will be necessary is minor but will constitute a social
impact of the proposal.
Roads
There is no significant impact anticipated.
Solid Waste
The existing disposal site in Manado is presently operating on an
uncontrolled basis. This site is operating at the base of a steep
valley which is drained by a small creek. Run off and leachate is
presently flowing to this stream which is being used downstream for
fish ponds and bathing by local village people.
The potential for surface water pollution is high and the potential
for affecting the health of the downstream villages is also
considered a serious problem.
Water Supply
As the majority of the works to be carried out are extensive
rehabilitAtion of the system only positive environmental impacts
are anticipated. However, the need for a new production well at
Paniki has been identified due to pollution of the existing
borehole.   It is also indicated that the river water near this
source is also polluted. Sources of contamination of this supply
should be identified and mitigating measures implemented. There is
also some potential for localized impacts (mainly soil erosion due



- 143 -
Annex 10
Page 8 of 38
to vegetation removal)  for the access road to the new 2000 m3
reservoir at Paal Dua.
3.4 Alternatives
Drainace
There are no feasible alternatives.
Solid Waste
Part of the first year program will include an analysis of three
possible sites for the new land fill area. No other approach to
solid waste disposal is considered feasible.
Sanitation
Apart from improving the disposal of sludges from septic tankq,
there is also a feasibility study to investigate a pilot sewerage
scheme is included in the project.
Water SuDply
A feasible alternative to the existing PDAM system would be on-site
collection using household tanks. Costs and benefits of this
approach have been evaluated as part of the program.
3.5 Mitigation Plan
Drainage
The responsible GOI agency (Cipta Karya) carried out a preliminary
environmental assessment report (P.I.L.) in order to identify the
poter'ial for uncontrolled use of contaminated spoil and
involuntary resettlement. Based on the report, there is no need
for resettlement.
Solid Waste & Sanitation
Satisfactory site selection and management planning for now land-
fill and sludge facility would be made part of the project
imp13mentation  agreement.    Satisfactory performance  would be
measured by indicators set out as attachment to the agreement.
To check compliance an environmental review will be carried out
annually as part of project supervision.
Sanitation
-    Provision of suitable facility to deal with anticipated B.O.D.
loadings as discussed in the paper on "the disposal of Septic
Tank Sludge" prepared by GOI consultant.



- 144 -
Annex 10
Page 9 of 38
Provision of satisfactory completion of monitoring reports to
be set out in Monitoring Plan (RKL) & Management Plan (RPL)
required   under   Indonesian   Environmental   Regulations.
Compliance with the plan should be checked during project
supervision.
Water SupplY
-    Provision of satisfactory RKL and RPL to demonstrate that site
specific aspects of construction of access road to new
reservoir and water quality monitoring of new production well
at Paniki. Compliance with '.he plans would be checked during
project supervision.
4.0  PALU
4.1 Project Description
Drainage
After analyzing the existing conditions and problems and setting
priorities and financial capabilities, the following programmes are
proposed for the drainage sector for the coming five year of
1991/92 - 1995/96.
-    the dredging/cleaning, lining and rehabilitation (for parts
which are damaged) of the primary drains (I) at Kelurahan
Baru.
-    the dredging/cleaning and lining of secondary drains (II) at
Kelurahan Baru.
-    the demolition/replacement of pipes in J1. Iman Bonjol.
-    the construction of new secondary drains in Kelurahan Lerei,
Kelurahan Kamonji and Kelurahan Bayaoge.
-    the construction of new   tertiary drains and culverts in
places which are considered necessary.
-    the rehabilitation of damaged tertiary drains.
Urban Roads
The urban road system is in relatively good condition compared to
both U.J. ai.d Manado. There are no major investment proposals for
either arterial or collector roads. There are some new roads
proposed but these are local roads. However, the amount of
investment listed for new roads constitutes almost 70% of
expenditure and 50% of the proposed 0 & M budget.



- 145 -
Annex 10
Page 10 of 38
Solid Waste
The main proposal relates to rationalisation of the existing
disposal area which is an uncontrolled landfill of over 23 ha.
Waste is presently dumped alaong the network of roads which criss-
cross the site.
There are also small equipment purchases planned.
Sanitation
Purchase of a vacuum truck for septic tank pump out and the
implementation of a credit self-help scheme for installation of
septic tanks combines with soak pits. Also included would be the
acquisition of 3000m of land for disposal of sludge from septic
tanks.
4.2 Baseline Conditions
Palu at present still has the status of a Kota Administratif or
Kotip, under the Kabupaten Donggala as from 1978. At the same time
it functions as the capital seat of the government of level I,
Province of Central Sulawesi and Kabupaten Donggala. A conversion
to full Kotamadya status is not yet planned. Many of the future
Kotamadya tasks are being implemented by an active Kotip Palu.
Most of the municipal services are still under the responsibility
of Kabupaten Donggala.
Kotip Palu is located at the western central part of the province
of Central Sulawesi (Sulawesi Tengah).   The urban area of Palu
borders the coast of the Donggala bay; to the east is the central
mountain range of the Central Sulawesi area.  The town is still
part of the vast rional Local government of Kabupaten Donggala.
Palu is the largest town in the province of Central Sulawesi. Its
port (located outside the urban area) is the principal port for the
West part of the province. The Kotip consists of two Kecamatans,
Palu Barat and Timur and covers 10,238 ha total of which 1,431 ha
urban.   In 1995 the total Kotip population is expected to be
194,000 inhabitants of which 127,000 inhabitants will live in the
urbanized areas.
The terrain of the Palu urban area is generally hilly. The terrain
slopes toward the bay and Palu river which crosses the town to the
north and ends in the bay. Slopes in the inner urbanized area vary
between 2 and 8 percent, while those in the outer urbanized area
vary between 2 and 15 percent.   The highest elevation in the
urbanized area is about 80 meter above mean sea level. The town is
drained by two rivers and their contributories, Palu river and
Pondo river.
The largest proportion of land in the urban area is residential.
The remainder of the administrative area consists of agricultural



- 146 -
Annex 10
Page 11 of 38
lands, estates and partly deforested mountainous land. Little or
no industrial development takes place. The administrative function
of the town is its main income source (civil service and military,
53%).
A town master plan was developed in 1978 and in 1986 a further
development of a zoning plan took place by PUOD/Ministry of Home
Affairs.
The projected land use 2004 for the administrative area as compared
to 1983 is shown below:
Area ha
Land Use type                1983            2004
Housing                             1,520           5,432
Commercial/trading                     112            253
Governments                           304             324
Industry/Warehouses                   122             760
Social Facilities                     375             436
Agriculture/Estate                  6,904           2,038
Others                                801             902
Totals                 10,138          10,138
Source:   Palu master plan, 1978
Drainage outline plan, 1984
Development is taking place in the direction of Kelurahan Tondo
North East, where a new university complex has been established and
housing estates by government and others are developed. However,
these are still located separate from the town on the west side of
town and act as constraint on development. South East the airport
is present and restrains housing development in that direction.
The urban master plan emphasizes the development of the commercial
area in the town center and the housing areas towards the north-
east.   The land use control agency Suku Dinas Tata Kota is in
control and recommendations from the master plan are generally
followed.
In fill development rather than expansion has been preferred in
order to make more efficient use of available infrastructure.
Projected growth rates of the Kotip Palu appear unrealistic since
the growth rate for the period 1971 - 1980 was 0.4% per year. Use
of a more realistic growth rate of 1% leads to a projected
population in 1995 of 101.400 which is substantially below the
reported figure of 127.600 in the preparation report.
4.3 Environmental Impacts



- 147 -
Annex 10
Page 12 of 38
Drainale
Due to the type of industry in Palu, the potential for adverse
impacts from the rehabilitation of the drainage system is not
considered significant. There are minor purchases of land required
for the proposals but these do not require displacement of
residents.
Roads
The present road system is operating at a high level of service
with virtually no traffic problems and a well designed network of
arterial roads. No significant negative effects of the proposal
are anticipated.
Solid Waste
Palu has an existing landfill site of some 23 ha which is presently
operating in an uncontrolled fashion. Waste is being deposited in
a random fashion along an equally random system of roads & trucks
that criss-cross the site. Consequently the environmental impact
of the proposal will be positive as the site will be managed as a
sanitary landfill. It is recommended that the site for operation
of the new landfill will be located as far as possible from the
town arboretum which is being developed adjacent to the site (see
Photos 1 & 2).
Sanitation
It is anticipated that the proposed sludge disposal facility will
also be located within the existing 23 ha solid waste land;ill
area. With careful site selection of this facility (only 3000m is
required) environmental controls can be integrated with those for
the operation of the sanitary landfill.
4.4 Mitigations
Operation of the sanitary landfill and sludge disposal facility
will require compliance with the RKL, RPL management and monitoring
plans prepared under the requirements of Indonesian legislation.
Satisfactory performance of environmental objectives for operation
of these facilities is part of the project implementation agreement
between three levels of government.   Adequate supervision of
performance is considered to be a priority task for IBRD follow-up.
5.0 UJUNG PANDANG
5.1 Project Description
The program that is subject to environmental requirements includess



- 148 -
Annex 10
Page 13 of 38
Drainage    -  completion of urban drainage in the  "old" town
(1,000 ha)
-  the establishment of sound O&M services
-  all flood control works under the Lower Jeneberang
Scheme
-  completion of Urban drainage in two areas in the
"old" town (400 ha)
-  all  studies  and  works,  related  to  secondary
drainage in the new urban development area (1,000
ha)
Roads       -  implementation  of  a  small  part  of  the  road
rehabilitation works, which were identified during
the RCUTP Study (1990)
-  rehabilitation works on local roads
-  works on the artery road system, as identified by
JICA (1988) and already committed at present, i.e.
construction of the inner ring road
Solid waste -  maintaining the stock of rolling equipment (trucks)
at its present level and providing additional
equipment, with the aim to expand the collection
service  from  the  present  46%  to  67%  of  the
population in 1995
-  the establishment of a solid waste discharge site
Sanitation  -  the execution of a low-cost sanitation program
-  the expansion of septic tank clean-out services
KIP         -  the execution of Kampung Improvement Programs over
a total area of 250 ha
5.2 Baseline Conditions
Kotamadya Ujung Pandang is located in the South West of the
province of South Sulawesi (Sulawesi Selatan). The urban area of
Ujung Pandang lays on the Eastern shore of Strait Makassar. The
entire city is built in the coastal plain; the mountain range of
South Sulawesi starts ablut ten kilometres East of the city's
administrative boundary. Several tiny islands off shore form part
of the kotamadya.
Ujung Pandang is the capital of the Province of South Sulawesi. It
i_ the largest city and the main commercial and government centre
of East Indonesia. Ujung Pandang is to serve as its main gateway



ANNEX 10
- 149 -                                    Page 14 of
Photo 1
Existing Disposal Area (Palu) looking into the 23ha site.
Random Dumping and Burning along all tracks
Existing Disposal Area (Palu) looking towards the Bay area & city.
Note Arboretum on immnediate right.



- 150 -
Annex 10
Page 15 of 38
and major growth centre for the accelerated development of Eastern
Indonesia.
The kotamadya consists of 62 kelurahan divided over eleven
kecamatan.  In  1955,  the  total  kotamadya  will  have  973,000
inhabitants of which 849,500 will live in the urban area.
The terrain of the Ujung Pandang urban area is generally flat. The
old part of the city (old Makassar) is built on a sandy ridge at 2
to 3m above mean sea level. Two regional rivers are flowing north
and south of the old town into the sea: the Tallo and the
Jeneberang river. Other local rivers are the Sinrijala and the
Sinassara. The alluvial plains around the old city are low.
Two rivers play a dominant role in the hydrology of the Kotamadya
Ujung Pandang; the Jeneberang and the Tallo rivers.
The Jeneberang drains a catchment area of approximately 730km2
which extends into the mountains of this couthern part of the
province. The river borders the south of the Kotamadya. At high
river flows, water from the river used to spill over the north bank
into the watershed of the Tallo river, inundating flood plains of
tributaries of the Tallo (i.e. of the Pampang river).
The Tallo river 2itself has a smaller catchment area than the
Jeneberang (420km ), which borders the latter to the north. In its
lower regions, the Tallo river has tidal characters; the tide
enters deep into the forementioned flood plain. The combination of
overflows from the Jeneberang, high rainfalls, low elevation,
flatness and proximity to the sea, makes the area extremely
sensitive to flooding.
The old town of Ujung Pandang is located west of the flood plains
of the Tallo river, on a slightly elevated mount. Natural drainage
conditions on this mount are in principle good: water can drain of
to all sides.
An urban drainage system has gradually been development with the
growth of the town over the past centuries. The most recent
improvements are being realised under the so-called URBAN V DRIP
(Drainage Improvement Program).
Urban drainage in the eastern parts of the Kotamadya, especially in
areas located in the flood plain of the Tallo c.q. Pampang rivers,
is bad. Urban development is growing fast here; many housing esates
and government offices have been, and still are being, built in the
area. Tertiary drainage is being provided with most of these
developments, but as long as primary and secondary drainage is not
taken care of, regular flood problems will continue to exist.



- 151 -
Annex 10
Page 16 of 38
Land Use and Urban Development, Ujung Pandang
The largest proportion of land in the urban area is residential.
Wet-lands, ponds and agriculture form the main land use in the
remainder of the administrative area. The harbor complex is located
in the north-western part of the urban area; it is the largest
harbor of Sulawesi serving both foreign and Indonesian vessels.
Hasanuddin Airport, which provides links with the main cities of
Indonesia, is located north east of the administrative area. It is
connected to the city by the old Maros road and the new toll-bridge
road. The large Hasanuddin University complex is located in the
eastern part of the administrative area. Industrial areas exist,
and are planned to be further developed, in the north east.
A master plan was prepared in 1984/1985 for a planning period up to
2004. (For the purpose of the 1988 highway study the master plan
was extended over a larger region for a period up to 2009). Zoning
plans and detailed plans are being prepared.
Population, Densities, Urban Area
Zrowth rates used previously were based on an average of
registration data, master plan rate, and NUDS rate. The result was
considered too high. Available census data for 1971 and 1980
present a high population growth (5.59%) reflecting the 1971
expansion of the urban area. Next to the 1980 census data,
registration data were available for the Kotamadya for 1983 through
1986 and 1988. For projections, growth in recent years was averaged
with growth over the total period, leading to 2.16% growth for the
Kotamadya.
Through previous studies detailed data of 1986 were available for
the 62 kelurahan that form Ujung Pandang. These survey data per
kelurahan covered population size and areas for both built-up and
rural ares. The total population in 1986 was 803,294 inhabitants,
of which 674,845 were living in the urban area. The urban area is
defined here as the area with densities of over 50 inhabitants per
hectare.
The growth rate of 2.16% was applied to the total population of
Ujung Panda-e to make projections for 1990 and 1995. A gravity
model was used under previous studies for the distribution of
population growth over the kelurahans. It weighs for relative
growth and physical development per kelurahan the location,
existing infrastructure and physical conditions against existing
densities. Through the gravity model the total population growth
was distributed over the 62 kelurahan for the years 1990 and 1995.
The total population of the Ujung Pandang at the end of 1990 is
875,000 people, of which 762,300 will live in the urban area. The
total population at the end of 1995 is projected to be 973,700, of
which 853,700 will live in the urban area. During the planning



- 152 -                     Annez 10
Page 17 of 38
period the average population density in the urban area is expected
to grow from 170 to 185 people per hectare.
5.3 Environaental Impact
Drainace
As the proposals require the cleaning and maintenance of primary
drains in Ujung Pandang it is anticipated that there is potential
for  the  need  to  selectively  handle  drainage  spoil.    Field
inspection of industry in Ujung Pandang showed significant metal
processing, engineering, paper production, timber and agricultural
processing. Sampling of drainage spoil would be advisable in order
to establish the risk of the presence of toxic and/or harzardous
material.
There was also evidence from field inspection that there is
potential for significant displacement of legal residents to gain
access to major drains. The potential for significant displacement
is considered to be moderate.   A P.I.L.  study is required to
address the above potential environmental effects (see Photo 3).
Roads
One component of the road proposals involves the extension of a
north-south arterial connection between the airport toll-bridge and
the outer Southern suburbs of t;e city. This proposal will involve
the need to displace approximately 300 lower middle and middle
class households which are presently located within the proposed
right of way.   Alternative corridors would be possible but the
density of housing in this area will mean that some displacement is
also necessary.   The benefits of this connection are considerable
as an alternative North-South route is considered a high priority
to complete a basic arterial network (see Photo 4).
Solid Waste
An existing landfill is presently located some 17kms to the
immediate west of the main town and is operated with poor
management practices. As the proposal will lead to the development
of a properly managed sanitary landfill the effect of the proposal
will have a significant positive impact on the environment in the
security of the landfill.
Sanitation
A sludge disposal facility has been recently completed and been in
operation since Sept. 1990.  Inspection of this facility showed
that it was being operated with poor management practice.   The
monitoring of effluent discharge to the nearby river was limited to
only one parameter (i.e. pH).   Improvemants to the access road
which is presently in poor condition is part of the project
proposal. This improvement will considerably increase the level of
service of the facility and will have substantial positive impacts
on the environment as the expansion in the use of septic task
systems Present round trip travelling time is approximately 3 hours
per each truck.



- 153 -
Annex 10
Page 18 of 38
There is heavy dependence on the use of on-site sanitation for the
majority of households in Utjung Pandang.
Also there is heavy reliance on the use of shallow groundwater
wells for water supply. From an environmental and public health
perspective this situation is not satisfactory especially in light
of projected growth rates.   Consequently,  improvements in the
efficiency of the sludge disposal facility has the potential for
significant improvement and protection of ground water resources.
5.4 Mitigation
Drainage
Sampling of drainage spoil was carried out as part of the
preparation of the P.I.L. document. It is anticipated that this
material   will   require   selective   handling   during   drain
rehabilitation. More detailed A.N.D.A.L. study is required before
implementation.
Roads
A resettlement plan according to the IBRD O.D. (June 1990) was
submitted before loan negotiation. The plan offers several options
for the 300 households to be resettled: (a) housing in a
government-sponsored new housing development; (b) provision of
plots fully serviced with infrastructure for housing; (c) cash
compensation. In addition the plan offers assistance for moving up
cost of living support during the transition period and assistance
to  find  equal  standard  employment,  if  necessary.    During
negotiations, it was agreed that the plan will include a budget
indicating the expected cost of resettlement and the financing
sources.
Solid Waste
A set of performance indicators to measure satisfactory progress of
environmental objectives for operation of the new sanitary land
fill has been included in the project   preparation agreement.
These indicators have been included in order to assess progress of
local government operation of the landfill during supervision of
the loan.
Sanitation
Performance indicators have been included in order to assess the
satisfactory progress on environmental objectives during project
supervision.   A study of other sanitation options  (including
sewerage) for Ujung Pandang has been dropped from the project. It
is recommended that an alternative funding source be identified as
soon as possible in order to minimize any further degradation of
groundwater resources in Ujung Fandang.



- 154 -                                    ANNEX 10
Fage 19 of "r
Photo 3 '
Ujung Pandang                         -               -      *
Panning for Gold                       -      _
from Drainage Sediments                   - _     2 ,
- ~ ~ ~       _        -  aS
F.
a~~~~~~~~~
Photo 4
Ujung Pandang- Alignment of rew arterial road with potential for
displacement of residents



- 155 -
Annex 10
Page 20 of 38
26.0        KENDARI
6.1 Project Decription
The elements of the program subject to IBRD environmental
requirements are:
Drainage
As the town of Kendari faces serious flood problems, a town wide
drainage study is required, which will result in recommendations
for expensive capital works. The drainage and flood control plans
need to be complemented with land use plans, both for the town and
the surrounding areas.
Maintenance and regular cleaning of the existing drainage system
will be upgraded in importance. It is anticipated that the
construction works will total Rp. 1,315m.
In Unaaha, the neighbouring smaller centre, no large investments
are needed. Only a drainage outline plan will be required.
Roads
No investments on new arterial roads are necessary during the
coming 5 years. There will be a program of relabilitating the other
roads in the town. A collector road will be widened and improved as
will local roads.
Solid Waste
Solid waste collection services will be expanded drastically during
the coming five years. Equipment will be purchased. An
environmentally acceptable alternative for the present solid waste
discharge site is to be located.
A small solid waste management program for Unaaha has been included
in the urban investment plan: the procurement of a truck and the
development of an acceptable final disposal site.
Sanitation
The town pians to set up a pilot credit scheme for the construction
of 450 on-site sanitary latrines. The scheme is aimed at the middle
income classes of the town's citizens.
6.2 Baseline Conditions
Kendari
Kendari at present has the status of a Kota administratip. At the
same time it functions as the center of this south-east part of the



- 156 -
Annex 10
Page 21 of 38
vast island of Sulawesi, ebing the largest town on this side of the
island and the cpaital of the South-East Sulawesi province.
Kota admin'stratip Kendari is located at the South-East part of the
province of South-East Sulawesi. The urban area of Kendari borders
the coast by the bay of Kendari, horseshoe shaped; to the West and
North is the central mountain range of the South-East Sulawesi
area. The south side is more flat and swampy.
Unaaha
Unaaha is the capital of the Kabupaten Kendari. Because small
projects in the capital town of Kabupaten Kendari, Unaaha, are
included in this report as well, a smali description is given about
the geographical facts of this town.
Unaaha is located in the hinterland of Kendari town, some 70km west
of it, on the left bank of the Kanaweha river, where the main road
from Kendari to Kolaka crosses this reiver. The administrative area
comprises two centers; the old market town of Wawotobim and, at a
distance of 8km, the new kabupaten capital of Unaaha. Between these
two centers the area has a rural character. Inhabitants total
approximately 8,000 in about 750 ha of planned urban area, while in
total there are 32,000 inhabitants in about 4,230 ha total.
Kendari is the largest town of the province of South-East Sulawesi.
Its port (located just in the urban area at the most north-eastern
end) is the principal port. The kota administratip consists of
three Kecamatans, Mandongan, Kendari and Poasia and covers 17,673
ha, of which 916 ha is urban. In 1995 the total population is
expected to be 166,590 inhabitants of which 84,233 inhabitants will
live in the planned urban areas.
The terrain of the Kendari urban area is hilly except for the
western part adjacent to the bay, which is generally flat. The
northern part has steep slopes varying between 16 and 26% while the
outlying area of the western part has slopes varying between 9 and
16%. The highest elevation in the urbanized area is about 50 metres
above sea level. The town is drained by one regional river (Lepo)
and its tributaries, three local rivers and several creeks, all of
which flow into the Kendari bay.
Land use and Urban development Kendari
The largest proportion of land in the administrative area is
agriculturally used. The remainder of the administrative area
consists of residential land. Little industrial development takes
place and provides employment for only a minor part of the
workforce (less than 0.2%). Agriculture (53%), government,
transport and commerce services (22%) form the main source of
income. Employment reached 46% in 1984.



- 157 -
Annex 10
Page 22 of 38
A town master plan and zoning plan were developed for Kendari town
in 1985 by PUOD/Ministry of Home Affairs and for Unaaha by BPPT of
the ministry of Science and Technology. The projected land use 2004
for the administrative area as compared to 1983 is shown below:
Land Use Area (ha)
Land Use                  1983            2004
Housing                             1,409           2,890
Commercial/trading                     110            329
Government                            274             310
Industries/warehouses                  56              69
Social Fac;.lities                    286             624
Agricultural/Estate                14,837          12,669
Others                                789             866
Total                  17,760          17,760
Source: Master Plan for Kendari, 1984
Actual development takes place in the west part of the town
Kecamatan Mandonga, Kelurahan Mandonga and Wua Wua, development
Zone  II.  Here  government  functions  prevail  while  housing
development is initiated even more to the south (flat, swamp area)
and Kecamatan Kendari, development Zone I, where the harbor
(Kelurahan Kendai) and the older town are located.
Constraints are formed by the hills on the north and east side of
town, while swamps are located at the south-east part in the Lepo
catchment.
6.3 E!lvironaental Impact
Drainage
The focus of this subproject will concentrate on rehabilitation and
cleaning of the centre Municipal drainage system. In Kendari the
steeply sloping land in close proximity has been intensively
cleared for agricultural purposes. These practices have led to a
high rate of sedimentation in the drainage system. As well, there
is a substantial component of solid waste being placed in these
drains. Consequently, the impact of the project will be beneficial.
The integrated approach addresses both the physical environmental
issue of sedimentation with construction of sand detention traps on
the fringes of the Municipal drainage system and on the existing
practice of dumping Municipal solid waste into the drainage system.



- 158 -
Annez 10
Page 23 of 38
Roads
The main focus of che loan program is on rehabilitation of the
ex .sting system so the significant environment problems are
anticipated.
Water SupplY
The principal activity will be rehabilitation of the existing
system to secure an all-day abstraction of raw water and to upgrade
the existing treatment works. No significant environmental problems
are anticipated as no new supply capacity is required until at
least the year 2000.
Solid Waste
The present location of the Municipal landfill site is a
significant environmental problem. Not only are current management
practices less than satisfactory the location is exposed and
causing air quality and odour problems for the surrounding
population. Relocation of this landfill site is considered to be a
priority for improvement of the amenity. This issue has been
addressed in the P.I.L. document prepared for the subproject and
additional A.N.D.A.L. studies will be carried out as part of
project implementation.
Sanitation
This subproject will significantly improve sanitation conditijns of
the local residents which to date have relied on on-site
sanitation. Either pit latrines and septic tanks have been utilised
in close proximity to groundwater wells. The scheme will lead to
450 sanitary latrines and the provision of pumpout facilities. The
location of the sludge facility will require a siting study as part
of the program. A P.I.L. for this subproject is not required until
the year before implementation (i.e. 1992-93).
6.4 Mitigation
For bot'- solid waste and sanitatijn projects supervision of the
implementation of the construction of a suitable sanitary landfill
and de-sludging facility is considered critical for satisfying
environmental objectives. The measurement of satisfactory progress
on meeting objectives has been specified in the project
implementation agreement between the levels of government.
7. 0 KABUPATEN LUWU (PALC4 -'



- 159 -
Annex 10
Page 24 of 38
7.1 Project rescription
Drainaae
The majority of the works are improvement and rehabilitation of the
existing system. Some new construction is proposed and involves the
strengthening and widening of the Amassangan River. Also allowed
for in the program is the creation of an agency which would carry
out regular maintenance services.
Roads
The main thrust of this prograi is rehabilitation of the existing
system. The reconstruction of two bridges is part of the proposal.
Solid Waste
This subproject involves the expansion of collection services and
the acquisition and preparation of an environmentally acceptable
final disposal site.
Sanitation
This subproject involves the provision of a credit scheme for low
cost sanitary latrines and the provision of pump out services for
existing septic tanks. Public toilets will also be increased in
poorer areas.
Water SupplY
The most controversial subproject for Palapj from an environmental
perspective is the expansion of the drinking water supply.
A new river intake would be built, the treatment plant enlarged and
the distribution system is to be expanded. From a present
population being served of 58,000 there will be an increase to
81,000 or 96% of the projected population.
7.Z: Baseline Conditions
Palopo at present has the status of a Kota Administratip. At the
same time it functions as the center of this North-East part of the
vast Province of South Sulawesi, being the largest town on this
side of the province.
The location of Palopo is indicated on Map 0.1. The urban area of
Palopo borders the coast of the Bone Bay, to the west is the
central mountain range of the South Sulawesi area. The
administrative area is depicted on map 0.2.



- 160 -
Annex 10
Page 25 of 38
The scope of the IUIDP project preparation for Kota Administratip
Palopo covers proposals for the urban area of Palopo for the
development of 7 subsectors of infrastructure, including water
supply.
Palopo is the largest town in this part of the province of South
Sulawesi. Its port (located just in the urban area at the most
eastern end) is the principal port for the Central part of the
province. The kota administratip consists of two Kecamatans, Wara
and Wara Utara and covers 23,324 ha total of which 687 ha urban. In
1995 the total popultaion is expected to be 105,958 of which 69,770
inhabitants will live in the urbanized areas.
The terrain of the Palopo urban area is generally flat. The terrain
slopes moderately (<8%) towards he Bone Bay. Two rivers cross the
town at the north and south side and discharge in to the Bone Bay.
Slopes in the inner urbanized area vary between 2 and 8 percent,
while those in the outer urbanized area vary between 2 and 15
percent. The highest elevation in the urbanized area is about 20
meters above mean sea level (MSL). The town is drained by two
rivers and their contributories, Amassangan and Boting river.
Map 0.3 represents the (1986) land use in Palopo. The largest
proportion of land in the administrative area is used for
agriculture. The remainder consists of residential land. Little
industrial development takes place and provides employment for only
a minor part of the work force (<8%). The agriculture (71%),
government, transit and commerce functions (12%) of the town form
its main source of income.
A town maste. plan and zoning plan were developed in 1985 by
PUOD/Ministry of Home Affairs. The projected land use till 2005, is
depicted in map 0.4.
The projected land use 2005 for the administrative area as compared
to 1986 is shown below;
Area ha
Land Use type                1986            2004
Housing                               477           1,610
Commercial/trading                      30             30
Governments                             22             25
Industry/Warehouses                    40              52
Social Facilities                      127            215
Agriculture/Estate                  3,426           5,782
Others                             15,038          11,446
Totals                 19,160          19,160
Source: Palopo master plan, 1986



- 161 -
Annex 1 0
Page 26 of 38
The actual development takes place in the south part of the town in
Kecamatan Wara, Kelurahan Tompotika, Amassangan and Boting.
Constraints are formed by the hills on the west side of town.
The urban master plan emphasizes the development of the commercial
area in the town center and the housing areas towards the south-
east and north along the Trans-Sulawesi highway. The land use
control agency Dinas PU Kabupaten Luwu seems to be in control and
recommendations from the master plan are generally followed, till
now.
Infill rather than expansion should be sought, in order to make
more efficient use of the expensive infrastructure which is already
available.
7.3 Environmental Impact
Drainage & Roads
No significant impacts are anticipated.
Solid Waste and Sanitation
Both of these subprojects require the location of a new sanitary
landfill site and a new sludge treatment facility for septic tank
pumpouts. Both facilities have potential for significant impact on
the environment. Preliminary environmental reports (P.I.L.'s) on
these aspects are required by loan negotiations. Also, these
facilities shall be subject to project supervision using preference
indicates outlined in the project preparation agreement.
Water Supply
As the scale of the increase of water requirements for this
proposal was considered to have potential environmental impact a
P.I.L. report has been prepared as part of project preparation.
This report distinguishes the kinds of impacts that could be
anticipated.
Given the level of detail of this P.I.L. report it is considered
that its recommendations have made a fair assessment of the
existing situation. On the first issue it is recommended that
agricultural development in the proposed catchment area be limited
especially on the steep slopes. This recommendation will require
coordination between a number of Level I departments and the
preparation of a catchment protection plan.
On the second issue it is clear that there is a need to carry out
an additional investigation of the downstream effects of
abstraction of water from the Latupa and Kangkaluku Rivers. Such an
investigation will probably demonstrate that additional irrigation



- 162 -
Annex 10
Page 27 of 38
work will be necessary to ensure continued supply to the sawahs
presently fed by the Amassangan River. An irrigation scheme known
as the Mawa irrigation scheme has already been planned to increase
irrigation efficiency in this area. However a careful investigation
of the social, financial and economic costs of increased water
abstraction should be carried out. Such an investigation should be
completed before loan negotiations. This study should be carried
out as an A.N.D.A.L. as the social  and economic  impacts of
abstraction may be outweighed by the positive impacts of improving
the existing water supply to the township of Palapo.
On the third issue, concerning the effects of construction of the
scheme in Palapo there is no need for additional A.N.D.A.L.
investigation. However, the environmental management issues raised
by the construction and rehabilitation of a city water supply
should be addressed in implementation level - RKL and RPL
management and monitoring plan for the first stage by loan
negotiation. An example of this staged type of managmeent approach
is the water supply component of the JUDPII project.
7.4 Mitigation
The results of the A.N.D.A.L. investigation should result in a
series of mitigating measures to offset the effects of river
abstraction of downstream users. The main strategy will be to
increase the efficiency of the existing system through improvement
in the irrigation canal system. However, a thorough investigation
of any such scheme should be included in the scope of the
A.N.D.A.L. study.
Smaller Cities
(Pare Pare, Bitung, Garantalo, Watampone)
The other four cities in the IUIDP program foL Sulawesi are small
regional cities of less than 100,000 population. The proposals for
funding by the IBRD are small in relative terms and involve mainly
rehabilitation and minor extensions to existing systems. The
significance of these projects from an environmental perspective is
considered minor and more detailed consideration was not considered
necessary. Field inspection of two of the cities (Bitung and
Gorontalo) confirmed this view.
The most significant general issue raised by these towns was the
need to locate both final disposal sites for both solid waste and
human sanitation (septic tank) waste. As described in the other
cities, the project implementation agreement has specified specific
indicators so that the ongoing management of these facilities (once
located) can be monitored through project supervision. The nature
of the type of proposals which are proposed in the smaller cities
are summarised in Table 1.



ANNEX 10
Page 28 of 18
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF PROPOSALS FOR SMALL CITIES LESS THAN 100,000 POPULATION
Eevuatd                                                                                                                                             Wtr
PopuJdon              LUrtn Road                    Urban Drainage                   Solid Waste                    Sanibtion                       Supply
P.re P* r            0Z5          hncas exiin 0 & h             Incrsd 0 a Mi                  Purchse 3 itm  equlpment       Increase in public tieb. pit  Improvement in water
Compee sm_  setios           P habiltein f two maor         Construct minor facii. og.     lamrins nd sptie tan"          ditubution and pressur
maIn                          drve                           Trsnsir Sttion                 Purchae  septic tank
Complkte s1 secion of         AddWiorna 10 Sand Tra          Rehbioita   PA                 pumpout equipmert
Pwumes Vwn Road               Purchse of I excavator
Mw wors an secondary an
lcal road
eung                356wo        Smelt improvent and            hncras 0 & M                   Purchas of small Collection    Soeleon   te dOw sudge         Rehabilition o fxldling
rshub.Mahon of bcal rods      Clean-up and rehabilitation of    equipment                   dipea  00m) o septic tan    system
ine cily pnm  ernd            Select   o nof w n  disposl    pumpout srvic                  New resrvoir required P50m w
secondey drains               sit 6 ha                                                      requred)
Some instalation of sand tra                                                                                               a,
Wlanwpone             0.,700     Work an secton di souEem       Rehabilitaton of primay drain    Selecton of new final dsposa  Purchas of one tuck for       Extnion of exising sistm
K(bupstn             gioni       rung roa                       cut rconstruction end          sil p2.25 hectere)             pumpoui of eptic ts           No bnd ecq"isition reqid
Bone)               2P,700        reiob ewoks on C ctor wnd     rcontucton of scondsy          Purchase of smell equimdt    Seection of site icr sludge      except in two I the mer
Ud-*         local toads                    drln                           c unprovd collection system   disposal                       cnir
ncreased 0 & A
orvt0ilo              3900         _caos a  rehebion    Ceoaing and rehabilitation of          Soelcbon dl now final disposal    Credit schome to encourag   Exnson ond imvemn of
of prlmy    tex tey drins     pimay n terty drain            ail (1 ha)                     use of septic systm   nd soak-  exing system
Purchae of 2 trucks an smal    pitb                          No list acquition noosewy
colection equipmet            Selecion od o disposal sit br



- 164 -
ANNEX 10
Page 29 of 38
Sulawesi - Irian Jaya Urban Development Project
Environmental Assessment
Part II: Irian Java Water Supply Prolects
1.0  Executive Summary
The water supply sub-projects of the SIJUDP could cause minor
impacts  on  the  environment.    There  is  also  potential  for
environmental degradation, not associated with the SIJUDP, to
affect medium to long-term project benefits expected from the
eight water supply sub-projects of this loan.
It is expected that any negative impacts would be small and
easily controllable through minor alterations/additions to the
sub-project design.   Environmental impacts on the sub-projects
are somewhat more serious.
If volume and water quality of the sources supplying the Irian
Jaya water supply sub-projects are not protected, the investment
proposed may not result in the expected benefits to the local
urban population.   It is therefore necessary for the Government
of Indonesia to institute, through its local government network,
a catchment protection and erosion control program.
2.0 Policy, Legal, and Administrative Framework
The Sulawesi/Irian Jaya Urban Development Project (SIJUDP) must
be assessed for possible environmental impacts that may be
associated with construction and/or operational activities. The
requirement for environmental assessment comes from both the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) and from the World Bank.
2.1 GOI Framework for Environmental Assessment
The GOI requirements for environmental assessment of development
projects derive from Law No.4/1982 and Regulations PP29/1986
(implemented in 1987).   The environmental regulations of 1986
were explained in a series of Decrees issued through the Ministry
of Population and Environment (KEP 49-53/MENKLH/6/1987).
The Ministry of Public Works, acting through the authority of
PP29/1986, is in the process of developing operational procedures
and project specific environmental guidelines for assessment of
public works projects.   Decrees by the Minister of Public Works
have now been issued for operational procedures (Number
557/KPTS/1989)  and  project  environmental  screening  (Number
531/KPTS/1989).



- 165 -
ANNEX 10
Page3O of 38
Most recently, national guidelines (PP 20/1990) have been issued
that cover control of pollution in national waterways.   These
regulations directly affect water resource development activities
of the Ministry of Public Works.
2.2 World Bank Environmental Assessment Requirements
Projects undertaken with the assistance of World Bank Loans must
meet  environmental  as  well  as  economic  and  engineering
"feasibility" criteria.  The Tsankls environmental regulations now
come under a single, unifying, Operational Directive (OD). This
directive is OD 4.0, which became effective in October, 1989.
The environmental assessment for the Irian Jaya sub-projects of
SIJUDP   that   follows   also  addressed  the  possibility  of
resettlement and land compensation.  These issues are covered by
a separate Bank directive (OD 4.30: Involuntary Resettlement,
dated 29 June, 1990).
3.0 Project Description
The Irian Jaya water supply sub-projects include new, expansion
and/or rehabilitation of existing water supply systems in the
cities of Sorong, Fak Fak, Nabire, Manokawari, Biak, Jayapura,
Wamena and Serui. Each sub-project also includes technical
assistance   for   project   implementation   and   institutional
development and training.   These last two project components do
not  require  environmental  assessment   (both  logically  and
according to both Bank and GOI project screening guidelines).
4.0 Baseline Data
The description of baseline conditions presented below is at best
very general. It is based on personal visits to Sorong, Biak and
Jayapura, and discussions with the project preparation consultant
(Scott & Furphy Engineering) about the other 5 cities involved in
the Irian Jaya water supply sub-projects.
Fresh water resources of the areas in and around the 8 targeted
cities  are,  surprisingly,  quite  limited.    This  is  unusual
because:
1)   The population density of Irian Jaya is very low.  This
is true of both the rural and urban areas;
2)   The catchments of and around the 8 cities for which
water supply sub-projects are planned are relatively
undisturbed (by Indonesian standards).
Specifically, permanent surface drainage lines tend to be small,
hydrogeologic conditions limit the size of extractable aquifers,
and water quality of both surface and ground waters can often be



- 166 -
ANNEX 10
Page3l of 38
unsuitable for water supply because of turbidity or because they
are contaminated by chemical and biological pollutants (both
naturally and as a result of human activity).   The vegetation
cover of the river catchments are, for most cities, still heavily
forested, although the lower part of the watershed of the Kali
Remu which flows through Sorong has been adversely affected by
slash and burn agriculture and artisanal logging.
The second commonality between the 8 water supply sub-projects is
that all (with the exception of Jayapura) are supplying very
small numbers of people.   As a result, storage facilities and
transmission mains also tend to be small.
The demographic trend in Irian Jaya, according to Tk I and II
level local government officials, is for rural people to migrate
to the cities. Migration into the cities does not appear to be a
short to medium term problem (with the exception of Jayapura)
because of the small size of the cities in Irian Jaya and the
limited number of people living in the rural areas of the
Province. However, this trend may, if uncontrolled, increase the
pressure on in-stream resources (the water flowing naturally in
the drainage line), as poorer people tend to settle near the best
available source of fresh water.   Direct use of surface and
ground waters (ground waters tapped by dug wells) was obvious,
but not extensive, in Sorong (river) and Biak (dug wells).
5.0 Environmental Impacts
When talking about environmental impacts, it is important to
realise that there can be project impacts on the environment, and
impacts of the environment on the project.  The Irian Jaya water
supply projects contain elements of each of these impacts.
First, there is a possibility that water abstraction required for
the operation of one or more of the eight water supply projects
might negatively impact on existing and future in-stream uses and
users of the natural surface and groundwaters.
Secondly, it is also possible that deterioration of the
watersheds controlling volume and quality of the source water
feeding the 8 targeted cities could affect the medium to long-
term viability of these projects. This would be an example of an
environmental impact on a project.
5.1 Project Impacts on the Environment
Of the three Irian Jaya water supply sub-projects visited,
conflict between in-stream users of the resource (including use
of groundwater from dug wells) and project demand for water only
appeared possible in Sorong. However, conflict between existing
users of the water and the water demand of the various sub-



- 167 -
ANNEX 10
Page 32 of 38
projects cannot be discounted in the other 5 cities not visited.
The potential for sub-project impact on in-stream users could
result in a lessening of expected project benefits because the
people affected are likely to be those least able to afford water
supplied by the sub-projects.
Water is the most basic requirement of life. Where water is free
and of useable quality, the likelihood of direct use by poorer
members of the community is very high.  So, reduction in volume
and/or quality of shallow aquifers, and water in surface drainage
lines, can seriously affect those individuals least able to
compensate for the loss through purchase of reticulated water.
A second potential project impact on the environment also relates
to the availability of water.   There are some areas,  such as
Biak, where expansion of the urban zone appears to be, to a large
extent, controlled by availability of water.  If permanent rivers
or streams, or shallow groundwater resources are not available,
urban growth is often limited by the distance people are willing
to carry water from the available source.   In this case, care
must be taken that the reticulated system does not encourage
urban development to move into forested areas of the water supply
watershed.
The final potential impact that might result from implementation
of one or more of the eight water supply projects relates to
disposal of waste water.   As only 3 cities were visited, Biak
will be used as a case study example of the potential for impact.
The consultant s socio-economic and demographic survey indicates
that more than 80% if the population of Biak live in the service
area of the proposed water supply improvement scheme.   Public
health statistics presented in this report also indicated a very
rapid growth in the incidence of malaria, a water borne disease,
from 1981 to 1985 (the time of publication). These statistics go
on to suggest that 25% of the population (223 cases per 1000
people) attended medical facilities for the treatment of malaria
during 1984, and 95% of these cases were in the urban centre of
Biak.
The improvement in existing water service and an increase in the
number of connections proposed in the project will result in an
increase in water consumption and a subsequent increase in the
volume of waste water produced.   This may not be much of a
problem in the less populated areas of Biak where water will be
likely to seep quickly into the ground.   However, in the urban
areas where house density and urban infrastructure is greatest,
there is an increased probably that waste water will pool and
become stagnant.   Describing the drainage system of the urban
centre of Biak as very poor would be an understatement. In fact,
drainage in this area would probably not be significantly



- 168 -
ANNEX 10
Page 33 of 38
different even if the drainage system did not exist at all.
Additional waste water from an improved water reticulation system
is likely to increase the amount of standing water in the town
center and this could increase the incidence of malaria and
gastrointestinal diseases.   This issue was considered important
enough for the Bank (co-financed by the Australian International
Development Assistance Bureau, AIDAB) to commission a Sanitation
Report for Irian Jaya that was published in 1985.  This report
highlighted the connection between water supply, disposal of
human wastes and public health. The concern expressed in the
Bank's sanitation report was supported by observations made
during the Pre-appraisal Mission to Biak.
5.2 Environmental Impacts on the Project
As   previously   mentioned,    abstractable   water   resources
economically available are very limited in and near the eight
target cities. Both surface and ground water resources are to be
involved in the Bank supported water supply projects for the 8
Irian Jaya cities. Some sources will be abstracted for the first
time, while others have been used as water supply sources for
many years. All, however, require some measure of protection.
The concern is that uncontrolled development near or in the
watershed of these water sources could cause:
-    Deterioration  of water  quality which would  require
expensive treatment of the water to ensure potability.
This could change the economic viability of some
schemes;
-    Reduction of water volume which may require other, more
difficult and expensive development works, to be
undertaken.
Specifically, there appears to be strong justification to
exercise   control   over   land  use   (urban,   industrial   and
agricultural development), illegal activity (logging and slash-
dnd-burn farming), and infrastructure development in the water
supply catchments. This control should include:
-    Effort to convert land uses in the targeted watersheds
from those that are not compatible with the need to
ensure a stable discharge with good water quality to
more acceptable uses;
-    Control  of urban and  industrial  development  in the
catchment to prevent biological and chemical pollution
of these water supply sub-projects.



- 169 -
ANNEX 10
Page 34 of 38
Rehabilitation  of  watersheds  through  afforestation
programs, soil conservation works and river bank
stabilization.
6.0 Analysis of Alternatives
Review of the project preparation consultant's reports, including
a review of water resources in and around the eight targeted
cities, indicates that the sources chosen for development are the
best ones.  Water 7-esources of sufficient discharge and quality
that can be econon.ically developed, considering the small number
of consumerp, are so limited that the only alternative
development strategy would appear to be the "no development"
option.  This option would result in a degradation of the urban
environment, ultimately resulting in sever urban environmental
problems.
7.0 Mitigative Plan
Generally, there are three methods of dealing with environmental
problems. These are:
-    Elimination of the problem;
-    Minimisation of the problem;
-    Mitigation of the problem.
The objective of environmental impact assessment is to identify
potential environmental issues early enough in the project
development cycle to allow the problems to be designed out of the
project. Elimination of the impact is the best solution, but if
the problem is too great or has its origin in the nature of the
project itself, it is often possible to design the project in
such a way that the impact is minimised to a level acceptable to
the those affected.
Where an impact can neither be eliminated or minimised, the only
remaining option is to physically compensate through outlay of
money.   This method of dealing with impacts is defined in this
environmental assessment as "mitigation".   As mitigation is an
environmental management tool, and as the potential impacts
identified in these water supply sub-projects do not appear to be
major, the "mitigative plan" will be included in the discussion
of environmental management (see Section 8.0).
8.0 Environmental Management and Training
8.1 Management of Potential Negative Impacts
The possible management provisions that could be included in the
Irian Jaya sub-projects to remove the negative effects of



- 170 -
ANNEX 10
Page35 of 38
environmental issues identified above are:
ISSUE     -    Potential resource conflicts between abstraction
for water supply and in-stream users of the
rebource;
MANAGEMENT     -    Conduct PIL (preliminary environmental impact
assessment,  on  those  sub-projects   that
screening in icates could cause environmental
impacts, including resource conflicts to
determine  likelihood  of  impact  and  to
identify any local residents that would be
impacted by reduce surface discharge or
ground water level;
=    If  in-stream  users  will  be  negatively
affected,   the   project   should   include
provision   for   construction   of   public
standpipes at strategic locations to supply
water without charge to those residents that
are unable to pay for regular reticulated
supply
ISSUE     -   Water    supply    expansion    into    sensitive
environmental areas;
MANAGEMENT:    -    Conduct PIL (preliminary environmental impact
assessment)   on  those  sub-projects   that
screening indicates could cause environmental
impacts, identifying any sensitive areas that
might   be   negatively   affected   through
expansion of water supply into or near those
sensitive environmental areas;
-    Redesign reticulated networks  that  impinge
into sensitive environmental areas or that
might  encourage  population   increase   in
sensitive areas;
ISSUE:    -    Waste water from increase in water supply sub-
projects may cause public health problems if urban
drainage is unable to cope with the extra water;
MANAGEMENT     -    Conduct PIL (preliminary environmental impact
assessment)   on  those   sub-projects   that
screening indicates could cause environmental
impacts,   including   assessment   of   the
likelihood that waste water from water supply
sub-projects will tend to accumulate causing
potential public health problems;



- 171 -
ANNEX 10
Page 360f 38
-    Include minimum needed urban drainage works
before water supply expansion is undertaken
in areas that have been identified in PIL
studies as having potential public health
problems associated with excessive standing
water.
8.2 Management of Environmental Aspects that could Minimise
Project Benefits
Control of degradation and development in the watersheds of the
eight water supply sub-projects in Irian Jaya must be included in
provisions of the SIJUDP loan if project benefits are to be
maximised over the medium to long-term.
The responsible groups that should be involved in an integrated
action plan to manage the targeted watersheds is not clear. This
confusion must be eliminated, and management strategies prepared
for discussion at loan negotiation.   Watershed management plans
agreed to during loan negotiations should be in place by loan
effectiveness.
A "Surat Keputusan" (SK) was issued by the Governor of Irian Jaya
Province that covers all of the 8 cities involved in this water
supply project. As implementation of watershed management policy
will be implemented at the Kabupaten level, the Governor
appointed the Bupatis to action the SK.
The Watershed Management plans should include the following
elements:
Administration,
*    Organisation   of   roles   for   the   Government
organisations involved in watershed management,
under the direction of the Bupati,
*    Organisation of a regular meeting schedule,
*    Estimation of physical and financial resources to
be   mobilised (including any technical assistance
that may be   required in the loan for the water
supply projects),
Planning
*    Development  of  a review  process  for  assessing
proposed development activities in the watersheds;
*    Developmeuit  of  a  watershed  improvement  plan
including reforestation and reeducation/extension
services to change existing agricultural practices
harmful to the watershed into   more acceptable
methods of farming,
Protection
*    Development  of  a watershed  protection  plan  to



- 172 -
ANNEX 10
Page 37 of 38
prevent illegal logging and new slash-and-burn
farming;
*    Identification of soil conservation problems and
cost-effective actions to be taken to reduce soil
erosion in the watershed.
To achieve effective administration, planning and protection of
watersheds, th- SK should include the following specific
elements:
List of the Central and Local (primarily Tk 2, assisted
where necessary by Tk 1) Government organisations that
should  be   included  in  an  integrated  watershed
management plan, and their specific responsibilities in
that watershed plan;
Identification, for each of the 8 cities, of the area
to be included in watershed management activities.
This should be done on topographical maps;
Recommends  the  structural  organisation  of Watershed
Management Committee to be formed in each Kabupaten (it
is anticipated that the Watershed Committee would have
the following positions and possible representatives),
*    Committee Chairman (Bappeda);
*    Committee Secretary (KANWIL);
*    Protection and Enforcement Officer (Kehutanan)
* ^Agricultural Extension Officer (Pertanian)
*    Water Supply Authority (BPAM/PDAM)
*    Others as deemed necessary,
Specific witershed management activities to form the
basis of d management plan, including;
*    activities to prevent, and where necessary control
soil   erosion   (including   such   things   as
reforestation, and toil conservetion engineering
workb);
*    activities  to  improve  catchment  quality  by
encouraging  changes  in  damaging  agricultural
practices (social forestry programs, intercropping
techniques,   technical   agricultural   extension
services, etc);
*    forest protection services, including numbers of
forest guards, estimate of the frequency of needed
forest patrols on a monthly basis, and export
control of illegally cut logs and timber through
the Kabupaten
*    iand use planning which would lead to control of



- 173 -
ANNEX 10
Page38 of 38
the type of industry and urban infrastructure that
could be built in the controlled catchment area
9.0 Monitoring Plan
Monitoring of the Irian Jaya water supply sub-projects would be
the responsibility of Central Project Management Office.   The
annual monitoring report should assess:
-    whether public standpipes required to compensate for
loss of in-stream flow have indeed been constructed;
-    whether the public standpipas constructed to compensate
for loss of in-stream flow are correctly positioned in
regard to demand placed upon them (ie are people
required to walk too far to reach the public
standpipes);
-    whether waste water from expanded water supply systems
is accumulating in drains rather than running off to
proper disposal;
-    whether standing water attributable to waste water from
the water supply sub-projects is causing a significant
increase in public health problems (cases of malaria
and gastroenteritis could be used as indicators);
-    whether the catchment protection strategies are being
implemented, and if so, whether the strategies are
having the desired effect on water source volume and
quality.



- 174 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 4
INDONESIA
SULAWESI-IRIAN JAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Documents In Project File
A. Irian Jaya
1.    Draft Inception Report: Scott and Furphy Engineers, Pty, Ltd.; December
1983.
2.    Draft Report on Design Criteria and Standards; Scott and Furphy Engineers
Pty, Ltd., PT Unisystem Utama, PT Arkonin Engineering; September 1985.
3.    Draft Final Report on Water Resources Technical Notes; Scott and Furphy
Engineers Pty, Ltd., PT Unisystem Utama, PT Arkonin Engineering; June
1986.
4.    Draft Project Preparation Report on Sulawesi-Irian Jaya Secondary Cities
IUIDP Project, Irian Jaya Water Supply Subproject; Scott and Furphy
Engineers Pty Ltd., Dwyer Leslie Pty Ltd, PT Unisystem Utama, PT Arkonin
Engineering; December 1987.
5.    Draft Financial, Institutional and Socio-Economic Report: Overview and
Summary; Scott & Furphy Engineers Pty Ltd., Dwyer Leslie Pty Ltd., PT
Unisystem Utama, PT Arkonin Engineering; June 1987.
6.    Draft  Sanitation  Report:  Scott  and Furphy  Engineers,  Pty,  Ltd;  PT
Unisystem Utama, PT Arkonin Engineering; March 198?.
7.    Manokwari Project Update for Appraisal: Scott and Furphy Engineers, Pty,
Ltd.; PT Unisystem Utama; October 13, 1990.
8.    Wamena Project Update for Appraisal; Scott & Furphy Pty Ltd.; PT Unisystem
Utama, October 13, 1990.
9.    Serui Project Update for Appraisalt Scott and Furphy Engineers, Pty, Ltd.;
PT Unisystem Utama; October 13, 1990.
10.   Nabire Project Update for Appraisal; Scott & Furphy Pty Ltd.; PT Unisystem
Utama, October 13, 1990.
11.   Fak Fak Project Update for Appraisal: Scott and Furphy Engineers, Pty,
Ltd.; PT Unisystem Utama; October 13, 1990.
12.   Sorong Project Update for Appraisal; Scott & Furphy Pty Ltd.; PT Unisystem
Utama, October 13, 1990.



- 175 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 4
13.   Jayapura Project Update for Appraisal: Scott and Furphy Engineers, Pty,
Ltd.; PT Unisystem Utama; October 13, 1990.
14.   Biak Project Update for Appraisal; Scott & Furphy Pty Ltd.; PT Unisystem
Utama, October 13, 1990.
B. Sulavesi
IUIDP Sulawesi Preparation of Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development
Projects for Sulawesi Region: DHV Consulting Engineers; PT Dacrea; PT Bina Asih;
PT Alfacon; Sir M. MacDonald & Partners, October 1S90.
Part I: Non-Water Supply Sector Urban Investment Programe
1.    Kotamadya Ujung Pandang
2.    Kotamadya Gorontalo
3.    Kabupaten Luwu
4.    Kabupaten/Kotif Kendari
5.    Kotamadya Manado
6.    Kabupaten Bone
7.    Kotamadya Bitung
8.    Kotif Palu
9.    Kotamadya Pare Pare
Part II: Water Supply Sector Urban Investment Programme
10.   Kotamadya Gorontalo
11.   Kabupaten Luwu
12.   Kabupaten/Kotif Kendari
13.   Kotamadya Hanado
14.   Kabupaten Bane
15.   Kotamadya Bitung
16.   Kotif Palu
Part III: Municipal and PDAM Financing Plan
18.   Kotamadya Ujung Pandang
19.   Kotamadya Gorontalo
20.   Kabupaten Luwu
21.   Kabupaten/Kotif Kendari
22.   Kotamadya Manado
23.   Kabupaten Bone
24.   Kotamadya Bitung
25.   Kotif Palu
26.   Kotamadya Pare Pare
Special Reports:
27.   Water Supply Sector: Overview and Errata all towns



- 176 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 4
28.   Economic Evaluation - Sulawesi Region.
29.   Feasibility Study - Transport Report II Project Assessment and Evaluation;
Project Management Unit (PMU), INDEC and Associates Ltd; Biec Int. Inc.,
Indah Karya and Rennie Park, June 1990.
30.   Feasibility Study - Ujung Pandang Transport Report I Transport Review and
Forecasts; Project Management Unit (PMU), INDEC and Associates Ltd; Biec
Int. Inc., Indah Karya and Rennie Park, June 1990.
31.   Feasibility  Study - Ujung Pandang Road Maintenance;  PMU,  INDEC and
Associates Ltd; Biec Int. Inc., Indah Karya and Rennie Park, June 1990.
32.   Feasibility Study - Ujung Pandang Highway Engineering; Project Management
Unit (PMU), INDEC and Associates Ltd; Biec Int. Inc., Indah Karya and
Rennie Park, June 1990.
C. Technical Memoranda (in the East Java-Bali UDP Files)
1.    Technical Memorandum, Water Supply, November, 1989. Directorate General
Cipta Karya, MPW.
2.    Technical Memorandum,  City-Wide Drainage.  November  1989.  Directorate
General Cipta Karya., MPW.
3.    Technical Memorandum, Cost Estimating. December 1988. Directorate General
Cipta Karya, MPW.
4.    Technical Memorandum, Solid Waste Disposal, November, 1989. Directorate
General Cipta Karya, MPW.
5.    Technical Memorandum, Human Waste Disposal. November 1989. Directorate
General Cipta Karya., MPW.
6.    Technical Memorandum,  Urban Roads. November 1989. Directorate General
Cipta Karya, MPW.
7.    Real Demaiil Assessment Guidelines. June 1988. Directorate General Cipta
Karya, MPW.
8.    East Java IUIDP Appraisal Process. February, 1989. Directorate General
Cipta Karya., MPW.
9.    Institutional  Development  Strategy  for IUIDP Program  Implementation.
November 1987. Directorate General Cipta Karya, MPW.
10.   IUIDP Appraisal Manual. October 1989.  Directorate General Cipta Karya,
MPW.



- 177 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 4
11.   Economic Appraisal of Water Supply Projects, ECOWAT. April 1989. World
Bank Infrastructure Division, Country Department V, Asia Region.
12.   Urban Roads  Planning  and Programming Manual.  June  1989,  Directorate
General Bina Marga, MPW.
D. Key Aide-Memoires
13.   Sulawesi-Irian Jaya Urban Development Project, Preparation Missior Aide
Memoire. April 19, 1990, World Bank Mission
14.   Sulawesi-Irian Jaya Urban Development Project, Preappraisal Aide-Memoire.
July 1, 1990, World Bank Mission.
15.   Sulawesi-Irian Jaya Urban Development Project, Appraisal Aide-Memoire.
November 1990, World Bank Mission.






1                                                                       r03                                      INDONESIA            4(1                 1
,-.d b, I-rr ,ssvrW %Ws ~ff -U-i, 1-  ISULAWESI-IRIAN  JAYA
/> hrd-.,.id~b^,                                                                                       1 112URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PbIu  Project Towns
MAnodo                                                                                  Province Headquarters
>~                       ~OBjrng                                                                        Kabupoten(district) boundaries
_  0  SIAWFSIJ1AR/k           h-Al AMdH-RA                                                   Province boundaries
;Goronko                                            W-ge(                                       International boundaries
Monckwali
Fbt3                                                                              o Sorong',         0            O"
501 AHJAlJf'.l 11NGAf       .t                      Ohi                                                         0 1    .o 
k $1Ii AWF S: ~~~~~~~~~~~ NOAH  /  4bu                                              0 ~~~~~~~~~Serui              JaY3Pf
S 1U   A Vt-4                                 M    If,.;U I  M:ooi                         _                                     . t 
.    ^ O PckY             \                          S f RA,                                  f     O Nobire                    a
Pbre-ArA                       Kendor                              Ambon                                                                       W
0
sS  JtLAWEI SEAA',4N         . l AV1F!TL Nu IGARA                                                                                                                    >
O  w-    t b o7 W'
0 ~~~~~~I 
Ujung ftndong.                                                                                                                \                                       Z
c
12 r
hir'~~m'.!?,.
THAILAND                         PHIlIPPINES
BRUNFI
PAA LA Y SI A
7' A L  A  Y  S I A  MILES  0                                                                    100       200       30L)      400       50(
SINGAPO.  '                                                                                       I         I                            I I             10
z~~~~~~~~~~                     I     I     I           I                  I
,  - -  _                          KiLOMfFRS 0        200         400                      I 'll,
Z                    JJ1                                                                                                                                                        ;Po
>             ~~~~~~~~* 't! IA   *.O              AeeM.,AM,p   0 A
AUSTRALIA                                                ?J
_  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  __At L A3                                                                                          i



