Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
(Sulawesi-Irian Jaya Urban Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated February 26, 1991
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 26, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the 
Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the Bank, Japan has requested the Bank, and the Bank has agreed, to administer grant 
funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects 
supported by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) the Recipient has requested and Japan has agreed to make available 
to the Recipient a grant (the Grant) out of said grant funds to finance the cost of 
carrying out the technical assistance described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the 
Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement, subject, however, to the following modifications thereto:
(a)
the term "Bank," wherever used in the General Condi-tions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof, means the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the 
letter agreement between Japan and the Bank referred to in Recital (A) of this 
Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in its own capacity;
(b)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Recipient;
Page  2
(c)
the term "Loan Agreement," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
this Agreement;
(d)
the term "Loan," wherever used in the General Condi-tions, means the 
Grant;
(e)
the term "Loan Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, shall 
be amended to read the Grant Account;
(f)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
technical assistance described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(g)
Section 4.01. shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in yen; provided, 
however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant have been paid or are payable in another currency, the Administrator 
shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase such currency with the 
proceeds of such withdrawal.";
(h)
Sections 2.01 (5), (7), (12), (13), (14), (15), (16), (17) and (19), 
3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, 4.07, 4.08, 4.10, 6.02 (a)(i), 
6.02 (g), 6.02 (h), 6.05, 6.07, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 9.01 (b), 9.02, 9.03, 10.02, 12.01, 
12.02, 12.03, 12.04 and 12.05 are deleted;
(i)
the second and third sentences of Section 4.09 are deleted; and
(j)
all references to "the Guarantor," wherever such term is used in the 
General Conditions, shall not apply to this Agree-ment.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the terms "yen" and 
"¥" mean the currency of Japan.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, the Grant in an amount of one hundred 
three million six hundred thousand yen (¥103,600,000).
Section 2.02. The Administrator shall utilize the Grant to finance on a grant 
basis the following expenditures in connection with the services of the Consultants:
(a)
remuneration, per diem and other allowances;
(b)
international and local travel expenses; and
(c)
out-of-pocket expenses, including communications and reports, incurred by 
the Consultants in foreign and local currency in the performance of their services.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1992 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Technical Assistance
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall carry out the Technical Assistance with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
engineering, environmental, financial and public utility practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Technical Assistance.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the consultants' services required for the Technical Assistance and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Page  3
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Technical Assistance of the 
depart-ments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Technical 
Assistance or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other informa-tion concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto.
Section 4.02.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation; Transfer of
Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient shall be the 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions;
For the Recipient:
Minister of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P.O. Box 139
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
FINMINISTRY
44319-DEPKEU-IA
Jakarta
45799-DJMLN-IA
For the Administrator:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Page  4
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ A. R. Ramly
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance to local governments and water enterprises in 
the Provinces of Sulawesi and Irian Jaya to assist in the:
(a)
review and revision of detailed designs of about fifteen water supply 
projects in view of recent feasibility studies in such area; and assistance to the 
local governments in Sulawesi to prepare detailed design of road drainage, solid and 
human waste management projects;
(b)
preparation and packaging of bidding documents for infrastructure 
projects, including soliciting tenders and bid evaluation;
(c)
(i)
preparation and completion of preliminary environmental 
assessments (PILs) for about 35 environmentally sensitive projects, and (ii) 
preparation and completion of 5 to 10 in-depth environmental assessments (ANDALs) for 
projects expected to have major environmental impacts; each such assessment shall be 
prepared in accordance with the Recipient's and the Administrator's environmental 
regulations and guidelines, incorporating mitigative/preventive measures into project 
design, and drafting environmental management and monitoring plans, with attention to 
resettlement needs of people adversely affected; and
(d)
strengthening the environmental assessment capacity of the Provincial 
governments of Sulawesi and Irian Jaya.
SCHEDULE 2
Consultants' Services
Section I.  Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Technical Assistance, the 
Recipient shall employ consultants whose qualifica-tions, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Administrator in 
August 1981.
Page  5
