Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7336-ES 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Social Protection Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 4, 2006 
 
Page  2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7336-ES 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 4, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
the objective of the Project, as described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, is to improve the education, health, and nutrition of the B
orrower’s children 
living in the Borrower’s Participating Municipalities; 
(C) 
the Borrower shall finance Part A of the Project (Conditional Cash 
Transfer Program) out of counterpart funds; 
(D) 
the Borrower intends to contract from the Inter-American Development 
Bank (IADB) a loan in an amount of $57,000,000 (the IADB Loan) to assist in financing 
Parts B and D of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and IADB (the IADB Loan Agreement);  
(E) 
the Borrower, IADB and the Bank intend to enter into an agreement (the 
MOU) to regulate certain matters of disbursement and procurement in connection with 
such financing; 
(F) 
the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend 
the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Page  4
-
2
–
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower 
or the Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on 
their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is 
subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the 
proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the 
amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by 
notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred 
to in respect of such item in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent 
with such policy of the Bank.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) “ACI” 
means 
Adquisiciones y Contrataciones Institucionales
,
FISDL’s 
procurement unit; 
 
(b) “AIN-C” 
means 
Atención Integral en Nutrición a Nivel Comunitario
,
a
community-based growth promotion and nutrition program, with integrated care for 
children; 
 
(c) 
“Beneficiaries” means, collectively, the families which have met the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) for the 
receipt of Grants (as hereinafter defined) under Part A.1 of the Project; 
 
(d) 
“Coordination Agreement” means the Agreement set forth in Section 
3.01 (g) of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Education Grant” means any of the grants to be provided under Part A.1 
(a) of the Project; 
 
(f) 
“Eligible Categories” means: (i) Categories (2), (3) and (4) (for Special 
Account A); and (ii) Category (1) (for Special Account B) as set forth in the table in Part 
A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
Page  5
-
3
–
(g) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, consultants’ 
services and NGOs fees, referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Financial Institution” means any financial institution, corporation, 
partnership, NGO (as defined hereinafter) or other entity organized and registered under 
the Borrower’s laws, which has been selected in accordance with the criteria set forth in 
the Operational Manual, and acceptable to the Bank, that enters into a Financial 
Institution Agreement (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(i) 
“Financial Institution Agreement” means any of the agreements referred 
to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Financial Institution Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(k) “FISDL” 
means 
Fondo de 
Inversión Social para el Desarrollo Local,
 the 
Borrower’s social investment fund for local development, established and operating 
pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s Legislative Decree No. 610, dated October 
31, 1990, and published the Borrower’s Official Gazette No. 262, on November 16, 1990, 
as modified by the Borrower’s Legislative Decree No. 826, dated September 19, 1996, 
and published the Borrower’s Official Gazette No. 184 on October 2, 1996; 
 
(l) 
“Grant” means either an Education Grant or Health and Nutritional Grant 
(as hereinafter defined); 
 
(m) 
“IPDP” means the Borrower’s action plan to enhance the participation of 
indigenous peoples under the Project, as set forth in the Operational Manual, published in 
FISDL’s (as hereinafter defined) website on August 18, 2005; 
 
(n) 
“Loan No. 7084-ES” means the Loan Agreement entered into on January 
11, 2002 between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the 
Republic of El Salvador for the Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction and Health 
Services Extension Project; 
 
(o) “MINED” 
means 
Ministerio de Educaci
ón
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Education; 
 
(p) 
“MINED Participation Agreement” means the Agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement; 
 
(q) “MOH” 
means 
Ministerio de Salud P
ública y Asistencia Social
,
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Health and Social Assistance; 
Page  6
-
4
–
(r) 
“MOH Participation Agreement” means the Agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement; 
 
(s) 
“Monitoring Indicators” means the indicators to be used in monitoring 
and evaluating the implementation of the Project, as set forth in the Operational Manual; 
 
(t)  
“NGO” or “non-governmental organization” means a non-governmental 
organization established and operating in the Borrower’s territory selected in accordance 
with criteria set forth in the Operational Manual for implementation of Part B of the 
Project; 
 
(u) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.04 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(v) 
“Participating Agencies” means MINED, MOH, STP and RNPN; 
 
(w) 
“Participation Agreements” means the MINED Participation Agreement, 
the MOH Participation Agreement, and the RNPN Participation Agreement; 
 
(x) 
“Participating Municipality” means any of the Borrower’s one hundred 
municipalities which may be considered eligible (including those affected by extreme 
poverty and located in the Borrower’s rural areas), pursuant to the criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual, to participate in the carrying out of the Project; 
 
(y) 
“Participating Municipality Agreement” means 
Convenio de 
Participación,
 the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (f) of this Agreement, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Participating 
Municipality Agreement; 
 
(z) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
September 13, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.03 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation. 
 
(aa) “Program” 
means 
Red Solidaria
,
the Borrower’s safety net program, 
created pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s Executive Decree No. 11, published 
in the Borrower’s Official Gazette No. 45, dated March 4, 2005; 
 
(bb) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.6 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
Page  7
-
5
–
(cc) 
“RHESSA PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit established by the 
Borrower within MOH under Loan No. 7084-ES, pursuant to Ministerial Resolution No. 
718, dated August 28, 2003, issued by the Borrower’s Minister of Health, or any 
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank; 
(dd) 
“RNPN” means the Borrower’s civil registry (
Registro Nacional de las 
Personas Naturales
), created by the Borrower’s Legislative Decree No. 552, dated 
December 21, 1995 (
Ley Orgánica del Registro Nacional de las Personas Naturales
), as 
amended to the date of this Agreement;  
(ee) 
“RNPN Participation Agreement” means the Agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement; 
(ff) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Part B of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement; 
(gg) 
“Steering Committee” means the inter-institutional committee referred to 
in Section 3.05 (a) (ii) of this Agreement which was established and operating pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Presidential Accord No. 11, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette 
No. 45, dated March 4, 2005; 
(hh) “STP” 
means 
Secretar
ía Técnica de la Presidencia,
 the Borrower’s 
technical secretary of the presidency; and 
(ii) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and FISDL pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time with the approval of the Bank. 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twenty one 
million Dollars ($21,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
Page  8
-
6
–
NGOs Fees, and 
consultants’ services required for Parts B, C, D.3 and D.5 of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2011 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. Such fee shall be 
payable not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
Page  9
-
7
–
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted b
y
the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be carried out, 
through: (i) FISDL (with respect to Parts A, C and D of the Project); and (ii) MOH (with 
respect to Part B of the Project), all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, social protection, health and nutritional, education, 
financial accountability, participatory and social standards and practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to FISDL 
under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and FISDL (the 
Subsidiary Agreement), under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Bank, including those set forth in the Operational Manual with respect to financial 
management, procurement, social criteria and other procedures and guidelines for the 
carrying out of the Project. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) above, 
prior to carrying out any activity under Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall cause 
FISDL to enter into an agreement with MOH (the MOH Participation Agreement), under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in the Operational 
Manual with respect to the role and responsibilities of MOH in the provision of health 
services. 
 
(d) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) above, 
the Borrower shall cause FISDL to enter into an agreement with MINED (the MINED 
Participation Agreement), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
those set forth in the Operational Manual with respect to the role and responsibilities of 
MINED in the implementation of the Project. 
 
(e) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) 
above, the Borrower shall cause FISDL to enter into an agreement with RNPN (the 
RNPN Participation Agreement), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
Page  10
-
8
–
including those set forth in the Operational Manual with respect to the role and 
responsibilities of RNPN in the implementation of Part C of the Project. 
 
(f) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), and 
(e) above, prior to the provision of Grants in a Participating Municipality, the Borrower 
shall cause FISDL to enter into an agreement (a Participating Municipality Agreement) 
with each Participating Municipality responsible for assisting FISDL in the 
implementation of the Project, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which 
shall include provisions set forth in the Operational Manual, including
,
inter alia, 
the 
obligation of the Participating Municipality to: (i) assign, and thereafter maintain, until 
the completion of the Project, dedicated staff in the respective municipal units (
Comit
é
Local
)
which shall be responsible for the efficient provision of support of the activities 
under the Project; and (ii) provide logistical and administrative support for the efficient 
and transparent provision of Grants to the Beneficiaries in such municipality.   
 
(g) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) 
and (f) above, the Borrower shall cause FISDL to enter into an agreement (the 
Coordination Agreement) with STP, which shall include provisions which shall have 
been approved by the Bank, including, 
inter alia
:
institutional roles and responsibilities, 
coordination mechanisms, reporting arrangements and the institutional procedures to 
ensure timely and smooth inter-institutional coordination, for the carrying out of the 
Project. 
 
(h) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement and shall cause FISDL to exercise its rights and its obligations 
under each Participation Agreement and each Participating Municipality Agreement in 
such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not, and shall not allow FISDL to, amend, assign, abrogate, suspend, terminate, 
waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement, the Coordination Agreement, any 
Participation Agreement, any Participating Municipality Agreement, or any provision 
thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, prior to the provision of Grants, the Borrower shall cause FISDL to enter into 
an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank (the Financial Institution Agreement), with the 
corresponding Financial Institution, which shall include provisions as set forth in the 
Operational Manual, including, 
inter alia
,
the obligations of the Financial Institution to: 
(i) act as an agent of FISDL, for the purposes of making payments, out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, of Grants to the Beneficiaries, all in accordance with the provisions of Part A.1 
of the Project and the procedures detailed in the Operational Manual; and (ii) assist 
FISDL with the carrying out of its financial management obligations under the provisions 
of this Agreement. 
 
Page  11
-
9
–
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause FISDL to exercise its rights and obligations 
under each Financial Institution Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not allow FISDL to, amend, assign, 
abrogate, suspend, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Financial Institution 
Agreement, or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause FISDL to update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank 
not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause FISDL (with respect of Parts A, C 
and D of the Project) and MOH (with respect to Part B of the Project) to carry out the 
Project, and shall cause the Participating Municipalities, STP, MINED and RNPN, to 
carry out their respective activities under the Project, in accordance with the terms of a 
manual satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual). Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower, through the Steering Committee, shall not amend, waive 
or fail to enforce the Operational Manual, or any provision thereof. In case of any conflict 
between the terms of this Agreement and those of the Operational Manual, the terms of 
this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
(b) 
The Operational Manual shall include provisions detailing procedures 
and guidelines for the carrying out of the Project, including, 
inter alia
:
(i)
 
the IPDP; (ii) 
the criteria for suspension and payments of funds to beneficiaries in case of non-
compliance; and (iii) model contractual provisions for the
:
(A) Participating Municipality 
Agreements; (B) Financial Institution Agreements and the corresponding arrangements 
for the transfer of Grants through Financial Institutions to the Beneficiaries (including the 
provision of mobile banking services in rural Participating Municipalities without banks) 
and the control and auditing procedures to ensure the transparent provision of Grants; and 
(C) a model grant agreement to be signed between the Beneficiaries and FISDL. 
 
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, throughout the execution of the Project, 
maintain at all times: (i) the RHESSA PCU, or any successor thereto acceptable to the 
Bank, with functions, staffing and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including 
without limitation a coordinator responsible for overseeing the day-to-day 
implementation of Project activities, a procurement officer, and a financial management 
officer; (ii) the committee comprising representatives of the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Finance, STP, MOH, MINED, and FISDL, for the provision of strategic guidance on the 
Page  12
-
10 
–
development and implementation of the monitoring and evaluation system financed under 
the Project; and (iii) a Program coordinator which shall be appointed by STP, with 
qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, and in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause FISDL to hire a procurement specialist for the 
ACI with qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the 
Bank and in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual. 
 
Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, through FISDL (for the purposes of Parts A, C and D 
of the Project) and MOH (for the purposes of Part B of the Project) shall during the 
execution of the Project: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank (the 
Monitoring Indicators), the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objective thereof; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank, by not later than May 31 and November 30 of each 
year during the execution of the Project, a report, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, which reports shall include: (i) a detailed 
description of Project activities, including the provision of Grants, during the period 
preceding the date of said report; (ii) a detailed progress report, including lessons learned 
during Project implementation, the role of the Participating Municipalities, RNPN, and 
the performance of Financial Institutions in the provision of Grants; (iii) the results of the 
impact evaluation referred to in Part D.3 of the Project, if applicable; and (iv) the 
identification of any issue that may delay Project implementation, including the provision 
of Grants, and setting out measures recommended to solve such issue and ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; 
 
(c) 
periodically review with the Bank the progress in the implementation of 
the Project, based on the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, to 
inter alia
:
(i) assess the efficacy of the implementation of the Program in the Participating 
Municipalities, including the efficient and transparent provision of Grants to the 
Beneficiaries; (ii) assess the level of participation of indigenous peoples’ under the 
Project pursuant to the provisions of the IPDP; (iii) assess the results of the inter-
institutional mechanisms established pursuant to the provisions of the Participation 
Agreements; (iv) assess the contributions of the Participating Municipalities, the 
Participating Agencies and the Financial Institutions to the timely and efficient 
implementation of the Project; (v) evaluate the efficacy of the Project implementation and 
coordination mechanisms at the central, regional and municipal levels; and (vi) the results 
of the impact evaluation of referred to in Part D.3 of the Project; and 
Page  13
-
11 
–
(d) 
after said reviews, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the 
conclusions and rec
ommendations of the said reports and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, through FISDL and MOH, and in close 
coordination with the corresponding Participating Municipality, carry out the IPDP. 
 
Section 3.08. By not later than three months
 
after the Effectiveness Date, the 
Borrower shall cause FISDL to establish and thereafter maintain until the completion of 
the Project, a conditional cash transfer management and control information system in 
accordance with terms detailed in the Operational Manual.  
Section 3.09. The Borrower, through MOH and with the assistance of the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, shall develop a forward looking action plan, including 
an implementation timetable, detailing the financial sustainability of the services set forth 
in Part B of the Project beyond the Closing Date, which plan shall be submitted to the 
Bank for its review and comments by not later than 18 months after the Effective Date. 
 
Section 3.10. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through MOH shall, and shall cause FISDL to, 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause FISDL to: 
Page  14
-
12 
–
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause FISDL to 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
Page  15
-
13 
–
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of 
such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first four month period after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
four month period; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent four month period, and shall cover such four month period. 
 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
FISDL has failed to comply with any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Any Participating Agency has failed to comply with any of its 
obligations under its respective Participation Agreement or Coordination Agreement, as 
the case may be. 
 
(c) 
The Decrees referred to in the definitions of FISDL and Program in 
Section 1.02 (k) and (aa) of this Agreement or any provision thereof shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FISDL. 
Page  16
-
14 
–
(e) 
The IADB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
October 12, 2006, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction 
of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement. 
(f) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
IADB Loan made to the Borrower for the financing of 
the Project shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of 
the IADB Loan Agreement; or 
(B) 
the IADB Loan shall have become due and payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof. 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
 
(c) 
The event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the provision of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section. 
 
Page  17
-
15 
–
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and FISDL;  
(b) 
the agreements referred to in Section 3.01 (c), (d) and (g) of this 
Agreement have been executed on behalf of FISDL and the respective Participating 
Agencies; and  
(c) 
the Operational Manual has been adopted by the Steering Committee in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and FISDL and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and FISDL in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date July 3, 2006, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  18
-
16 
–
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda 
 
Boulevard de los Héroes #1231 
 
San Salvador, El Salvador, C.A. 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(503) 2225-7491 
 
With a copy to: 
 
FISDL 
 
10
Av. Sur, Calle Mexico, Barrio San Jacinto 
 
San Salvador, El Salvador, C.A. 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(503) 2237-0137 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  19
-
17 
–
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
 
By /s/ René A. León 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Ulrich Zachau 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  20
-
18 
–
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
to be financed 
(1) 
NGOs Fees; and  
14,700,000 
 
75% 
 
consultants’ services 
  
 
under Part B of the Project 
 
(Expanding Provision of  
 
Basic Health and Nutrition 
 Services) 
   
 
(2) 
Goods; and consultants’  
4,000,000 
 
100% 
 
services under Part C of the 
 Project 
 
(Strengthening Legal Access 
 to 
Services) 
   
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 
services; 
1,600,000 
 100% 
  
 
under Part D.5 of the 
 
 
 Project 
(Data 
collection 
 activities) 
 
 
 
 
 
(4) 
Consultants’ services under Part 
400,000 
 
 
50% 
 
D. 3 of the Project (Impact 
 Evaluation) 
 
(5) Unallocated 
300,000 
 
___________ 
 TOTAL 
21,000,000
 
========== 
 
Page  21
-
19 
–
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule
 “NGOs Fees” means the reasonable 
expenditures incurred by the Borrower for contract fees paid, or to be paid, to an NGO 
for the provision of the health and nutrition services under Part B.1 of the Project. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $2,100,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 1, 2006; 
and  
 
(b) 
payments under Category 2 of the table in paragraph 1 above unless the 
Agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank has 
been entered into by FISDL and RNPN. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of any Category set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule 
unless and until the Borrower shall have paid to the Bank in full the front-end fee referred 
to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
5. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $250,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services of individual consultants costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (c) services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) services provided by NGOs 
under Part B.1 of the Project, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
6. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
 
B. Special 
Accounts
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars in its central bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, two separate special deposit accounts (Special 
Account A, for Parts C and D of the Project, and Special Account B, for Part B of the 
Project).  
Page  22
-
20 
–
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (i) 
the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
Page  23
-
21 
–
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  24
-
22 
–
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Accounts 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means: (i) an 
amount of $600,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Borrower’s central bank for Special Account A; and (ii) an amount of $1,400,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Borrower’s central bank for 
Special Account B, all pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.  
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the relevant Special Accounts of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the relevant Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the relevant Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
Page  25
-
23 
–
amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  26
-
24 
–
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Accounts 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Accounts in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Accounts shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the relevant Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
 
Page  27
-
25 
–
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to improve the education, health, and nutrition of 
the Borrower’s children living in the Borrower’s Participating Municipalities, by 
providing support to the Borrower’s Program. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A
:
Conditional Cash Transfer Program
1. 
Establishment and implementation of a conditional cash transfer program (the 
Program), and implementation of its first phase, through the provision of: 
 
(a) 
grants to Beneficiaries with children aged between five (5) and fifteen 
(15) years old enrolled and attending classes in primary school and maintaining a class 
attendance of 80%; and 
 
(b) 
grants to Beneficiaries with children aged between zero (0) and five (5) 
years old participating in the vaccinations and health controls and prenatal care, 
according to the protocols set forth in the Operational Manual;
 
2. 
The carrying out of a series of activities aimed at assisting the Beneficiaries to 
participate and obtain the maximum benefit from the conditional cash transfer Program, 
including: 
 
(a) 
assisting Beneficiaries to understand Program objectives and regulations 
and meet co-responsibilities to obtain the Grants; and 
 
(b) 
carrying out training activities and workshops on topics of health 
prevention and nutrition, regular school attendance, avoidance of child labor, community 
development and social audit of basic services. 
 
3. 
The strengthening of the technical capabilities of FISDL for the implementation 
of the Program, including the design and implementation of: (a) a system to target 
Beneficiaries; (b) a monitoring system to verify the Beneficiaries’ compliance with 
eligibility conditions for receiving the Grants, control payments to Beneficiaries and 
generate managerial reports and progress indicators; and (c) a management information 
system to track the physical and financial progress of the Program, all through the 
Page  28
-
26 
–
provision of consultants’ services, training, operating costs and the acquisition of office 
equipment. 
 
Part B
:
Expanding Provision of Basic Health and Nutrition Services
1. 
The expansion of the coverage of basic health and nutrition services (including 
the AIN-C) to the rural population of the Participating Municipalities in accordance with 
the protocols set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
2. 
The strengthening of the technical capabilities of MOH to contract and supervise 
the provision of the services described in paragraph 1 above. 
 
Part C
:
Strengthening Legal Access to Services
The strengthening of the institutional capacity of RNPN to expand the coverage 
of the Borrower’s civil registry system to issue birth certificates and/or national 
identification documents to the Beneficiaries, through the provision of technical 
assistance and the acquisition of office equipment. 
 
Part D
:
Monitoring and Evaluation of the Program and Social Awareness Strategy
The strengthening of the institutional capacity of STP to monitor and assess the 
effectiveness of the Program and ensure adequate inter-institutional coordination during 
the implementation of the Program, including, 
inter alia
:
1. 
the carrying out of a social awareness strategy at the national and local level for 
the dissemination of the Program; 
 
2. 
the implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system linked to FISDL to 
oversee the physical and financial progress of the Program; 
 
3. 
the carrying out of an assessment to measure the impact of the conditional cash 
transfers on school attendance, nutrition, immunization, and use of health facilities;  
 
4. 
the carrying out of: (a) audits referred to in Section 4.01; and (b) operational 
audits to ensure an efficient and transparent implementation of the Grants; and 
 
5. 
the carrying out of the necessary data collection activities required to register 
potential Beneficiaries for the Program.     
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2010.
Page  29
-
27 
–
SCHEDULE 3
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning April 15, 2012 through October 15, 2021 
5% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Page  30
-
28 
–
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  31
-
29 
–
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding 
(including Non-Consultant Services offered by NGOs).  The provisions of paragraphs 
2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the 
evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 
equivalent per contract, and Non-Consultant Services offered by NGOs costing less than 
$500,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of National Competitive Bidding in a manner consistent with the terms of Standard 
Bidding Documents satisfactory to the Bank to be used by the Borrower for this purpose.  
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping (including Non-
Consultant services offered by NGOs). 
Page  32
-
30 
–
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for 
Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
procurement method. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
5. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
6. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
Page  33
-
31 
–
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
