Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC1473 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 06/10/2005 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: El Salvador 
Project ID: P088642 
Project Name: Social Protection project 
Task Team Leader: Andrew D. Mason 
Estimated Appraisal Date: August 8, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: October 27, 2005 
Managing Unit: LCSHS-DPT 
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector: Other social services (100%) 
Theme: Other social protection and risk management (P);Other social development (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
35.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
0.00 
 
INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK 
50.00
50.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The development objective of the project is to support the Government of El Salvador in 
improving access to basic services of the poorest Salvadoran families, by helping them to invest 
in the education, health, and nutrition of their children, aged 0-14. Specifically, the Project will 
support the Red Solidaria program in the implementation of a conditional cash transfer (CCT) 
programs in the country's poorest municipalities. The Project will focus on establishing a system 
of cash transfers to eligible families conditional on their fulfilling a set of conditions (called by 
the Salvadorans co-responsibilidades, or ?co-responsibilities?) regarding children's school 
attendance, growth monitoring and nutritional control, maternal training in basic health and 
nutrition practices.  The Project is framed within government?s objective of strengthening the 
human capital of poor Salvadorans and improving their ability to participate in and benefit from 
future socio-economic progress.  
 
In order to ensure effective implementation of the CCT program, the Project will also finance 
two complementary sets of investments that recent experience in the region indicates are 
important to ensuring that conditional cash transfers fulfill their goal of increasing access of the 
very poor to basic services.  Specifically, the Project will support government efforts to (i) 
Page  2
expand the supply and improve the quality of a packet of basic health and nutrition services in 
poor areas; and (ii) ensure poor Salvadorans living in the targeted municipalities have legal 
access to services, by making sure that they possess the requisite legal documentation, such as 
birth certificates and related identification.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
I. Providing Conditional Cash Transfers.  This component would support the GOES in 
establishing a CCT program for eligible families living in the poorest 100 municipalities.  
Transfers would be made conditional on families fulfilling a set of specified co-responsibilities, 
as mentioned above.   Targeting of beneficiary families will be based on proxy means test 
developed and tested during project preparation (and financed under the above-mentioned PHRD 
grant).  Payment of the transfers would be made through the Salvadoran banking system.  As is 
standard practice in conditional cash transfer programs, transfers will be made to mothers who 
will be responsible for the fulfillment of households? co-responsibilities. In line with the 
commitments of the Red Solidaria program, it is expected that this component will benefit about 
100,000 families and roughly 300,000 children over the period of the project.  
 
II. Ensuring Provision of Basic Services.  Recent experience indicates that to maximize the 
impact of CCTs on human capital outcomes, there must be an adequate supply of the relevant 
education and health services.  This component will thus support extension and strengthening of 
basic health and nutritional services in the 100 poorest municipalities where the conditional cash 
transfer program will be implemented.  The project will support the availability of an agreed 
protocol for primary health services, including nutrition programs, by expanding coverage of the 
basic package of health services, including the strengthening of nutritional interventions based 
on the AIN-C model.  The health and nutrition component will build on and complement 
ongoing operations by the IDB and World Bank supporting the provision of basic health 
services.  The ongoing operations are expected to provide services to roughly 40 of the 100 
poorest municipalities targeted under the Red Solidaria; service gaps in the remaining 
municipalities would be served under this component.  
 
III. Strengthening Legal Access to Services through the Civil Registry.  Basic education and 
health services are available, legally, to Salvadorans by virtue of being registered as citizens of 
El Salvador.  Yet, many of the poorest Salvadorans lack the requisite identification and 
documentation.  This component will promote greater legal access to basic education and health 
services of Red Solidaria beneficiaries through their obtaining legal recognition through the civil 
registry system.  Specifically, this component will focus on ensuring that all members of 
participating families are incorporated in the national civil registry system and posses adequate 
personal identification documents (e.g., birth certificates, identity cards) to have the proper legal 
basis for basic service access.  
 
IV. Institutional Capacity-Building and Project Management.  This component will provide 
institutional strengthening to the agencies involved in implementing the Government?s program, 
specifically to the Social Fund for Local Development (FISDL) and the Technical Secretariat of 
the Presidency (STP). The Project will support the GOES in implementing a new and innovative 
intervention in El Salvador, one that, at present, does not have an institutional structure.  In this 
context, this component will allocate a significant proportion of its resources to finance and 
Page  3
provide technical assistance for building institutional capacity, establishing coordination 
mechanisms, and developing monitoring and evaluation tools.  Because implementation of the 
government program (and this Project) involves the establishment of new institutional capacity, 
it is expected that at the beginning the operational costs will be higher than international norms.  
As part of this component, the Project will also finance and provide technical support for a 
comprehensive implementation, monitoring and evaluation system with four prongs: (i) a system 
for targeting and assessing the eligibility for participation in the Red Solidaria, including of a 
Beneficiary List; (ii) a management information system to track Project?s physical and financial 
progress during implementation; (iii) a supervision mechanism to verify families? fulfillment of 
their co-responsibilities under the cash transfer component; and (iv) an external impact 
evaluation, carried out on the basis of a baseline and follow-up surveys.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
The Project will be implemented in rural parts of the 100 poorest municipalities in El Salvador as 
identified by the Government?s new Poverty Map.  The Poverty Map was developed with 
technical assistance from the World Bank.  Eligible households will be identified through the use 
of a proxy means test that will be developed and tested during project preparation.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
n/a   
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X  
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
 
X
A
social assessment will be conducted.  Within this assessment, it will be determined if the 
safeguard policy related to indigenous peoples is applicable and a plan will be developed if 
necessary.   
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
C
-
Not Required 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  06/29/2005 
 
Page  4
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  N/A 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
n/a   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Andrew D. Mason 
06/10/2005 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Jean-Roger Mercier 
06/08/2005 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Ms Helena G. Ribe 
06/10/2005 
Comments:  agree that we will wait until the SA is finished to determine if the IP OD is triggered 
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  5
