Page  1
DRAFT 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1539 
Project Name 
Social Protection project 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Other social services (100%) 
Project ID 
P088642 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF EL SALVADOR 
Implementing Agency 
 
FISDL - Fondo de Inversi
ón
Social y Desarrollo Local 
10a. Av. Sur y Calle M 
Barrio San Jacinto, frente Casa Presiden 
El Salvador 
Tel: (503) 237-0122 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
April 8, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
August 8, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
October 27, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Key development issues
.
El Salvador has made a number of important socio-economic gains since the end of its civil war in 1992.  
The economy grew by an impressive 6 percent per year from 1990-1995 and, then, by an average rate of 
2.8 percent from 1996-2002.  Moreover, economic growth, coupled with reforms in some key sectors and 
increases in social sector spending in the second half of the decade, has contributed to substantial 
reductions in poverty and improvements in basic socio-economic indicators over the period.  The poverty 
headcount has fallen by more than one-third, from 64 percent in 1991 to 37 percent in 2002; education 
levels have risen; access to basic services, such as safe water, has increased; and basic health outcomes, 
such as life expectancy, infant and child mortality, and child nutrition have all improved.   
 
At the same time, El Salvador faces important challenges moving forward.  Slower growth since the mid-
1990s has meant that average per capita incomes have barely grown over the last several years, 
observably slowing poverty reduction and socio-economic progress since 2000.  Efforts to reinvigorate 
economic growth have been complicated by several external factors 
–
two powerful earthquakes.  And 
despite important gains, a number of key social indicators in El Salvador – e.g., in education and in access 
to safe water – are still below the average for the Latin America region and for Lower Middle Income 
Countries.  Moreover, while gaps between the poor (overall) and non-poor have declined recently in basic 
education, infant mortality, and access to potable water, the recent World Bank Poverty Assessment for El 
Salvador (2004) found that the extreme poor – roughly 15 percent of the population in 2002 – have not 
benefited proportionately from recent socio-economic progress and are, thus, at risk of falling even 
further behind. 
 
Page  2
DRAFT 
One of the key findings of the recent Poverty Assessment was that many of the extreme poor have not 
been able to take advantage of recent socio-economic progress in El Salvador due to a weak human 
capital.  The findings suggested, in addition, that special measures 
–
beyond traditional education and 
health ministry programs – are warranted to ensure that the extreme poor are able to take advantage of 
future socio-economic progress.  Additional analysis, based on a new Poverty Map for El Salvador 
developed with World Bank support, shows that poverty has a strong spatial dimension, with extreme 
poverty rates being particularly elevated in the 100 poorest municipalities.  Together, the collection of 
evidence highlights the relevance of developing a social safety net that can assure the poorest families in 
El Salvador’s poorest municipalities have access to basic education, health, and nutritional services.  
 
Rationale for Bank involvement.   
 
The World Bank and the Government of El Salvador (GOES) have been collaborating on poverty and 
social policy issues, including on social protection, for several years.  The most recent round of activities 
began in the aftermath of the 2001 earthquakes when the government asked the Bank to analyze the 
poverty and social situation in the country. In this context, the Bank initiated an analytical program that 
generated two policy notes in 2002:  one on poverty and social spending, the other on strengthening El 
Salvador’s social safety net.  These policy notes generated demand from the GOES for a full-blown 
Poverty Assessment focused on strengthening social policy as well as technical assistance focused on 
development of a Poverty Map for better poverty targeting of public interventions.   
 
Several key findings and policy messages of the Poverty Assessment helped to move the Bank’s dialogue 
with the GOES forward and created additional impetus for action in-country: 
 
·
Among the key determinants of the extreme poor’s inability to take advantage of recent socio-
economic progress in El Salvador is their weak human capital and on-going lack of access to 
basic services to promote human development (coupled with poor access to markets).  
 
·
Successfully addressing this problem will require a series of measures to strengthen access of the 
poor to education and health services through the traditional line ministries.   
 
·
To be effective in the short-run, traditional sectoral approaches will need to be complemented by 
the development and strengthening of a social safety net dedicated to ensuring access to basic 
education and health services by the poorest Salvadorans.   
 
Indeed, the ensuing policy dialogue on the Poverty Assessment findings, along with the technical 
assistance from the Bank, all served to generate further GOES demand for World Bank support on 
development of a poverty reduction program.  As a first step toward meeting this demand, the World 
Bank team sought and obtained a PHRD Grant for the preparation of a Social Protection Operation. 
 
In June 2004, a new government was 
elected into office in El Salvador, under the leadership of President 
Saca.  The new administration comes with a strong commitment to reinvigorating growth and creating 
new momentum on poverty reduction and social progress.  Indeed, strengthening of El Salvador’s social 
safety net is a core element of the new administration’s platform.  Toward this end, the Government has 
launched the 
Red Solidaria
 Program that, in line with several key elements of the Bank’s recent analytical 
work, focuses on an integrated approach to strengthening the human capital of the poorest Salvadorans 
living in rural areas, by:  (i) ensuring access basic education from pre-school through 6
th
 grade; (ii) 
ensuring access to a basic package of health services, especially for young children and pregnant mothers; 
and (iii) improving child nutritional status. 
 
Page  3
DRAFT 
In this context, the proposed operation is a natural next step in the Bank’s ongoing collaboration with the 
GOES on poverty and social policy, as it will support the GOES’s own efforts to tackle poverty through 
the implementation of multi-sectoral program to strengthen the human capital of the poorest Salvadorans.  
The proposed operation is also strongly consistent with the current CAS for El Salvador.  
The project will 
sup
port two of the CAS’s main pillars: Pillar 2, focused on 
improving equity through building human 
capital and enhancing access to basic socioeconomic infrastructure and markets
;
and Pillar 3, focused on 
enhancing security and reducing vulnerability
.
Indeed, the Project is one of the new operations identified 
in the CAS to reduce vulnerability through the development of a stronger social safety net for the poor.  
Given its multi-sectoral focus, the project also complements ongoing and planned World Bank operations 
in the education and health sectors.
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed Project is framed within Government of El Salvador’s objective of strengthening the 
education, health, and nutrition of the poorest Salvadorans, and improving their ability to participate in 
and benefit from future socio-economic progress.  The development objective of the Project is to support 
El Salvador’s 
Red Solidaria
 program in initiating a conditional cash transfer (CCT) programs in the 
country’s poorest municipalities. The Project will thus focus on the establishment and implementation of 
a
system of cash transfers
 
to eligible families, conditional on their fulfilling a set of conditions (called by 
the Salvadorans 
co-responsibilidades
,
or
“co-responsibilities”) regarding children’s school attendance, 
growth monitoring and nutritional control, maternal training in basic health and nutrition practices.     
 
In order to ensure effective implementation of the CCT program, the Project will also finance three 
complementary sets of activities that recent experience in the region indicates are important to ensuring 
that conditional cash transfers fulfill their goal of increasing access of the very poor to basic services.  
Specifically, the Project will support government efforts to (i) expand the supply and improve the quality 
of a packet of basic health and nutrition services in poor areas; (ii) ensure poor Salvadorans living in the 
targeted municipalities have 
legal
 access to services, by making sure that they possess the requisite legal 
documentation, such as birth certificates and related identification; and (iii) strengthen the capacity of the 
Salvadoran institutions charged with successful implementation of the CCT program.  An important 
element of this capacity-building will involve strengthening of inter-institutional coordination between 
the ministries and agencies involved in the CCT and its related activities. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
I. Providing Conditional Cash Transfers.  
This component would support the GOES in establishing a 
CCT program for eligible families living in the poorest 100 municipalities.  Transfers would be made 
conditional on families fulfilling a set of specified co-responsibilities, as mentioned above.
1
Targeting of 
beneficiary families will be based on proxy means test developed and tested during project preparation 
(and financed under the above-mentioned PHRD grant).  Payment of the transfers would be made through 
the Salvadoran banking system.  As is standard practice in conditional cash transfer programs, transfers 
will be made to mothers who will be responsible for the fulfillment of households’ co-responsibilities. In 
line with the commitments of the 
Red Solidaria
 program, it is expected that this component will benefit 
about 100,000 families and roughly 300,000 children over the period of the project.   
 
1
While household co-responsibilities are still to be fully defined, they are likely to include such criteria as ensuring 
that: (i) children attend school through 6
th
 grade; (ii) mothers and children seek and obtain basic primary health care 
and nutritional services; and (iii) designated household members attend selected workshops and training programs to 
promote better childcare, home hygiene, healthy food preparation and consumption, etc. 
Page  4
DRAFT 
II. Ensuring Provision of Basic Services
.
Recent experience indicates that to maximize the impact of 
CCTs on human capital outcomes, there must be an adequate supply of the relevant education and health 
services.  This component will thus support extension and strengthening of basic health and nutritional 
services in the 100 poorest municipalities where the conditional cash transfer program will be 
implemented.  The project will support the availability of an agreed protocol for primary health services, 
including nutrition programs, by expanding coverage of the basic package of health services, including 
the strengthening of nutritional interventions based on the AIN-C model.  The health and nutrition 
component will build on and complement ongoing operations by the IDB and World Bank supporting the 
provision of basic health services.  The ongoing operations are expected to provide services to roughly 40 
of the 100 poorest municipalities targeted under the 
Red Solidaria
;
service gaps in the remaining 
municipalities would be served under this component.
2
III. Strengthening Legal Access to Services through the Civil Registry
.
Basic education and health 
services are available, legally, to Salvadorans by virtue of being registered as citizens of El Salvador.  
Yet, many of the poorest Salvadorans lack the requisite identification and documentation.  This 
component will promote greater legal access to basic education and health services of 
Red Solidaria
 
beneficiaries through their obtaining legal recognition through the civil registry system.  Specifically, this 
component will focus on ensuring that all members of participating families are incorporated in the 
national civil registry system and posses adequate personal identification documents (e.g., birth 
certificates, identity cards) to have the proper legal basis for basic service access.   
 
IV. Institutional Capacity-Building and Project Management.  
This component will provide 
institutional strengtheni
ng
to the agencies involved in implementing the Government’s program, most 
specifically to the Social Fund for Local Development (FISDL) and the Technical Secretariat of the 
Presidency (STP). The Project will support the GOES in implementing a new and innovative intervention 
in El Salvador, one that, at present, does not have an institutional structure.  In this context, this 
component will allocate a significant proportion of its resources to finance and provide technical 
assistance for building institutional capacity, establishing inter-institutional coordination mechanisms, and 
developing monitoring and evaluation tools.  Because implementation of the government program (and 
this Project) involves the establishment of new institutional capacity, it is expected that at the beginning 
the operational costs will be higher than international norms.  As part of this component, the Project will 
also finance and provide technical support for a comprehensive implementation, monitoring and 
evaluation system with four prongs: (i) a system for targeting and assessing the eligibility for participation 
in the 
Red Solidaria
,
including of a Beneficiary List; (ii) a management information system to track 
Project’s physical and financial progress during implementation; (iii) a supervision mechanism to verify 
families’ fulfillment of their co-responsibilities under the cash transfer component; and (iv) an external 
impact evaluation, carried out on the basis of a baseline and follow-up surveys.
3
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements.  
The STP will serve as Chair of the 
Red Solidaria
’s 
National Directorate.  As such it will have ultimate responsibility for the general coordination, 
supervision, and monitoring of this Project. The FISDL has been designated by the GOES as the 
executing agency for the 
Red Solidaria 
and, as such, will be the implementation agency of the CCT 
component of the Project.  In this context, the FISDL is being restructured to address the operational 
2
This health and nutrition component is part of a broa
der set of “supply side” interventions being undertaken as part 
of the 
Red Solidaria
 that include:  (i) the expansion and strengthening of primary education services in the poorest 
areas, and (ii) investments in improved water and sanitation services at education and health facilities in the 
country’s poorest municipalities.  As noted in the text, the education, water and sanitation investments are being 
supported separately and in a coordinated manner via IDB financing. 
3
The baseline, which builds in part the Poverty Map, is being refined and expected to be available before the Project 
start-up. 
Page  5
DRAFT 
requirements of the CCT component.  The FISDL will also carry out technical coordination with the 
Ministries of Education and Health, the other central implementing agencies, and the local governments 
who will be responsible for various elements of the Project.  For example, the health and nutrition service 
component of the Project will be implemented by the Ministry of Health, while the Civil Registry 
Component will be implemented by the 
Registro de Personas Naturales
,
etc., with interagency 
coordination done by the FISDL and overall supervision being carried out by the STP.
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
A
social assessment will be conducted.  Within this assessment, it will be determined if the safeguard 
policy related to indigenous peoples is applicable and a plan will be developed if necessary. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK 
50 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
35 
 Total 
85 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Andrew D. Mason 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-0295 
Fax: (202) 522-0050 
Email: Amason@worldbank.org
 
