Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1747 
Project Name 
Social Protection project 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Other social services (100%) 
Project ID 
P088642 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF EL SALVADOR 
Implementing Agency 
 
FISDL - Fondo de Inversi 
10a. Av. Sur y Calle M 
Barrio San Jacinto, frente Casa Presiden 
El Salvador 
Tel: (503) 237-0122 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
July 14, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
August 22, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
October 27, 2005 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
1. 
Country and sector issues 
 
The Government of El Salvador (GOES) faces a critical challenge:  strengthening the 
human capital of the poorest Salvadorans so they can participate in and benefit from the 
country’s broader socio-economic progress.  
According to the recent Poverty Assessment for 
El Salvador
1
,
the poorest Salvadorans (about 15 percent of the population) have not been able to 
take advantage of recent socio-economic progress, due in large part to their low levels of human 
capital. Over one-fifth of primary school-aged children from the poorest families either did not 
attend school or were below the appropriate grade for their age in 2002; less than half of the poor 
children who do enroll in primary school graduate from 6
th
 grade.  Chronic malnutrition levels 
are 40 percent higher among the poor than the non-poor, while infant mortality rates are almost 
twice as high among the poor than the non-poor.  To reduce poverty in a sustainable manner, 
therefore, ongoing efforts to promote economic growth and increase household incomes must be 
complemented by targeted actions to address insufficient schooling, child malnutrition, and 
inadequate health status among the poorest families.  
 
Meeting this challenge requires an integrated, multi-sectoral approach to developing the 
human capital of the poorest Salvadorans.  
Indeed, the extreme poor in El Salvador face 
multiple barriers to accessing basic social services and, thus, to building their human capital. 
These include:  demand-side obstacles (e.g, low incomes, direct and opportunity costs of service 
1
The World Bank (2004) 
El Salvador Poverty Assessment: Strengthening Social Policy
,
Report No. 29594-SV, June 
30, 2004. 
Page  2
access), supply-side barriers (e.g, availability and quality of basic social services), legal 
impediments (e.g, lack of legal documentation needed for service access), and poor physical 
access (e.g., inadequate basic infrastructure such as roads, bridges, transportation, etc.). Building 
the human capital of children under the age of 15 warrants special attention.  First, children 
under 15 represent more than one-third of the Salvadoran population, nearly 40 percent of rural 
residents, and the majority of poor Salvadorans.  Second, investing in the human capital of 
children provides high social and economic returns. Thus, focusing on strengthening the human 
capital of this group is essential; both to improving the wellbeing of the very poor and to 
promoting sustained poverty reduction in El Salvador. 
 
The challenge of strengthening the human capital of the poor is now being addressed by the 
Red Solidaria
 program, a new initiative that is at the core of El Salvador’s poverty 
reduction and social protection strategy.
2
Indeed, the 
Red Solidaria
,
which constitutes an 
important development in El Salvador’s social policy, includes a number of important measures 
to assist the poorest Salvadorans in improving their human capital.  This includes targeted efforts 
to: strengthen poor families’ demand for education, health, and nutrition services via a 
conditional cash transfer program; strengthen the provision of basic services, eliminate legal 
barriers to social service access, and break down infrastructure-based impediments.  The Project 
discussed in this PAD is designed to support the GOES in the design, implementation, and 
financing of the 
Red Solidaria
.
Main Country Issues 
El Salvador experienced a major political, economic and social transition during the 1990s, 
following the end of the civil war in 1991.  Many important socio-economic gains have been 
registered in the decade-plus since the return to peace.
 
The economy grew by an impressive 
6
percent per year from 1990-1995 and, then, by an average rate of 2.8 percent from 1996-2002.  
Moreover, economic growth, coupled with reforms in some key social sectors and increases in 
social spending in the second half of the decade, has contributed to substantial reductions in 
poverty and improvements in basic socio-economic indicators over the period (Annex Table 1.1).  
Indeed, the poverty headcount has fallen by more than one-third; education levels have risen; 
access to basic services, such as safe water, has increased; and basic health and nutrition 
outcomes, such as life expectancy, infant and child mortality, and child nutrition have all 
improved.  In several areas, including in basic education, infant mortality, and access to potable 
water, the gaps between the poor and the non-poor have also declined over the period.   
 
Notwithstanding recent progress, El Salvador faces important challenges moving forward.
 
From the perspective of reducing poverty, a key challenge relates to the fact that the extreme 
poor – roughly 15 percent of the population in 2002 – have not benefited proportionately from 
the recent socio-economic progress, and remain at risk of falling even further behind.
3
Since 
extreme poverty in El Salvador is disproportionately rural – nearly two thirds of the extreme 
poor live in rural areas – those living in poor, remote rural areas are particularly vulnerable.  
Analysis based on a new Poverty Map for El Salvador developed with World Bank support 
indicates that poverty has a strong spatial dimension, with extreme poverty rates being 
particularly high in the 100 poorest municipalities.  In these areas of the country, where extreme 
2
The Red Solidaria program was launched on March 5, 2005, by Presidential Decree No. 45. 
3
For further details on El Salvador’s economic challenges, see Annex 1 and World Bank 2004. 
Page  3
poverty rates are over 40 percent, adults have an average of only three years of schooling, and 
chronic malnutrition rates among children under 5 are as much as 40 percent higher than the 
national average.  In this context, a key finding of the recent World Bank Poverty Assessment for 
El Salvador (2004) is that many of the extreme poor have not been able to take advantage of 
recent socio-economic progress in the country 
due
in large part to low levels of human capital
.
Main Sector Issues 
The findings of the Poverty Assessment suggest that special measures 
–
beyond the 
traditional programs of the education and health ministries – are warranted to strengthen 
the human capital of the poorest Salvadorans to ensure that they have the capacity to take 
advantage of future socio-economic progress.
 
Analysis of the relevant sectors highlights 
several key constraints that poor Salvadorans face vis-
à-vis improving their access to basic 
education, health and nutrition services and strengthening their human capital.  Indeed, the 
collection of evidence highlights the value of developing an integrated safety net program that 
can help to ensure that the poorest families in the poorest municipalities have access to basic 
education, health, and nutritional services.  
 
Evidence from the 
education
 sector indicates that low household incomes and concerns 
about affordability (i.e., demand side constraints) are critical barriers to attaining a basic 
education, as are issues of education quality and relevance
.
In this context, successive 
Salvadoran administrations have worked – and continue to work – to extend coverage and 
improve quality of basic education, including through the current Government’s education 
strategy, Plan 2021.  Nonetheless, data from El Salvador’s 2002 National Household Survey 
(EHPM) indicate that 40 percent of Salvadoran youth who do not attend school fail to do so 
because they cannot afford it (either that it was too expensive, they had to work, or due to direct 
costs of transportation, materials, or contributions to school activities).  While the GOES has 
implemented several programs to reduce demand constraints to education, in general these 
programs have tended to focus on secondary or higher education rather than on access to basic 
education by the poorest Salvadorans.  Evidence suggests that such measures hold significant 
potential to improve schooling outcomes among the poor in El Salvador. 
 
In 
health and nutrition
,
the evidence suggests a combination of demand and supply side 
factors are also important.
 
On the supply side, despite considerable government efforts to 
strengthen the organization and delivery of health services to expand coverage and improve 
service quality, as well as efforts to increase access to basic health and nutrition services by the 
poor, El Salvador still faces significant challenges in its efforts to improve health and nutritional 
outcomes among the extreme poor.  Household survey data indicates that service quality is 
considered poor, due to insufficient and inadequately trained staff, long waiting periods, and 
irregular availability of medicines.  Service outreach and delivery to combat chronic malnutrition 
also needs to be strengthened – by moving away from traditional programs that focus on food 
distribution and toward community-based programs oriented toward improving family 
knowledge and nutritional practices, promoting child growth, and preventing malnutrition.  On 
the demand side, one quarter of the poor and nearly one third of the extreme poor report that they 
do not seek health services from Ministry of Health (MSPAS) facilities due to the financial costs 
(World Bank 2004).   Indeed, both supply and demand side measures will be needed to ensure 
Page  4
that the poorest Salvadorans, especially those in remote rural areas, have adequate access to a 
basic package of health and nutritional services. 
 
Many poor Salvadorans, especially those from remote rural areas, lack 
proper identification 
and, formal legal status
,
which create legal impediments to basic service access.  
An 
estimated 20-25 percent of people living in isolated rural areas of El Salvador lack identity cards, 
and a larger proportion lack birth certificates.  This lack of legal identification is an important 
impediment to access to basic services, as well as to other types of government benefits.  
Moreover, the problem is most pressing in the poorest, more remote areas of the country.  In 
spite of recent government efforts to strengthen the National Civil Registry (RNPN), there 
remains the need to strengthen its institutional capacity as well as its data, monitoring and 
verification systems to ensure that all Salvadorans receive legal identification, such as identity 
cards or birth certificates. 
 
Until recently, El Salvador did not have a coherent or coordinated program (e.g., a safety 
net) to support to the poorest families in participating more fully in 
–
and benefiting from – 
the country’s socio-economic progress.  
A
recent Assessment of El Salvador’s safety net 
(World Bank 2002) found, for example, that in 2000 the country implemented a number of 
mostly small, uncoordinated safety net-type interventions – programs that, with a few 
exceptions, had limited outreach and impact.  The Assessment found clear scope for 
strengthening the social safety net in El Salvador – through allocation of additional public 
resources to effective safety net programs and through the development of a coherent national-
level program to support the poorest Salvadorans in strengthening their human capital via better 
basic service access.  Indeed, a key conclusion of the recent World Bank Poverty Assessment 
(2004) is that safety nets programs that enable the extreme poor to strengthen their human capital 
–
and thus to participate more fully in economic progress – should be a central element of the 
country’s poverty reduction strategy.  Such a strategy should operate alongside line ministry 
programs and be viewed as a complement to – not a substitute for – more traditional sectoral 
approaches aimed at strengthening the human capital of all Salvadorans.   
 
Government Strategy 
The current GOES administration came to power in June 2004 with a platform that 
emphasized further poverty reduction and social progress.
 
Indeed, development of a 
program to strengthen the human capital of the poorest Salvadorans and to enhance their abilities 
to participate in and benefit from broader economic progress has been a core element of the 
administration’s social policy.  In this context, in March 2005, the GOES launched the 
Red 
Solidaria
 Program, an integrated program of targeted investments aimed at strengthening the 
capacity, productivity, and income of the extreme poor.  To achieve its aims, the program 
focuses on addressing both demand- and supply-side barriers to basic social service access 
among the poorest Salvadorans living in rural areas.  In focusing on strengthening the human 
capital of the poorest Salvadorans, the objectives of the program include:  (i) ensuring access to 
basic education from pre-school through 6
th
 grade; (ii) ensuring access to a package of basic 
health and nutrition services, with special emphasis on the health and well-being of young 
children and mothers; and (iii) improving poor children’s nutritional status.  The program also 
includes initiatives to improve the productivity and incomes of the poorest Salvadoran 
households.   
Page  5
To achieve its goals, the 
Red Solidaria
 program is designed as an integrated, multi-sectoral 
strategy with three main prongs.  
The first two prongs focus on strengthening the human 
capital of the poor.  Specifically: 
 
·
Red Solidaria a la Familia
 (Family Solidarity Network) will establish a program of 
conditional cash transfers (CCT) for the most disadvantaged Salvadoran families living in 
the 100 poorest municipalities.  These transfers, paid to the mother of the family, will be 
made in return for th
e
family fulfilling a series of “co-responsibilities” that involve 
sending primary school-aged children to school and completing a number of preventive 
health and nutrition measures (e.g., immunization, child growth monitoring, etc.). 
·
Red de Servicios Básicos
 (Network of Basic Services) is being designed to complement 
and enhance the efficacy of the CCT program by strengthening the provision of Basic 
education, health, and nutritional services in El Salvador’s poorest 100 rural 
municipalities.  The 
Red de S
ervicios Básicos
 also includes strategic infrastructure 
investments in the poorest municipalities, including (i) investments in potable water, 
sanitation facilities, and electricity for rural primary schools and public health units, and 
(ii) investment in roads, bridges and other infrastructure to facilitate greater (less costly) 
access to schools and health service facilities by the extreme poor in these areas. 
 
The third prong focuses on efforts to increase the productivity and incomes of the extreme poor.  
Specifically: 
 
·
Red de Sostenibilidad a la Familia 
(Family Sustainability Network) will involve small 
scale productive projects and micro-credit programs to support poor agricultural 
producers in the 100 municipalities in increasing their economic productivity and 
incomes, diversifying their incomes sources, and improving their economic management.   
 
These activities are being complemented by a 2-year campaign to enhance legal security and 
legal access to basic services through the provision of birth certificates and/or other forms of 
legal identification to those families in the poorest 100 municipalities who lack such 
identification.   
 
At the request of the GOES, the World Bank and the IDB are providing technical support as well 
as partial financing for the first two prongs of the program, along with support for GOES efforts 
under the 
Red Solidaria
 to enhance the legal security of the poor.  
 
2. Objectives 
 
The Project development objective is to improve the education, health, and nutrition of 
Salvadoran children living in the rural areas of 100 poorest municipalities.
 
Specifically, the 
Project will support the government’s efforts to expand the 
Red Solidaria
 Program to 80,000 
families living in rural areas of extremely poor municipalities over a five-year period.  In this 
context, it is expected that as a result of the Program:  (i) net school enrollment will increase by 6 
percentages points; (ii) children who receive a complete set of immunizations will increase by 5 
Page  6
percentages points; and (iii) the incidence of malnutrition rate 
(measured as underweight 
rates) will decline by 4
 percentage points, in the Project area, by the end of the Project.   
Increasing the human capital of children from the poorest Salvadoran households will enhance 
their ability to participate in and benefit from future socio-economic progress (as youth and 
adults), thus helping to reduce the inter-generational transfer of poverty. 
 
To achieve its development objective, the Project will support the GOES in realizing 
several key intermediate outcomes, specifically:
 
(i) implementing and scaling-up a 
conditional a cash transfer (CCT) program targeted to families living in extreme poverty in the 
country’s 100 poorest municipalities; (ii) extending provision and improving the quality of a 
basic package of health and nutrition services in these municipalities; (iii) ensuring that poor 
Salvadorans living in the targeted municipalities have 
legal
 access to services, by making sure 
that they possess the requisite legal documentation, such as birth certificates and/or official 
identification cards; and (iv) strengthening the capacity of the Salvadoran institutions charged 
with implementing the CCT program in the context of the 
Red Solidaria
 Program.   
 
The proposed operation is strongly consistent with the current Country Assistance Strategy 
for El Salvador.
 
The El Salvador CAS proposes to provide support to the three main pillars of 
the GOES 2004-2009 Development Plan: (i) accelerating broad-based, equitable economic 
growth and increasing employment; (ii) improving equity through building human capital and 
enhancing access to basic socio-economic infrastructure, assets, and markets; and (iii) enhancing 
security and reducing vulnerability.  T
he Project will support two of the CAS’s main pillars.  For 
example, the proposed Operation is at the core of Pillar 2, focused on supporting government’s 
efforts to modernize education and build a knowledge society, improve quality and coverage of 
health services, carry out sub-national strategies to expand access to basic social and economic 
infrastructure, and strengthen family assets. The Project also supports Pillar 3 of the GOES 
Development Plan through promoting a more coherent, effective social safety net, greater family 
responsibility (through program “co-responsibilities”), and improved quality of life through 
strengthened human capital. As noted above, the Project is coordinated with other World Bank 
operations being developed or implemented under the CAS, thus complementing several World 
Bank operations in education and health as well as the Development Policy Loans. 
 
Strengthening El Salvador’s social safety net is a core element of the GOES poverty 
reduction strategy and a critical element in the country’s efforts to attain the MDGs.
 
The 
Government has launched the 
Red Solidaria
 program that, consistent with recent World Bank 
analytical work, focuses on an integrated approach to strengthening the human capital of the 
poorest Salvadorans living in rural areas.  In its efforts to ensure access to basic education from 
pre-school through 6
th
 grade, ensure access to a package of health and nutrition services focused 
on the well-being of young children and mothers, and improve child nutrition, it will, at the same 
time, contribute to progress toward attaining several key MDGs. Specifically, this Project will 
support GOES efforts to meet four key MDGs, including: (i) Goal 1, reducing poverty and child 
malnutrition by half; (ii) Goal 2, achieving universal primary education; (iii) Goal 4, reducing 
child mortality by two thirds; and (iv) Goal 5, improving maternal health. 
 
The 
Red Solidaria
 program comprises an important first step in the development of a 
comprehensive social protection strategy for El Salvador. 
The Project will support 
government’s efforts to develop the 
Red Solidaria
,
an multi-sectoral human development 
Page  7
strategy that is well-
integrated into the Government’s National Social and Economic Plan . By 
focusing on the development of a safety net that emphasizes human capital development, the 
program provides an important foundation for long-term and sustained poverty reduction.  
Moreover, the Project will work to strengthen the institutional capacity of several Central 
Government agencies – to direct, coordinate, and carry out a multi-faceted, multi-sectoral social 
policy, starting with the country’s 100 poorest municipalities. These institutional mechanisms, 
that are being developed and strengthened during Project preparation and implementation, will 
enhance government’s capacity to broaden and scale-up its poverty reduction and social 
protection efforts in the future. This program is fostering the commitment of officials at the 
highest levels of the Salvadoran Government, both in the Presidency and across a number of 
relevant ministries and agencies and, as such, will serve as a model for future inter-ministerial 
and inter-agency coordination in the pursuit of high-level development goals.  
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The proposed operation is the natural next step in the Bank’s ongoing collaboration with 
the government on poverty reduction and social policy.
 The World Bank and the GOES have 
been collaborating on poverty and social policy issues, including human capital development and 
social protection, for several years.  The most recent round of activities began in the aftermath of 
the 2001 earthquakes when the government asked the Bank to analyze the poverty and social 
situation in the country. In this context, the Bank initiated an analytical program that generated 
two policy notes in 2002:  one on poverty and social spending, the other on strengthening El 
Salvador’s social safety net.  These policy notes generated demand from the GOES for a full-
blown Poverty Assessment focused on strengthening social policy, as well as for technical 
assistance focused on developing a Poverty Map that would enable better targeting of the 
Government’s poverty-oriented interventions. Several key findings and messages of the Poverty 
Assessment – including those related to the development of a stronger safety net – served to 
deepen the Bank’s dialogue with the GOES and helped to create the impetus for cooperation on 
social policy at the operational level.  The proposed Project builds on the recent analytical work 
and on the dialogue, as the logical next step of this ongoing GOES-Bank collaboration. 
 
This project will provide support to the Government of El Salvador’s most important 
social initiative –the 
Red Solidaria 
Program.
 
Since the 
Red Solidaria 
is a new program, good 
design and sound institutional arrangements will be critical to its success.  In this context, the 
Project will support the design of key components as well as the establishment of the 
institutional mechanisms and capacity to carry out this innovative program that includes both 
demand and supply-side interventions, and involves several different line ministries and central 
government agencies. In terms of financing, the World Bank’s participation is relatively small 
compared to the total cost of the initiative; the World Bank loan will be equivalent to less than 20 
percent of total 
Red Solidaria
 financing.
4
Nonetheless, World Bank financial support will be 
leveraged through the provision of crucial technical inputs, building on extensive analytical 
work, and on knowledge of recent international experience and best practice regarding: the 
development of conditional cash transfer programs, the design and implementation of successful 
4
The project will be a five-year joint operation financed by the World Bank ($21 million), the IDB ($57 million) 
and GOES ($88.8 million) for a total of $166.8 million. 
Page  8
program targeting mechanisms, and the establishment of the appropriate institutional 
mechanisms to foster a successful multi-sectoral program.  
 
Project preparation and proposed implementation are being carried out jointly with the 
IDB.   This approach directly supports GOES efforts to strengthen donor coordination 
while building a more coherent social policy.  
The proposed Project is part of a broader GOES 
effort to establish an integrated social protection strategy, closely linked to ongoing efforts in 
health, nutrition, and education.  Specifically, the project will help improve social services to 
extremely poor and vulnerable infants, school age children and mothers as the core of a social 
protection strategy.  The integrated, multi-sectoral design of this effort also helps the GOES to 
consolidate its social policy in the medium term by providing a framework through which to 
align diverse sector interventions financed by both Banks (and other donors) under a unified set 
of social policy goals. For example, this Operation is closely linked to the IDB’s primary 
education project (in preparation), USAID’s support for improving El Salvador’s nutrition 
strategies, and KfW’s support to strengthen rural infrastructure. Within the World Bank, the 
Project builds on and complements other operations in education and health,
5
helping to ensure a 
coherent approach to long-term human capital development in El Salvador as part of the Bank’s 
Country Assistance Strategy.   
 
4. Description 
 
The Project is comprised of 4 components that will support implementation of the Salvadoran 
Government’s 
Red Solidaria
 Program, as noted above.  The first component involves the 
establishment and implementation of a conditional cash transfer (CCT) program, to support 
additional investment in children’s education, health, and nutrition by El Salvador’s poorest 
households.  This demand-side intervention will be complemented by a supply-side intervention, 
component 2, to ensure the provision of a basic package of health and nutrition services in El 
Salvador’s 100 poorest municipalities.  The third component of the Project focuses on improving 
legal access to services among the country’s poorest families by ensuring that both children and 
adults have the necessary legal documentation.  Component 4 focuses on monitoring, supervision 
and evaluation of Project outcomes, including measures to assure effective management of the 
Government’s 
Red Solidaria
 Program.   
 
Component I. Conditional Cash Transfer Program (US$63.6 million financed by 
government counterpart funds). 
This component would support the implementation of a 
conditional cash transfer program to encourage extremely poor families to send their children 5-
15 years old to pre-school and primary education, maintain the full immunization “package” in 
children younger than 5 years, and regularly monitor the growth and development of children 
aged 0-24 months. The conditional cash transfers component constitutes the core element of the 
first phase of the 
Red Solidaria
,
and it will be implemented through the FISDL under the 
coordination and supervision of the STP, which is the chair of the 
Red Solidaria
’s National 
Board (policy tier) and holds the executive direction of the program. Implementing the CCTs 
requires close coordination and active participation from the Ministries of Education and Health 
to ensure the timely delivery of quality services, essential for program impact and for families to 
5
The ongoing RHESSA project in health and the EXITO project in education, in preparation. 
Page  9
comply with their co-responsibilities. The Ministries of Education and Health have participated 
fully in the design and preparation of 
Red Solidaria
,
and they have adjusted their sector 
development plans to match 
Red Solidaria
’s goals and targets.  
 
The component consists of three subcomponents which support these goals: (A) Conditional 
Transfers; (B) Support to Beneficiaries; and (C) Institutional Strengthening of FISDL. 
 
A.
 
Conditional Transfers 
(
US$51.4 million).
 
This subcomponent would support and 
finance a CCT program for eligible families living in the rural areas of the poorest 100 
municipalities and is expected to benefit up to 100,000 families and roughly 300,000 children 
over the life of the project.  Selected families will receive one or both transfers for up to three 
years. Families with children under 5 years of age only would be eligible for a health and 
nutrition transfer currently set at 15 dollars monthly regardless of the number of children.  
Families living in rural areas of the 100 poorest municipalities with children older than 5 and 
younger than 15 years of age only, attending primary school would be eligible for an education 
transfer of ten dollars, regardless of the number of children. Families that qualify for both types 
of transfer will receive two transfers of 10 dollars each in only one payment. In all cases, 
transfers will be conditional on beneficiary compliance with specific co-responsibilities, which 
should be met independently.  
 
Beneficiary families will receive the education transfer as long as all children older than 5 and 
younger than 15 (who have not already completed primary education) are enrolled in primary 
school and maintain a class attendance rate of 80 percent.
6
The health and nutrition transfer 
would require that households fulfill the separate co-responsibilities, specifically that:  (i) parents 
assure that all children under 5 are fully immunized under the established health protocols; and  
(ii) that children under 5, as well as pregnant mothers, participate in regular health and nutrition 
monitoring, again according to the established health and nutrition protocols.
7
The program, 
through the support offered by the specialized NGOs, will also encourage mothers to participate 
in workshops and training programs to promote better childcare, home hygiene, healthy food 
preparation and consumption, and so on. 
 
The value of the combined transfer per family is about 15-17 percent of the average income of 
rural households. This proportion is in the range of those used in most other successful CCT 
programs in the Latin America region – amounts that have been demonstrated to have a 
sufficient incentive for families to send their children to school and to regularly attend child 
growth monitoring sessions, yet sufficiently low to avoid distorting labor market decisions. 
 
Targeting of beneficiary families will be based on the combination of two mechanisms: 
geographical targeting to identifying the poorest municipalities (100) and proxy means testing to 
select the poorest families (about 80,000). Two sets of municipalities were defined within the 
100 targeted through the poverty map: 32 municipalities characterized as severe extremely poor 
municipalities (i.e., the poorest of the poor) and 68 municipalities considered as high extremely 
6
This translates into no more than 4 days of unjustified school absence per month. 
7
In the case of health and nutrition, transfers to eligible families would be suspended either:  (i) if a family were 
unsuccessful in fulfilling 
either 
co-responsibilities in the same month; or (ii) if a family were unsuccessful in 
fulfilling one (or the other) co-responsibility during two consecutive months.  
Page  10
poor municipalities. In the 32 municipalities, given their high poverty incidence (on average 
around 75 percent including urban areas) all rural families with children younger than 15 years 
of age will be eligible for the conditional cash transfer program. The selection of families in the 
remaining 68 municipalities where poverty incidence is lower (on average about 60 percent) will 
follow the results of a proxy means test developed and tested during project preparation and 
financed under the PHRD grant.   
 
To improve transparency and guarantee the timely delivery of the benefit to beneficiaries, 
transfer payments will be made through the Salvadoran banking system. A recent assessment of 
available banking services in the targeted area showed that it is very likely that the program will 
need to use the services of several banking institutions to cover all municipalities and 
communities. It may increase the administrative cost of the subcomponent (to up to 2 percent) 
and require from the FISDL additional control and payment authorization to disburse transfers to 
families. 
 
Given the administrative complexity of CCTs, the program will be scaled up gradually, in two 
phases. By the end of 2006 (first year of project implementation) the program will cover the 
poorest 32 municipalities of the 100 municipalities in the target group.  It is expected that 
families from the 15 poorest municipalities (about 20,000) will be registered in the program by 
the end of 2005. It is estimated that up to 40,000 families will receive benefits in the first phase. 
From 2007 on, the program will incorporate about 60,000 additional families residing in the 
remaining 68 municipalities (see table A.4.1). In order to guarantee the future sustainability of 
the program, transfers to families would be financed with government counterpart funds only, 
administered by FISDL under the general coordination of the STP.  
 
B. 
Support to Beneficiary families (US$5.2 million)
.
This subcomponent will finance 
activities to help beneficiary families to participate in and obtain the maximum benefit from the 
CCT program. This support will be provided by NGOs specializing in community development, 
in close coordination with social service providers (e.g., health, education) at the local level.  
FISDL will serve as the contracting agency for the NGOs.    
 
As part of the support to beneficiary families, the NGOs will:  (i) assist families in understanding 
Program objectives and regulations; (ii) support families in more remote communities to obtain 
their transfers; (iii) help families to understand and fulfill their co-responsibilities, including 
identifying barriers to compliance and supporting beneficiary families in overcoming them; and 
(iii) provide training and workshops in several substantive areas related to the CCT, such as on 
preventative health and nutrition, the value of regular school attendance, the costs of child labor, 
and on social audit of basic services. Trainings and workshops will be planned and offered in 
coordination with social service providers in education and health.  
 
Selected NGOs will support the FISDL with the program implementation process at the local 
level through:    
 
·
organizing community assemblies to validate information entered in the registry of 
beneficiaries (
padron de beneficiarios
), sign the agreements of co-responsibilities between 
families and FISDL, formally incorporate families in the 
Red Solidaria
,
and identifying 
Page  11
madres titulares
,
mothers who will sign the Program co-responsibility agreements, claim the 
bimonthly payments, attend the regular workshops, etc.; 
·
helping to establish 
Red Solidaria
 community committees to ensure adequate communication 
between beneficiary families, their communities, and the Program, including the channeling 
of requests and/or grievances and facilitation of the social audit process; and   
·
ensuring that relevant family information is up-to-date in the 
Red Solidaria
 information 
system. 
 
C. 
Institutional Strengthening of FISDL (US$7.0 million)
.
This subcomponent would 
strengthen the capacity of FISDL to: (i) manage the conditional cash transfers, (ii) manage the 
resources for Project components 3 and 4; and (iii) manage the infrastructure subprojects that 
will complement the work of this Project (and that will be financed by the IDB).  The FISDL 
will operate under the general coordination and supervision of the STP which, itself, is engaged 
in efforts to strengthen its capacity for coordination, supervision, and monitoring (efforts that 
will be continued under component 4 of the Project). This subcomponent will include technical 
support, training, development of information systems and equipment. The design of the 
abovementioned systems is being implemented as part of project preparation and financed by the 
PHRD grant as well as IDB technical assistance. 
 
Proper management of the CCTs is critical to program success.  The Project will support 
FISDL’s capacity to manage the transfers by strengthening the institutional framework and 
operational capacity of FISDL, including internal norms and regulations
,
operational guidelines, 
and coordination mechanisms.  It will also strengthen the technical capacity of FISDL by 
creating and consolidating within its administrative structure the following tools for CCT 
management:   (i) a system for targeting 
Red Solidaria
 beneficiaries, based on both an updated 
poverty map and a proxy means test mechanism; (ii) a beneficiary registry to include families 
selected to receive direct transfers; (iii) a monitoring system for verifying compliance of co-
responsibilities, controlling payments to beneficiary families, and generating managerial reports 
and progress indicators; (iv) a system to track the project’s physical and financial progress during 
implementation, (v) a process evaluation system to monitor the operational processes of the 
CCTs and introduce timely adjustments to fine-tune implementation, and (vi) an ongoing system 
of spot checks of Project operations to validate the data collected for the Project, in particular 
regarding compliance with co-responsibilities, and the efficiency of operational systems. Given 
the importance of ensuring that these tools are in place prior to the start of the conditional cash 
transfers distribution, the systems’ design and initial implementation are being financed by both 
the PHRD grant and an IDB technical assistance grant. 
 
The institutional strengthening efforts of the FISDL for CCT implementation have already led to 
improved coordination between the FISDL and the STP (i.e., between the coordination and 
implementation tiers) as well as between the FISDL and the other implementing agencies, such 
as the Ministries of Education and Health and the Civil Registry (RNPN).  This process of 
institutional strengthening is critical, since the impact of the CCTs will depend on the adequacy 
and effectiveness of inter-agency coordination, both among the implementing agencies and 
across the different institutional tiers. 
Page  12
The main results indicators for Component 1 will be that
:
(i) 80.000 extremely poor families 
receive regular conditional cash transfers; and (ii) 85 percent of beneficiary families will meet 
their education and health co-responsibilities regularly.  
Component II.   Expanding Provision of Basic Health and Nutrition Services ($15.0 million 
World Bank financing; $20 million total external financing)
.
This component will support 
the expansion of the existing basic package of maternal and child health services, and the 
strengthening of nutritional interventions based on the AIN-C integrated community nutrition 
model in the 100 poorest municipalities where the conditional cash transfer program will be 
implemented.  This component supports the MSPAS to expand coverage of a single package of 
basic health and nutrition services in the 100 municipalities of the Red Solidaria. To do this, it 
will complement the service provision supported by ongoing World Bank (RHESSA) and IDB 
(PAM) projects, and will close coverage gaps in those municipalities that are not served by the 
ongoing projects. Service provision will be contracted out to NGOs, and after December 2006, 
when the IDB’s PAM project ends, a single unit within the MSPAS will be responsible for the 
provision (through NGOs) of the service in the 100 municipalities. 
 
The activities to be supported by this component include the provision of a single package of 
basic health and nutrition services and extending provision to reach universal coverage of the 
100 targeted municipalities of Red Solidaria; implementing the basic package the AIN-C 
strategy; and strengthening the supervision scheme. The project would finance (i) contracting out 
of the service provision to NGOs to ensure universal coverage of a single package of basic health 
and nutrition services in the 100 Red Solidaria municipalities, and (ii) activities to institutional 
strengthening MSPAS’s capacity to supervise NGOs. 
 
i) Ensuring provision of a single basic package of health and nutrition services
.
8
The main 
focus of this package is the provision of maternal and child care services and constitutes the 
supply-side complement to the CCTs. The package includes the following interventions
9
(i) 
maternal care, (ii) sexual and reproductive health, including family planning and the control of 
sexually transmitted diseases, (iii) child health (for children under 5 years), child nutrition and 
development; (iv) health education, detection and treatment of the most prevalent communicable 
diseases and (v) detection and referral of the most prevalent and non-communicable diseases in 
adults.  In this framework, even though the main focus of the extension of health services under 
this project is on maternal and child health, the package will finance other health activities, 
consistent to those currently provided through ongoing operations
10
.
Services will be provided by NGOs contracted by the MSPAS. The NGOs will provide services 
through at least: (a) a mobile team composed by a doctor, a nurse and/or an auxiliary nurse. This 
team will visit the communities at least once a month; (b) a support team composed  at least by a 
nutritionist and a public health expert/ project coordinator; (c) a local health worker (
promotor de 
8
The BPHS (Basic package of health service) content is aligned with the PBHS agreed under the WB RHESSA 
project to ensure coherence in service delivery. See Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction and Health Service 
Extension Project, Project Appraisal Document (Report NO. 22626-ES), October 31, 2001. 
 
9
If necessary, the Ministry of Health will complement the financing of other health activities in order to ensure 
provision of a complete package of services.  
10
 A more detailed description of interventions included in the health care package is presented in Annex 4 
Page  13
salud
), based in the communities. The 
promotor de salud
 will visit each family within the 
community periodically in order to identify major health risks at the community level.  
 
In addition, the basic package of health and nutrition services will be strengthened to fully 
incorporate the AIN-C model. The strategy is based on community volunteers (
monitores
)
who 
monitor the growth of children under two years old, counsel mothers on proper care for their 
babies and toddlers, and advise and monitor pregnant and lactating women. The 
promotores de 
salud and the mobile nurses
 will provide support and supervision to the 
monitores
 and provide 
preventive and curative primary health care services to children under age five. In those 
municipalities currently supported by the RHESSA program, the RHESSA program will finance 
the implementation of the AIN-C strategy through the same NGOs that are providing the 
package of health services.  
 
ii) Strengthening 
MSPAS’s supervision capacity.
 
The project will strengthen the SIBASI’s 
capacity to supervise the NGOs. To do so, it will finance complementary technical assistance, 
training, the purchase of IT, transport equipment and mobilization operating costs. The 
supervision manual will define more precisely the financing needs of each SIBASI in order to 
strengthen supervision,  
 
The main results indicator for Component 2 will be that
:
100 percent of villages (
caserios
)
within the target areas will be covered with the basic package of health and 
nutritional services by the third year of Project implementation. 
 
Component III.  Strengthening Legal Access to Services through Expanding the Civil 
Registry (US$4.0 million).
 
This component will support the National Civil Registry (RNPN) in 
expanding legal access to basic education and health services in the 100 municipalities targeted 
under the 
Red Solidaria
 by ensuring that families and individuals that lacking proper legal status 
are able to obtain the appropriate legal documentation .  Specifically, this component will focus 
on ensuring that all members of
 
eligible families, including those older than age 15, are 
incorporated in the national civil registry system and possess the personal identification 
documents to gain access to basic public services – either in the form of a national Identity 
Document (
Documento Unico de Identidad 
–
DUI) 
or a birth certificates (for minors under 18 
years of age). 
 
This component will involve collection of data on families in the 100 municipalities targeted by 
the Project, as part of the census being collected by FISDL to register the 
Red 
Solidaria
’s 
beneficiary population. The RNPN will use this census to identify the part of the population 
without proper documentation and those requiring verification, correction, or updating of their 
identity documents.  On the basis of the census, the RNPN will identify three groups requiring 
action: (i) children younger than 18 years old without birth certificate, (ii) adults older than 18 
years of age with birth certificate but not DUI, and (iii) adults older than 18 years old with 
neither birth certificate nor DUI. Every family will be notified by the RNPN regarding the status 
of their members, as well as of the processes required to obtain proper legal identification.  DUI 
Centers (associated with the RNPN) will then process the necessary identity documents.  To 
facilitate the process, the RNPN will establish mobile DUI Centers, where required, to ensure 
that those in the most remote rural areas are able to obtain the identity documents.  
Page  14
The main results indicators for Component 3 will be that
:
(i) 90 percent of children younger 
than 18 years of age living in the Project’s target areas have received their birth 
certificate; and (ii) 90 percent of family members 18 years of age or older in the 
target areas have received legal identification documents.  
 
Component IV.  Monitoring, Evaluation and Management of the 
Red Solidaria
 Program 
(US$2.0 million World Bank financing, $6.0 million total external financing)
.
The Project 
also will support the implementation of the 
Red Solidaria
 Program through the establishment and 
strengthening of an appropriate institutional structure.  In this context, the Project will support 
the 
strengthening of the Secretaria Técnica de la Presidencia  (STP) – to ensure the adequate 
design and implementation of the operational rules and norms of the 
Red Solidaria
 Program, 
effective inter-institutional and inter-sectoral coordination, an effective social communication 
and dissemination strategy, and appropriate supervision and monitoring of the Program.  As the 
current 
Red Solidaria 
Program constitutes the first phase in what will eventually be a broader 
social protection strategy, it will be important as well to continue to strengthen the STP’s 
capacity to undertake strategic as well as operational planning. 
 
To this end, the Project will support the development of a small technical team in the 
Red 
Solidaria 
Unit of the STP, including an Executive Director (already hired from within the STP) 
and a small core staff), as well as provide technical support, training, and the equipment 
necessary to fulfill its coordination, supervision and monitoring functions.  The Project will also 
support the development of a set of operational instruments to support the STP team’s activities, 
including:  
·
A
social communication strategy
 aimed at the beneficiary population, basic service 
providers and other stakeholders, consisting of basic information to be disseminated about 
the Program, as well as national and local level workshops for the technical and 
administrative staff of the various ministries, agencies, municipal and local committees and 
NGOs carrying out activities under the 
Red Solidaria
.
·
An information system linked to the 
M&E
 system being developed and administered by the 
FISDL to enable follow-up on the program’s progress during implementation.  
·
An 
external impact evaluation
 to measure the effects of the program (both demand and 
supply-side interventions) on school enrollment and attendance, nutrition, immunization, and 
utilization of health facilities.  The evaluation, which will be contracted out with a highly 
specialized firm, will use a baseline developed for that purpose, along with follow-up 
surveys.  
·
Regular Program audits.  
On a 
four-monthly basis
,
each executing entity will prepare and 
submit to the WB and IDB a financial monitoring report (FMR) containing: (i) a statement of 
sources and uses of funds and cash balances (with expenditures classified by subcomponent); 
(ii) a statement of budget execution per subcomponent (with expenditures classified by the 
major budgetary accounts); (iii) a physical progress report; and (iv) a procurement 
monitoring report. While based on WB’s FMR Guidelines, the FMR format will be flexible 
enough to satisfy needs of the Government, WB and IDB. The FMRs will be submitted not 
later than 45 days after the end of each four-month period.  
Page  15
On an 
annual basis
,
each executing entity will prepare project financial statements including 
cumulative figures, for the year and as of the end of that year, of the financial statements 
cited in the previous paragraph. The financial statements will also include additional 
information as required under IDB Audit Policy and WB Audit Guidelines (e.g., explanatory 
notes in accordance with the Cash Basis International Public Sector Accounting Standard 
(IPSAS), and each executing entity’s assertion that loan funds were used in accordance with 
the intended purposes as specified in the Loan Agreement). These financial statements, once 
audited, will be submitted to the WB and IDB not later than 120 days after the end of the 
Government’s fiscal year (which equals the calendar year). 
 
The supporting documentation of the four-monthly and annual financial statements will be 
maintained in each executing entity’s premises, and made easily accessible to WB and IDB 
supervision missions and external auditors. 
These instruments will enable the STP to track the Red Solidaria program and to identify options 
to improve implementation and advance to subsequent phases of the program. This component 
will be fully financed by the IDB and the Bank through a parallel funding mechanism 
administered by the FISDL and implemented under a formal agreement between the STP and 
FISDL. 
Strengthening of the STP would be measured by two key results indicators expected by the third 
year of implementation reflecting their ability to implement and coordinate. These are: (i) 80,000 
families included in the registry of beneficiaries by the third year, and (ii) 100 municipalities 
with adequate provision of education, health and nutrition services. 
Components financed by the IDB. 
The Project will benefit from two additional components 
financed exclusively by the IDB:
 
(i)
 
to ensure adequate supply in pre-school and primary 
education, the IDB is currently preparing an investment project to be presented to the IDB Board 
prior to this Project. The IDB project will finance activities to improve education quality, with 
special emphasis on the 100 municipalities targeted by the 
Red Solidaria
 Program.  (ii) As a 
component of the 
Red Solidaria
 program, the IDB will finance a basic infrastructure component 
to ensure that education and health facilities within the 
Red Solidaria
 are physically adequate and 
accessible; this component will finance investments in water supply, small roads and bridges, 
and electricity, among others. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 82.6 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
21 
INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK 
57 
 Total 
160.6 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Page  16
The Project will be formally co-financed by the World Bank and IDB.
 
Some components 
(or subcomponents) will be co-financed by both Banks, while others will be financed 
independently, under close coordination between the two Banks.  Project implementation will 
entail full operational coordination with IDB. Under the general coordination of the STP, single 
units in the MOH and FISDL will be responsible for Project administration, financial 
management, and procurement. Likewise, the Project involves the same M&E system, impact 
evaluation, and harmonized financial management procedures (i.e., budget management and 
internal control procedures, financial reporting, and external audits) for both financiers. Finally, 
co-financing arrangements were also carefully agreed. The health and nutrition packages 
(component 2) will be co-financed by both banks using a pooled funding mechanism and 
following Bank’s procurement norms and regulation. At the request of the GOES, activities 
under component 4 will be financed in parallel by both Banks. To ensure appropriate 
coordination and integration of Project components, project preparation has been joint with the 
IDB, including most missions.
11
 
The Project also requires clear partnership arrangements with related education and 
health sector operations of both Banks.
 In the education sector, the task team has coordinated 
closely with the IDB team preparing a parallel operation to improve the quality and efficiency of 
pre-school and primary education, with special emphasis on the 100 poorest municipalities 
targeted within the 
Red Solidaria
.
12
 In the health sector, the World Bank and IDB closely 
coordinate their operations currently under implementation by the Ministry of Health:  the 
Project’s health and nutrition component will be implemented under the same institutional 
arrangements as the World Bank’s RHESSA project, through the current PCU; and starting in 
2007 when the IDB’s PAM project ends, a single unit will be responsible for health and nutrition 
services in all the 100 municipalities under the 
Red Solidaria 
program.  Moreover, the RHESSA 
project in engaged, as part of a long-term commitment to institutional development within the 
Health Ministry, the RHESSA project is currently engaged in dialogue about the eventual 
absorption of the PCU into the Ministry’s administrative structure.   
 
The Project encourages active coordination with other donors, particularly KfW and 
USAID.
 
As in other Central American countries, USAID has supported the design and 
implementation of preventive malnutrition programs. The Project is in coordination with USAID 
to ensure common goals for the health and nutrition component. KfW has supported the FISDL 
in development and utilizing an efficient resource allocation scheme for local infrastructure 
based on matching grants and participatory local processes. The infrastructure component of this 
Project (financed solely by the IDB) will adopt these procedures, to be reflected in the pertinent 
sections of the Operational Manual. 
 
Institutional and implementation arrangements 
 
The Project will support the institutional and implementation arrangements of the 
Red 
Solidaria 
Program, to facilitate the execution of this innovative anti-poverty and social 
11
 Note that the two project definitions differ slightly, since IDB would finance a Basic Infrastructure component not 
included in the World Bank Project and the World Bank would finance a Civil Registry component not included in 
the IDB Project.  For more information on the IDB’s Basic Infrastructure component, see Annex 15. 
12
 For further information on the IDB’s pre-school and primary education project, see Annex 16. 
Page  17
protection intervention.
 The 
Red Solidaria
 will have a three-tiered institutional structure that 
includes:  (i) an overall policy tier; (ii) a coordination, supervision, and monitoring tier; and (iii) 
a
program implementation tier.  Specifically, the policy function will be carried out by a National 
Board composed of the relevant ministers and agency heads
13
,
and chaired by the Secretary of 
the STP.  This Board will define overall policy and strategy, and it will broadly oversee 
implementation.  Responsibility for general coordination, supervision, and monitoring and 
evaluation of the Program will be carried out by the 
Red Solidaria 
unit of the STP, while the 
FISDL, the Ministries of Education and Health, the RNPN (and other relevant agencies
14)
 will be 
responsible for implementing the various interventions in coordination with local governments. 
 
Under the general direction of the 
Red Solidaria
’s National Board, the Project will be 
managed by an Executive Director – located administratively in the 
Red Solidaria 
unit of 
the STP – who will be responsible for the overall coordination of the Program and for 
ensuring its effective and timely implementation.
 
The Project will support the STP’s 
leadership of the 
Red Solidaria
 by supporting the staffing and strengthening of the capacity of 
the 
Red Solidaria
 unit as well as through supporting the development of the tools necessary to 
coordinate, monitor, and evaluate the Program. The Executive Director of the 
Red Solidaria
,
who
 
has already been appointed from within the ranks of the STP, will be supported by a small 
technical team which is in the process of being strengthened and expanded.  The 
Red Solidaria
 
unit will coordinate activities with all ministries and agencies involved in the program, and will 
manage the program’s monitoring system, the communication strategy, and the impact 
evaluation process. The functions of the STP/
Red Solidaria 
unit will be supported by a Technical 
Committee of representatives from the Ministries of Health and Education, FISDL, RNPN, and 
other agencies involved in the implementation of the Program.   
 
Under the general guidance of the STP, the FISDL will implement the CCT program.
 The 
FISDL is being restructured to conform to the component’s operational requirements, which 
include administering the targeting mechanisms, creating, managing and updating the beneficiary 
registry, verifying beneficiary compliance with co-responsibilities, and managing transfers 
disbursement to beneficiary families.  The FISDL will also coordinate with the Ministries of 
Education and Health, and other implementing agencies to ensure the availability of basic 
services prior to transfers disbursements.  At the same time, the FISDL will establish local 
committees to coordinate actions at the local level, act as liaison with municipal governments, 
and involve grass roots organizations.  Following STP guidelines, the FISDL will be responsible 
to contract specialized NGOs to provide support and training to communities and families at the 
local level.  
 
Provision of basic health, nutrition, and education services will be the responsibility of the 
Health and Education ministries, respectively.
 Specifically, the Ministry of Health will 
implement Project Component 2. While the RHESSA project is currently managed by a PCU, as 
mentioned above, in the future MSPAS is planning to institutionalize those activities – through 
13
 The 
Red Solidaria
’s Board includes the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency, the President’s Advisor for Social 
Issues, the Ministries of Education, Finance, Health, Economy, Government (Interior), Public Works, Agriculture, 
Environment and Labor, FISDL, ANDA, RNPN, ISSS, and other central government agencies (Presidential Decree 
45, 2005).  
Page  18
gradual absorption mechanisms 
–
into its own administrative structure.
14
 Consistent with this 
plan, the MSPAS will implement the extension of a unified package of basic health and nutrition 
services to those municipalities (among the 100 targeted municipalities) that are not currently 
covered by either the RHESSA or IDB’s PAM projects .When the PAM project ends at the end 
of 2006, this unit will also guarantee basic health and nutrition service provision in those 
municipalities previously covered by the PAM. Of the 100 municipalities targeted in the 
Red
 
Solidaria
,
the RHESSA project covers 68 municipalities and, the PAM 9, while 20 
municipalities are not covered
15
.
Implementation of the basic health and nutrition package in the 
100 municipalities will be implemented under the timeline established by 
Red Solidaria 
(as 
presented in Annex 4, and 6, see tables A4.5 and A6.1). 
 
The Component to Strengthen Legal Access to Services will be managed and implemented 
by the Civil Registry Agency (RNPN).
 
The RNPN will implement the activities to provide 
personal identification documents for undocumented inhabitants of the 100 targeted 
municipalities, using mobile teams.  These activities will be undertaken in coordination with the 
FISDL; for example data on the documentation status of family members in the Program area 
will be collected through a census to be implemented by FISDL to establish the Program’s 
beneficiary registry.   Local-level institutions will also play an important role in the process.  For 
instance, RNPN’s efforts to contact family members that require identification will be facilitated 
by municipal and local governments, as well as by the NGOs contracted by FISDL to support 
households’ in attaining the full benefits available under the Program. 
 
To help reduce administrative costs and facilitate project activities, FISDL will be 
responsible for administering the funds for the Strengthening Legal Access to Services and 
Monitoring, Evaluation and Program Management components (Components 2 and 4, 
respectively).
 
Given the strong administrative, financial management and procurement capacity 
of the FISDL, implementation of these relatively small components will be guided by inter-
agency agreements between the FISDL and the RNPN, and the STP, respectively. 
 
Basis for Selection of Institutional Arrangements
 
The selected agencies are well positioned and capable of carrying out their roles
.
The STP, 
in its supervision, coordination, and monitoring capacity, will have ultimate responsibility for the 
Project’s implementation.  To date, the 
Red Solidaria 
unit of the STP, working in coordination 
with the President’s Advisor for Social Issues, has been the Salvadoran government agency in 
charge of the basic design and formulation of the 
Red Solidaria
 Program.  In this context, the 
STP has been responsible for:  (i) defining an appropriate institutional and implementation 
strategy for the 
Red Solidaria
 (see figure 1 in annex 6); (ii) coordinating the 
Red Solidaria’s
 
goals and activities with line Ministries, other central agencies, and municipalities; (iii) agreeing 
with the Ministry of Finance to guarantee the budget appropriation for the Project; and (iv) 
ensuring efficient donor coordination.  
 
In pursing its role in the design of the 
Red Solidaria
,
and in coordinating the different 
actors in program preparation, the STP’s performance has been impressive.
 
There has also 
14
 The precise timeline for this institutional process has not yet been determined.  
15
 The Government will finance health coverage extension in 3 of the 32 poorest municipalities starting in 2006.  
Page  19
been clear learning and capacity improvements during the course of the Program preparation.  
This capacity, coupled with the ability to grow and adapt to emerging needs and challenges will 
be key to the future success of 
Red Solidaria
.
Moreover, the STP has enlisted the full support of 
the other institutional players 
–
the various line Ministries and other implementing agencies. For 
all these reasons, the STP is the appropriate agency to coordinate and direct the Project.   
 
The FISDL has also developed adequate administrative, financial management, and 
procurement capacity to implement component 1 
–
building on its recent experiences 
managing local development projects 
(see annexes 7 and 8).  Indeed, in recent years, FISDL 
has played a role as project administrator, with support from such international agencies as the 
IDB and KfW, using similar institutional arrangements to those proposed with the RNPN and 
STP under components 3 and 4. Since FISDL, as a social fund, has demonstrated its capacity to 
work with the commercial banking system, that aspect of CCT implementation will not be new.  
Finally, FISDL is the Salvadoran agency with the most prominent institutional presence in the 
targeted municipalities. Nevertheless, like the STP, the FISDL will need to further strengthen its 
capacity as part of the Project.  Processes are already underway.  The current restructuring of 
FISDL to adapt its organizational structure to implement the CCT component, as well as to put 
in place the necessary systems to facilitate its new role, will contribute to ensure efficiency and 
transparency in implementation and to guarantee the timely delivery of transfers to the poorest 
Salvadoran families. This restructuring process commenced using PHRD grant funds and IDB 
technical assistance resources, and has progressed significantly.  The process will be completed 
under implementation of Project Component 1. 
 
The Ministry of Health is the natural implementation agency for component 2.
 
Since a 
necessary complement to a social protection strategy based on CCTs is the provision of an 
adequate supply of basic education, health and nutritional services, the Project will enable 
MSPAS to guarantee full coverage of the basic health and nutrition package in the poorest 100 
municipalities. With the Project’s support, the MSPAS will also: (i) standardize the basic health 
and nutrition service package across the target municipalities; (ii) consolidate implementation of 
health and nutrition service provision through a single implementation unit; and (iii) strengthen 
MSPAS’s capacity to supervise health and nutritional services. 
 
As in the case of health, the RNPN is the logical choice to implement a civil registry 
campaign.  
The National Registry of Natural Persons was created in 1995
16
 as an autonomous 
central government agency in charge of register, maintain, and issue all information about 
judicial facts and acts of families  This responsibility includes issuing personal identification 
documents, including the “Universal Identification Document” (DUI) and birth certificates. 
Given the significant proportion of Salvadorans without proper identification document – about 
10 percent according to a study that the RNPN commissioned in 2003 – the RNPN has set out to 
update the national registry of citizens and close the gap of unidentified persons.  Component 3 
of the project not only seeks to improve legal access to basic services, but is also part of the 
RNPN strategy to reduce the proportion of Salvadorians without proper identification 
documents.  Participation in the 
Red Solidaria
 is thus a natural poverty-focused extension of the 
work that the RNPN is already committed to and engaged in.  
 
16
 The RNPN was created through the legislative decree number 488 of 1995.   
Page  20
While the choices of institutional arrangements are appropriate 
–
both in terms of the 
specific institutions and the three-tiered institutional structure – the fact that the 
Red 
Solidaria
 is a new initiative means that efforts to strengthen the institutional capacity of the 
main players will be important.   
As noted above, efforts have already begun to strengthen the 
capacity of the 
Red Solidaria
 Unit in the STP to coordinate, supervise, and monitor the Program.  
The Project will continue to support strengthening of this capacity, both through technical 
assistance and with support for adequate staffing.  Similarly, efforts that began recently to 
restructure the FISDL and to build technical systems to support effective implementation of the 
CCT program 
–
efforts that will be critical to the success of the 
Red Solidaria
 –
will be continued 
under the implementation of the Project. 
 
Financial Management arrangements.   
Project administration responsibilities will be assigned to two executing entities: the FISDL 
for components 1, 3, and 4, and the MSPAS for component 2. 
Within FISDL, the Financial 
and Administration Management Unit will be directly in charge of financial management (FM) 
matters. Within MSPAS, that role will be played by the Project Coordination Unit of the 
Reconstruction of Hospitals and Extension of Health Services Project (UCP-RHESSA).  
 
The FM tasks will basically include: (i) budget formulation and monitoring; (ii) cash flow 
management (including processing loan withdrawal applications); (iii) maintenance of 
accounting records, (iv) preparation of in-year and year-end financial reports, (v) 
administration of underlying information systems, and (vi) arranging for execution of 
external audits.
 The fact that both entities have ongoing experience managing projects financed 
by the WB and IDB, for which they make use of suitable administrative structures and systems, 
puts these agencies in an advantageous position to take over, with relative ease, the cited FM 
functions. Still, certain project-specific actions to be executed by loan effectiveness have been 
identified in a FM Action Plan. 
 
Procurement Arrangements
.
FISDL will have full responsibility for the technical and fiduciary aspects for project 
components 1, 3 and 4, while. MSPAS will have full responsibility for the technical and 
fiduciary aspects for the project component 2. 
Overall coordination and supervision under the 
loan, as well as Project monitoring and evaluation will be the responsibility of the STP.  At the 
same time, a number of ministries (e.g., health, education) and agencies (e.g., RNPN) will be 
involved in the implementation of the Project.  Other institutional actors will also play a role in 
supporting implementation of the Project at the local level, including the municipalities, 
community associations, and NGOs.  
 
There will be two procurement officers, one in FISDL and one in MSPAS. 
If necessary, 
procurement assistants will be hired to support this function. In the case of FISDL, the 
procurement function will be integrated within the organizational structure of FISDL. The 
project’s procurement officer will be integrated within the Institutional Procurement Unit 
(UACI). In the case of MSPAS, procurement activities will be carried out by the PCU 
implementing the Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction and Health Services Extension project 
Page  21
7084-ES, financed by the WB. That PCU will be strengthened with an additional procurement 
officer and an assistant if necessary. 
 
A
full assessment of the capacity of both FISDL and MSPAS to implement procurement 
was carried out.
 The review covered the organizational structure for implementing the project, 
the volume and complexity of procurement actions for the project as well as the agreed 
arrangements. 
 
A
project Operational Manual will include all rules and regulations for the implementation 
of each project component and operation of the two PCUs
 (i.e. project planning, monitoring, 
evaluation, institutional arrangements, reporting, communication, human resources, 
coordination, procurement, and financial management). Any changes to it will require no 
objection from the Bank.  A complete version of the Manual will be brought to negotiations for 
discussion and agreement with the bank. 
 
Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results 
 
A
comprehensive scheme will monitor and evaluate the Project and the Red Solidaria program. 
The system is based on four components:  
 
(i) The 
Project’s Monitoring and Supervision system (M&S)
 established and administered by 
the FISDL and linked to Executive Direction of the 
Red Solidaria
 program in the STP, will be 
implemented to track the project’s physical and financial progress during implementation. The 
M&S will generate timely reports that will inform the Project’s implementing agencies in 
coordination with the STP. Additionally, the M&S system will track 
achievement of project 
performance indicators
 included in the Results Framework (Annex 3).  
 
(ii) The 
Conditional Cash Transfers’ monitoring system
 at the FISDL will keep the program 
beneficiaries database updated, verify beneficiary compliance with agreed co-responsibilities of 
the CCT, control payments to families, and produce managerial reports and projects indicators. 
The system will receive data to verify compliance and on such basis delivery of the education 
and health/nutrition transfers from the contracted NGOs, collected directly from the education 
and health sectors’ information systems.  
 
(iii) A 
spot-checks system
,
implemented by FISDL, will verify the quality of information 
feeding the monitoring system and the Project’s operational systems. Spot-checks will occur 
regularly (several times a year) on a sample basis. 
 
(iv) The 
Project impact evaluation
,
coordinated by the STP and contracted to an external firm, 
will assess the impact of the CCT program on beneficiary families and on the related provision 
of basic services. This evaluation will also assess the impact of the CCT program on the demand 
for basic services. The impact evaluation will use a specific baseline, collected prior to project 
implementation, and follow-up household surveys of control and treatment groups. 
 
(iv) 
Social audits
 are a participatory monitoring of project activities by beneficiary communities.  
The project, through municipal and local committees and in coordination with FISDL at the local 
Page  22
level, will promote social audits.  These NGOs will work with the municipal liaison (
enlace 
municipal
)
and local authorities to coordinate the social audits and obtain beneficiary feedback 
and suggestions.  
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The Red Solidaria Program constitutes the most important social policy intervention of the Saca 
administration in El Salvador. Program development, led by the STP and the President’s advisor 
for social issues, has been a lengthy process, actively involving line ministries and other central 
government agencies (notably the FISDL) from the outset.  Similarly good cooperation and 
coordination is expected for the implementation phase.  This collaborative process has ensured 
that the Red Solidaria program reflects a shared vision of social policy outcomes, under a very 
coherent framework, in which key medium-term development goals for the social line ministries, 
the FISDL, and the RNPN have been adjusted to support a sustainable expansion of the 
Red 
Solidaria
.
Equally important, the government of El Salvador as a whole has demonstrated very strong 
ownership of this Program. Indeed, the Program represents the Flagship poverty reduction and 
social protection program of the current government, launched at their own initiative.  The high 
level of ownership and commitment has been evident over the project preparation process.  A 
common concern for CCT programs is fiscal sustainability beyond the period of the donor-
financed project. The Salvadoran government has decided to address that risk from the outset by 
financing 100 percent of the conditional cash transfers out of government revenues, as 
counterpart funds for the project. The loan agreement will include corresponding covenants to 
ensure annually that adequate fiscal space and budgetary appropriations are in place. 
 
A
key goal of CCT programs – and a key challenge – is to generate sustainable increases in 
families’ investments in human capital along with long-term improvements in families’ health 
and nutritional practices.  International experience suggests that when a conditional transfer is 
phased out, there is some risk that enrollment and drop out rates may revert to their pre-program 
levels.  The risk of a reversion appears to be lower in the case of nutrition and health transfers, as 
new practices in these sectors are commonly supported by community-based strategies to 
generate and maintain demand. To address these risks and improve program sustainability, the 
GOES is considering interventions that could work to support continuity of gains.  For example, 
to ensure that short-term gains from the education transfers are carried forward, the Ministry of 
Education (MoE) is considering a complementary scholarship program for children of families 
that consistently met their CCT co-responsibilities to ensure that they complete grade 6
th
.
In 
addition, the MoE is working to create a system of incentives for rural teachers (
bono
de
ruralidad
)
that will induce them to stay at rural schools, thereby ensuring an adequate supply of 
education in remote, rural areas and motivating families to continue making investments in their 
children’s education. 
 
To improve institutional sustainability, considerable resources will be allocated to consolidate 
supported activities within government institutional structures. A major Project focus is 
strengthening the STP’s capacity to coordinate a medium-term social protection strategy and 
Page  23
make judgments regarding its expansion based on accurate information and program impact. 
Likewise, special attention will be focused on FISDL’s institutional framework to ensure 
adequate capacity to administer, implement, and monitor a social protection intervention based 
on conditional cash transfers.  By the end of the Project it is expected that the FISDL will have 
the administrative structure, technological tools, and—more importantly—the knowledge to 
expand the program to other families and areas of the country. 
 
The Project will support the GOES strategy to consolidate the role of the line Ministries as the 
leaders of their sector strategies and as directly responsible to improve service quality and extend 
coverage. To ensure sustainability of these improved and expanded services, and the increased 
service usage promoted by the CCTs, the GOES will need to develop fiscal provisions to ensure 
availability of the additional financial resources required on a continuing basis. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The recent Poverty Assessment (PA) for El Salvador showed that the poorest Salvadorans have 
not been able to take advantage of recent economic progress due in part to their lack of human 
capital.  Moreover, the PA plus other related studies show that poverty goes beyond low income 
and lack of basic needs, to include barriers to basic services, including supply side barriers (lack 
of available services), demand side barriers (high direct and opportunity costs of using basic 
services), legal barriers (lack of legal identification documents needed for service access), and 
physical barriers to access (lack of basic roads and small bridges, basic social service units 
without adequate water supply and electricity, etc.).  The Project will help the poor overcome 
barriers to building their human capital via an integrated approach that goes beyond traditional 
line ministry programs. The project supports cross-sectoral institutional implementation, through 
the existing network of central government, local authorities, civil society and non-public 
organizations. 
 
The main lessons learned from programs in the region and elsewhere and reflected in project 
design include: 
 
·
The Project design is based on the proven effectiveness of cash transfers to overcome 
shortcomings that traditional “aid programs” have not been able to solve. Recent impact 
evaluations of other CCTs programs in Latin America have shown that demand subsidies via 
cash or voucher transfer programs can improve school attendance and the regular monitoring 
of child growth and development, as well as health and nutrition outcomes.  Conditioning the 
transfers on compliance with beneficiary co-responsibilities, when supported by training in 
key areas, also creates more favorable conditions for overcoming extreme poverty. 
·
Preventing chronic malnutrition through food distribution and curative activities has not 
proven effective and may be counterproductive in the long-term.  Food distribution and in-
kind transfers have little impact in preventing chronic malnutrition since these efforts are 
targeted to children older than two years of age when the damage of malnutrition is already 
irreversible. The Project's approach is largely (although not exclusively) preventive, based on 
growth monitoring and training, to promote long-term changes in family and community 
behaviors in nutrition and health. 
Page  24
·
Demand-side interventions for human development are more likely to be effective when 
supply-side constraints are addressed simultaneously.  International experience indicates that 
although social protection programs like CCT can improve school attendance, reduce 
repetition and drop out, and mitigate chronic malnutrition, such programs can only attain 
their goals if poor households also have access to adequate education and health services. 
·
Increased knowledge, impr
oved awareness of the value of investing in children’s human 
capital, and strengthening of family health and nutritional practices – supported by training, 
workshops and Program co-responsibilities – are all important to the long-term success of a 
CCT program.  Although the transfers are lonely scheduled to last for three years, if the 
Program succeeds in changing families’ knowledge, attitudes, and practices, then many of 
the benefits of the transfers will be sustained.  Changing family practices in arenas like water 
usage, food consumption, cooking practices, and child care, as well as recognizing the 
importance of education, full immunization, and regular child growth monitoring are all 
central goals of the 
Red Solidaria
.
The program incorporates complementary activities to 
support changes in knowledge, attitudes, and practices among poor families through (i) 
regular workshops offered by contracted NGOs to support families in meeting their co-
responsibilities, and (ii) individual counseling and group training through the AIN-C strategy 
included in the basic package of health/nutrition services.   
·
Any temporary benefit, such as a conditional cash transfer, must define a clear exit policy.  
Without a clear exit policy, a CCT program risks creating aid dependency and limts the 
ability of the program to address the needs of a wider group of poor households.  This Project 
will incorporate an exit policy that seeks to replace the benefit, while continuing to support 
the desired family practices and human capital investments; proposals discussed with the 
GOES include: (i) education scholarships for families who received the transfer; (ii) 
incentives for teachers to stay in rural areas permanently and ensure that adequate education 
supply reach poor isolated communities; and (iii) community-based programs in health and 
nutrition that create a permanent demand for these services, like NGO provision of the basic 
package of health services.   
·
The importance of strong project leadership is recognized in this Project, as is the need for 
strong cross-sectoral support and coordination.  Project coordination, supervision, and 
monitoring will reside with STP, a strong agency with the highest level of political support. 
Indeed, over the past year, the STP has effectively led a process to design and prepare the 
Red Solidaria
 program, while generating widespread interest and stakeholder support for the 
initiative. As the Program moves into implementation, the coordination, supervision, and 
monitoring roles of the STP will be greatly facilitated by the 
Red Solidaria
’s National Board, 
comprised of representatives from the key sectors, ministries, and agencies involved in the 
Program’s implementation.  Similarly, implementation of the CCT is being spearheaded by 
the FISDL, an agency with a history of leadership and effective implementation of 
development projects at the local level.  In this context, both the specific agencies entrusted 
with key leadership roles in the 
Red Solidaria
 and the three-tiered institutional structure of 
the program (discussed in more detail below), with its strong multi-sectoral linkages, will 
serve the Program well. 
 
Page  25
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [ 
] 
[X] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Country Documents produced by the Government
:
1. 
El Salvador 
–
Manual to develop the extension of health services in the affected areas by 
the earthquakes of 2001 – Ministry of Health – RHESSA Project, 
2005.
2.  El Salvador – Institutional Analysis of the Red Solidaria Program in El Salvador – Final 
Report – Veronica Silva, 
June 2005.
 
3.  El Salvador - Micronutrients Component Evaluation within the AIN Strategy – Ministry 
of Health – 
2004.
4.  El Salvador – Report on meetings of the AIN Strategy Evaluation with SIBASIS and 
ETZ – 
April 2005.
 
5.  El Salvador – Growth and Development through Community Participation Promotion:  
“Comprehensive Care in Nutrition in the Community-AIN” – 
2005.
Country Documents produced/commissioned by the World Bank
:
1.  El Salvador – Country Assistance Strategy - 
January 18, 2005.
 
2.  El Salvador – Poverty Assessment:  Strengthening Social Policy – 
June 30, 2004.
 
3.  El Salvador – Development Policy Loan – 
January 21, 2004.
 
4.  Central America – Social Safety Net Assessments:  Cross-Country Review of Principal 
Findings – Jose Marques, 
August 2003.
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Andrew D. Mason 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-0295 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  26
Fax:  (202) 522-0050 
Email: Amason@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
