Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  09/09/2005 
Report No.:  AC1722
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  El Salvador 
Project ID:  P088642 
Project Name:  Social Protection project 
Task Team Leader:  Andrew D. Mason 
Estimated Appraisal Date: August 22, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: October 27, 2005 
Managing Unit:  LCSHS-DPT 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Other social services (100%) 
Theme:  Other social protection and risk management (P);Other social development (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
20.80 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
82.40 
 
INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK 
57.00
139.40 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The proposed Project responds to the Government's Red Solidaria Program objective to 
improve the education, health, and nutrition of the Salvadoran children living in the rural 
areas of 100 poorest municipalities.  The development objective of the Project is to 
support El Salvador's Red Solidaria program to implement, scale up, and sustain a 
conditional a cash transfer (CCT) intervention for very poor families and their most 
vulnerable children in the country's poorest municipalities.  
 
The Project will also finance three complementary initiatives that have been shown by 
recent regional experience to be important to ensure that CCTs succeed in increasing 
access for the very poor to basic services.  Specifically, the Project will support 
government in realizing several key intermediate outcomes (i) implementing and scaling-
up a conditional cash transfer (CCT) program targeted to families living in extreme 
poverty in the country's 100 poorest municipalities; (ii) extending provision and 
improving the quality of a basick package of health an nutrition services in these 
municipalities; (iii) ensuring that poor Salvadorans living in the targeted municipalities 
have legal access to services, by making sure that they possess the requisite legal 
documentation, such as birth certificates and/or official identification cards; and (iv) 
Page  2
strengthening the capacity of the Salvadoran institutions charged with implementing the 
CCT program in the context of the Red Solidaria Program.   
 
3. Project Description 
The Project is comprised of 4 components that will support implementation of the 
Salvadoran Government's Red Solidaria Program, as noted above.  The first component 
involves the establishment and implementation of a conditional cash transfer (CCT) 
program, to support additional investment in children's education, health, and nutrition by 
El Salvador's poorest households.  This demand-side intervention will be complemented 
by a supply-side intervention, component 2, to ensure the provision of a basic package of 
health and nutrition services in El Salvador's 100 poorest municipalities.  The third 
component of the Project focuses on improving legal access to services among the 
country's poorest families by ensuring that both children and adults have the necessary 
legal documentation.  Component 4 focuses on monitoring, supervision and evaluation of 
Project outcomes, including measures to assure effective management of the 
Government's Red Solidaria Program.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The target area of the Social Protection project includes the 100 poorest municipalities on 
the Poverty Map, which are located mostly in rural areas. Although only 41 percent of the 
population lives in rural areas, 61 percent of the people suffering from extreme poverty 
concentrate in those areas. From the total of 262 municipalities, the 32 severe extreme 
poor municipalities will be intervened in the first year of the project, followed by the 
other 68 in extreme high poverty conditions thereafter.  
 
According to the National Salvadoran Indigenous Coordination Council (CCNIS) and 
CONCULTURA (National Council for Art and Culture at MOE), less than 10 percent of 
Salvadoran population are indigenous or self-identify as being of indigenous descent. As 
part of the assessment, a mapping exercise of the 66 municipalities with indigenous 
population (Source: Indigenous Profile, World Bank, 2003) and the 100 municipalities 
targeted by the project indicated that a total of 25 municipalities with indigenous peoples 
will be intervened by this project.  
 
Given the presence of indigenous in the project area, the OD 4.10 on Indigenous 
Peoples is triggered, and an Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP) is being incorporated as part 
of the Social Participation Strategy for the Social Protection project, to ensure all 
vulnerable groups are covered in a culturally-adequate manner.  To that end, the social 
assessment included consultations with indigenous leaders, stakeholders and indigenous 
families to ensure their participation in a culturally adequate manner.  The IPP included 
specific recommendations to be implemented in each component of the Project.  Those 
recommendations were agreed with the GOES and will be included in the Operational 
Manual.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Ximena B. Traa-Valarezo (LCSFW) 
Page  3
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
08/18/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
08/18/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
08/19/2005 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety 
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of 
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
Page  4
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP 4.10 - Indigenous Peoples 
 
Has a separate indigenous people development plan been prepared in 
consultation with the Indigenous People? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review the plan? 
No 
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed 
and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit? 
No 
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  5
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Andrew D. Mason 
08/16/2005 
Environmental Specialist: 
 
 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Ximena B. Traa-Valarezo 
08/16/2005 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
 
 
Comments:  This is a transfered project. Does not need approval from the Regional Safeguards 
Coordinator but from the Sector Manager. 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Helena G. Ribe 
09/09/2005 
Comments:   
