                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: NCO0000582




                 NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION REPORT
                                  (IBRD-73360)




                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$21 MILLION


                                     TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR

                                      FOR A

                         SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT

                                December 10, 2007




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

            EL SALVADOR CURRENCY UNIT = US$

                           FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1     ­   December 31


              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AECI     Spanish Coopertion Agency ­ Agencia Española de Cooperación Internacional
AIN-C    Atención Integral en Nutrición a Nivel Comunitario
APL      Adaptable Program Lending
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CCT      Conditional Cash Transfer
FISDL    Social Investment Fund and Local Development
GOES     Government of El Salvador
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction Development
IDA      International Development Association
IDB      Inter American Development Bank
KFW      Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
MDG      Millennium Development Goal
MOE      Ministry of Education
MOH      Ministry of Health
MSPAS    Ministry of Public Health and Social Assistance
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
PAM      Plan de Acción Mundial
PCU      Project Coordinator Unit
PDOs     Development Objectives
RHESSA   Earthquake and Emergency Rec. and Health Services Extension Project
RNPN     National Registry of Persons - Registro Nacional de Personas Naturales
RVP      Regional Vice President
SIL      Specific Investment Loan
STP      Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
USAID    United States Agency for International Development




                    Vice President: Pamela Cox
          Acting Country Director: Makhtar Diop
                   Sector Manager: Helena Ribe
                    Sector Leader: Laura Rawlings
               NCO Team Leader : Andrew Mason

                                           EL SALVADOR
                                    Social Protection Project




                                              CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs




 1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design (drawing from PAD............. 1
 2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation. ......................................... 8
 3. Assessment of Bank Performance ............................................................................ 12
 4. Assessment of Borrower Performance...................................................................... 12
 5. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 13
 Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 15
 Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................... 17
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Social Protection
Country:                El Salvador          Project Name:
                                                                    project
Project ID:             P088642              L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-73360
NCO Date:               12/13/2007
                                                                    GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                  Borrower:
                                                                    EL SALVADOR
Original Total
                        USD 21.0M            Disbursed Amount:      USD 0.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Fondo de Inversion Social
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date           Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/22/2005   Effectiveness:       04/27/2007
Appraisal:             08/22/2005   Closing:             01/31/2011         01/31/2011
Approval:              10/27/2005


C. Ratings Summary
Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                    Not Applicable
Risk to Development Outcome:                 Not Applicable
Bank Performance:                            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                        Moderately Satisfactory



D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                            35
Health                                                       65


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Child health                                                Primary
Nutrition and food security                                 Primary
Participation and civic engagement                          Primary



                                             i

Population and reproductive health                           Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                           Secondary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At NCO                        At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                      Pamela Cox
Country Director:         Jane Armitage                   Makhtar Diop
Sector Manager:           Helena G. Ribe                  Helena G. Ribe
Project Team Leader:      Andrew D. Mason                 Andrew D. Mason
NCO Team Leader:          Andrew D. Mason
NCO Primary Author:       Andrew D. Mason



F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
No.     Date ISR
        Archived                 DO                      IP               Disbursements
                                                                          (USD millions)
  1     12/20/2005            Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     06/28/2006            Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory             0.00
  3     10/02/2006            Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory                   0.00
  4     06/27/2007     Moderately Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory                   0.00




                                              ii

1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design (drawing from PAD.
briefly describe the country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance,
development objectives, components, costs and funding, implementation arrangements,
risk analysis, and quality at entry):

Country Background. El Salvador experienced a major political, economic and social
transition during the 1990s, following the end of the civil war in 1991. Many important
socio-economic gains have been registered in the decade and-a-half since the return to
peace. The economy grew by an impressive 6 percent per year from 1990-1995 and, then,
by an average rate of 2.8 percent from 1996-2002. Moreover, economic growth, coupled
with reforms in some key social sectors and increases in social spending in the second
half of the decade, has contributed to substantial reductions in poverty and improvements
in basic socio-economic indicators over the period.

Sector Background.        The findings of the recent World Bank Poverty Assessment
suggested that special measures ­ beyond the traditional programs of the education and
health ministries ­ were warranted to strengthen the human capital of the poorest
Salvadorans to ensure that they have the capacity to take advantage of future socio-
economic progress. Analysis of the relevant sectors highlighted several key constraints
that poor Salvadorans face vis-à-vis improving their access to basic education, health and
nutrition services and strengthening their human capital.          Indeed, the collection of
evidence highlighted the value of developing an integrated safety net program that could
help to ensure that the poorest families in the poorest municipalities have access to basic
education, health, and nutritional services.

In health and nutrition, the evidence suggested a combination of demand and supply
side factors are also important. On the supply side, despite considerable government
efforts to strengthen the organization and delivery of health services to expand coverage
and improve service quality, as well as efforts to increase access to basic health and
nutrition services by the poor, El Salvador still faces significant challenges in its efforts
to improve health and nutritional outcomes among the extreme poor. Household survey
data indicates that service quality is considered poor, due to insufficient and inadequately
trained staff, long waiting periods, and irregular availability of medicines.

Many poor Salvadorans, especially those from remote rural areas, lack proper
identification and, formal legal status, which create legal impediments to basic
service access. An estimated 20-25 percent of people living in isolated rural areas of El
Salvador lack identity cards, and a larger proportion lack birth certificates. This lack of
legal identification is an important impediment to access to basic services, as well as to
other types of government benefits.

Rationale for Bank Assistance.

The project was a natural next step in the Bank's ongoing collaboration with the
government on poverty reduction and social policy. The World Bank and the



                                              1

Government of El Salvador (GOES) have been collaborating on poverty and social policy
issues, including human capital development and social protection, for several years. The
most recent round of activities began in the aftermath of the 2001 earthquakes when the
government asked the Bank to analyze the poverty and social situation in the country. In
this context, the Bank initiated an analytical program that generated two policy notes in
2002: one on poverty and social spending, the other on strengthening El Salvador's
social safety net. These policy notes generated demand from the GOES for a full-blown
Poverty Assessment focused on strengthening social policy, as well as for technical
assistance focused on developing a Poverty Map that would enable better targeting of the
Government's poverty-oriented interventions. Several key findings and messages of the
Poverty Assessment ­ including those related to the development of a stronger safety net
­ served to deepen the Bank's dialogue with the GOES and helped to create the impetus
for cooperation on social policy at the operational level. The present project which the
canceled loan was to support, builds on the recent analytical work and on the dialogue, as
the logical next step of this ongoing GOES-Bank collaboration.

The project was strongly consistent with the current Country Assistance Strategy
for El Salvador. The El Salvador CAS proposes to provide support to the three main
pillars of the GOES 2004-2009 Development Plan: (i) accelerating broad-based,
equitable economic growth and increasing employment; (ii) improving equity through
building human capital and enhancing access to basic socio-economic infrastructure,
assets, and markets; and (iii) enhancing security and reducing vulnerability. The Project
was to support two of the CAS's main pillars. For example, the proposed operation was
at the core of Pillar 2, focused on supporting government's efforts to modernize
education and build a knowledge society, improve quality and coverage of health services,
carry out sub-national strategies to expand access to basic social and economic
infrastructure, and strengthen family assets. The Project also supported Pillar 3 of the
GOES Development Plan through promoting a more coherent, effective social safety net,
greater family responsibility (through program "co-responsibilities"), and improved
quality of life through strengthened human capital. As noted above, the Project was
coordinated with other World Bank operations that were developed or implemented
under the CAS, thus complementing several World Bank operations in education and
health as well as El Salvador's Development Policy Loans.

Project development objectives and Indicators

The Project development objective was to improve the education, health, and
nutrition of Salvadoran children living in the rural areas of 100 poorest
municipalities. Specifically, the Project was to support the government's efforts to
develop its flagship poverty reduction program, the Red Solidaria, and to expand it to
80,000 families living in rural areas of extremely poor municipalities over a five-year
period. In this context, it is expected that as a result of the Program: (i) net school
enrollment will increase by 6 percentages points; (ii) children who receive a complete set
of immunizations will increase by 5 percentages points; and (iii) the incidence of
malnutrition rate (measured as underweight rates) will decline by 4 percentage points, in
the Project area, by the end of the Project. Increasing the human capital of children from



                                             2

the poorest Salvadoran households will enhance their ability to participate in and benefit
from future socio-economic progress (as youth and adults), thus helping to reduce the
inter-generational transfer of poverty.

Project components

The Project was comprised of 4 components that would have supported implementation
of the Salvadoran Government's Red Solidaria Program. The first component involved
the establishment and implementation of a conditional cash transfer (CCT) program, to
support additional investment in children's education, health, and nutrition by El
Salvador's poorest households. This demand-side intervention was to be complemented
by a supply-side intervention, component 2, to ensure the provision of a basic package of
health and nutrition services in El Salvador's 100 poorest municipalities. The third
component of the Project focused on improving legal access to services among the
country's poorest families by ensuring that both children and adults have the necessary
legal documentation. Component 4 focused on monitoring, supervision and evaluation of
Project outcomes, including measures to assure effective management of the
Government's Red Solidaria Program.

Component I. Conditional Cash Transfer Program (US$63.6 million financed by
government counterpart funds). This component was to support the implementation of
a conditional cash transfer program to encourage extremely poor families to send their
children 5-15 years old to pre-school and primary education, maintain the full
immunization "package" in children younger than 5 years, and regularly monitor the
growth and development of children aged 0-24 months. The Ministries of Education and
Health participated fully in the design and preparation of Red Solidaria, including
adjusting their sector development plans to match Red Solidaria's goals and targets. The
component consisted of three subcomponents which supported these goals: (A)
Conditional Transfers; (B) Support to Beneficiaries; and (C) Institutional Strengthening
of FISDL.

Component II.      Expanding Provision of Basic Health and Nutrition Services: $20
million ($15.0 million World Bank financing; $5 million IDB). This component was
to support the expansion of the existing basic package of maternal and child health
services, and the strengthening of nutritional interventions based on the AIN-C integrated
community nutrition model in the 100 poorest municipalities where the conditional cash
transfer program was to be implemented. This component was to support the MSPAS to
expand coverage of a single package of basic health and nutrition services in the 100
municipalities of the Red Solidaria. To accomplish this, it would have complemented the
service provision supported by ongoing World Bank (RHESSA) and IDB (PAM) projects,
and helped to close coverage gaps in those municipalities that are not served by the
ongoing projects.

Component III. Strengthening Legal Access to Services through Expanding the
Civil Registry $4.0 million (US$4.0 million World Bank Financing). This component
was to support the National Civil Registry (RNPN) in expanding legal access to basic



                                             3

education and health services in the 100 municipalities targeted under the Red Solidaria
by ensuring that families and individuals that lacking proper legal status were able to
obtain the appropriate legal documentation . Specifically, this component was to focus
on ensuring that all members of eligible families, including those older than age 15, were
incorporated in the national civil registry system and possessed the personal identification
documents to gain access to basic public services ­ either in the form of a national
Identity Document (Documento Unico de Identidad ­ DUI) or a birth certificates (for
minors under 18 years of age).

Component IV. Monitoring, Evaluation and Management of the Red Solidaria
Program: $6.0 million ($2.0 million World Bank financing, $4.0 million IDB). The
Project also was to support the implementation of the Red Solidaria Program through the
establishment and strengthening of an appropriate institutional structure. In this context,
the Project was to support the strengthening of the Secretaria Técnica de la Presidencia
(STP) ­ to ensure the adequate design and implementation of the operational rules and
norms of the Red Solidaria Program, effective inter-institutional and inter-sectoral
coordination, an effective social communication and dissemination strategy, and
appropriate supervision and monitoring of the Program. As the current Red Solidaria
Program constitutes the first phase in a broader social protection strategy for El Salvador,
strengthening the STP's capacity to undertake strategic and operational planning was
considered to be (and will be) important.

Strengthening of the STP was to be measured by two key results indicators, expected by
the third year of implementation reflecting their ability to implement and coordinate.
These are: (i) 80,000 families included in the registry of beneficiaries by the third year,
and (ii) 100 municipalities with adequate provision of education, health and nutrition
services.

Components financed by the IDB. The Project was to benefit from two additional
components financed exclusively by the IDB: (i) to ensure adequate supply in pre-school
and primary education, the IDB prepared an investment project that was presented to the
IDB Board prior to this Project. The IDB project was to finance activities to improve
education quality, with special emphasis on the 100 municipalities targeted by the Red
Solidaria Program. (ii) As a component of the Red Solidaria program, the IDB was to
finance a basic infrastructure component to ensure that education and health facilities
within the Red Solidaria were physically adequate and accessible; this component was to
finance investments in water supply, small roads and bridges, and electricity, among
others.

Implementation Arrangements.

The Project was formally co-financed by the World Bank and IDB.                       Some
components (or subcomponents) were to be co-financed by both Banks, while others
were to be financed independently, under close coordination between the two Banks.
Project implementation would have entailed full operational coordination with IDB.




                                              4

The Project also required clear partnership arrangements with related education
and health sector operations of both Banks. In the education sector, the task team
coordinated closely with the IDB team preparing a parallel operation to improve the
quality and efficiency of pre-school and primary education, with special emphasis on the
100 poorest municipalities targeted within the Red Solidaria.1 In the health sector, the
World Bank and IDB closely coordinate their operations currently under implementation
by the Ministry of Health: the Project's health and nutrition component was to be
implemented under the same institutional arrangements as the World Bank's RHESSA
project, through the current PCU; and starting in 2007 when the IDB's PAM project
ended, a single unit would have been responsible for health and nutrition services in all
the 100 municipalities under the Red Solidaria program.

The Project encouraged active coordination with other donors, particularly KfW
and USAID. As in other Central American countries, USAID has supported the design
and implementation of preventive malnutrition programs. The Project was in
coordination with USAID to ensure common goals for the health and nutrition
component. KfW has supported the FISDL in development and utilizing an efficient
resource allocation scheme for local infrastructure based on matching grants and
participatory local processes. The infrastructure component of this Project (financed
solely by the IDB) was to adopt these procedures, to be reflected in the pertinent sections
of the Operational Manual.

Risk analysis

The risk analysis for the project was as follows:

Risks                                Risks mitigation measures                                             Risk rating
                                                                                                              with
                                                                                                           mitigation

Fiscal space is tight in El          The Project supported the core activities of the most significant         M
Salvador, and without sufficient     social program of the new Salvadorian administration ­the Red
fiscal resources, there is a risk of Solidaria. Given the government's strong political commitment to
delays in project implementation.    the project and its objectives, it was expected that the GOES would
                                     honor that commitment and ensure adequate budgetary finance.

                                     During preparation, the GOES not only reiterated its commitment to
                                     ensure adequate fiscal space and budgetary appropriations, but also
                                     decided to fully finance the most important project component ­the
                                     conditional cash transfers, initially planned to be fully financed by
                                     loan proceeds.

The government needed to             Indeed, the broader Red Solidaria program, which this Project would       S
mobilize political support in all    have supported, is part of the government's flagship poverty
quarters to ensure a speedy          reduction program, so political support emanates from the highest
approval in Congress.                levels of government.       Therefore, it was expected that the
                                     Government would work to reach the agreements necessary to gain




1 For further information on the IDB's pre-school and primary education project, see Annex 16 of the PAD
(Report No: 32648-SV)




                                                          5

                                      political support in Congress.

                                      The government decided to finance with counterpart funds 100
                                      percent of the conditional cash transfers to beneficiary families, both
                                      to guarantee their fiscal sustainability, and to smooth discussion in
                                      Congress where the project needs approval to start implementation.

The Government's program and          The program enjoys the strong leadership provided by the                   S
the operation required an             President's Advisor for Social Issues, the Technical Secretariat of
unprecedented level of                the Presidency, and the FISDL to ensure the required support and
coordination across sectors over      coordination at both the policy and implementation levels.
an extended period of time, not
only across government                Political coordination of the program was already foreseen through

institutions and agencies, but        the recently created Board that will guide Red Solidaria activities.

across levels of government and       The administrative structure for Project implementation was based
with NGO and private sector           on a three-tiered coordination scheme, each one fulfilling specific
actors; it was thus critical that is  functions with a clear champion and enough political and technical
coordination capacity be              capacity to coordinate line ministries and central government
institutionalized.                    agencies. Within this structure, the Project's executive direction and
                                      its supporting team was institutionalized in the STP, fully backed by
                                      the President's Technical Secretary and Advisor for Social Issues.
                                      This assured the Executive Direction enough leverage to coordinate
                                      activities.

                                      In addition, the Project would have provided considerable support to
                                      design and implement coordination mechanisms.

FISDL took a leading role             A thorough institutional appraisal of FISDL was carried out during         M
implementing the Project (and the     project preparation and the required adjustments and reforms of its
wider solidarity program). This       administrative and institutional structure to manage and monitor
agency needed to reform and           CCTs were identified and agreed. These reforms began with the
update its structure and put in       support of PHRD funds, and additional resources were to be
place adequate procedures and         allocated once the Project was effective.
processes to manage a different
kind of project than those that it
has carried out in the past.
There is a shortage of primary        Both ministries are well aware of this issue and have expressed their      L
health care and nutrition services    support of the actions required. Regarding education, the IDB
and, to a lesser extent, primary      prepared a parallel project that would have addressed gaps in
education services in many of the     education service delivery in the poorest 100 municipalities. In
municipalities that would             addition, the Ministry of Education participated in the Project by
participate in the project.           supporting cash transfer exit strategies. In the case of Health, there
Addressing this shortage will         was an agreement between IDB, the GOES and the Bank to unify the
require strong support from both      package of services and the implementation units within the MoH.
ministries as well as a               Both Ministers are members of the Red Solidaria's Board. Both
commitment of adequate                Ministries adjusted their structural sectoral strategies of extending
budgetary resources.                  coverage and improving quality of services to provide services to the
                                      100 targeted municipalities as a priority

The Ministry of Health (MSPAS),       The AIN-C program was adopted as the model for the supply of               M
and the GOES more generally,          nutrition services. The Project was to promote coordination between
have historically had a limited       FISDL and the Ministry of Health to ensure that the nutrition
focus on community-based              component of the health program was effectively strengthened and
nutrition activities, now             included the most important elements of the AIN-C program. In
considered good practice.             addition, contacts and exchanges with international experiences
Traditional nutrition interventions   where     successful  growth    promotion     activities  have    been
focused on food aid. In contrast,     implemented were to have been established.
well-designed community-based
nutrition programs (like AIN-C)
have been given small weight and
never scaled-up.




                                                            6

The health and nutrition         The Ministry of Health is part of the National Board of the Red        L
component of the Project needed  Solidaria and close coordination with the STP was promoted. The
to be fully coherent with the    ministry committed to give priority to the expansion of the package
Bank's existing health project   of basic services in the poorest 100 municipalities. Moreover, the
(RHESSA). The RHESSA project     FISDL was to undergo an institutional transformation that was
had suffered several delays and  intended to guarantee better coordination with MSPAS to ensure that
could have jeopardized the       the activities of the RHESSA were well-integrated in the design of
proposed Project if its basic    the health and nutrition component of the Red Solidaria.
health/nutrition component was
not implemented in a timely and
satisfactory manner.
Overall Risk                                                                                            M


Quality at Entry
The quality of the sector diagnosis, objectives, indicators, feasibility studies, design, and
implementation arrangements are considered satisfactory, having been carried out jointly
by the World Bank, the IDB and the GOES (including FISDL, the STP, the Ministry of
Education, Ministry of Health and the RNPN). As noted above, the preparation of the
Project was done in support of the GOES's flagship poverty reduction program, the Red
Solidaria, consistent with the parameters laid out in the CAS.                           Moreover, Project
preparation was supported by extensive technical analyses ­ regarding program design,
institutional design, capacity, and coordination, information systems, and monitoring and
evaluation ­ that were supported by a US $670,000 PHRD grant (TF053765) from the
Government of Japan. Indeed, the project drew upon an extensive body of evaluation
results for conditional cash transfer programs in the region, building on the lessons from
international best practice. Extensive consultations and coordination were undertaken
both across relevant ministries and agencies in El Salvador, as well as with civil society.
The analysis of external and internal risks was also comprehensive, and considered the
risk of delays in effectiveness based on previous experience with long Congressional
debate--after which the loans eventually became effective. The original assessed risk of
division in the National Assembly was followed by the identification and implementation
of mitigation strategies.       A pro-active strategy and close coordination was undertaken
with the STP, the lead government agency negotiating the loan with the National
Assembly to provide any and all technical support, and several briefings were undertaken
by team members and CMU management (including the Country Director) with members
of the relevant committees within the National Assembly.                           Nonetheless, the Bank
underestimated the risk of "lack of consensus" and "extreme political polarization" which
led to the possibility that the loan would never become effective. Indeed, after the 2006
mid-term congressional elections, political polarization increased to unprecedented levels,
with the result of congressional gridlock in many issues of the legislative agenda,
including external loan financing.
As will be discussed further below, the Bank and the GOES continued to be proactive in
redefining their risk assessment and mitigation strategies, especially when the non-
ratification of the Social Protection Loan was imminent. The impact of this proactive
planning is that the components originally included in the Project are being implemented
successfully as part of the Red Soldiaria Program, largely as they were designed under
the Project and according to the timeline that was originally envisioned. This has led to
significant progress toward the Project's original Development Objectives (PDOs).
Among other things, the early decision on the part of the Bank and the GOES to finance


                                                       7

100 percent of the conditional cash transfers via GOES own-budget resources was
instrumental in allowing the implementation of the Red Solidaria to proceed as originally
envisaged. Progress toward achieving the original PDOs was also enabled by a highly
successful campaign on the part of the GOES, carried out once non-ratification of the
loan became imminent, to raise bilateral grant money and fill the Red Solidaria
Program's financing gap.

2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation.
(main events leading to cancellation, steps taken to resolve problems, exogenous factors,
identification of causes and responsibility if project failed, implications of failure):

The reason for loan cancellation was non-ratification by the National Assembly of the
proposed loan for the Social Protection Project, within the 18 months after Board
Approval. The Bank's Board approved the loan on October 27, 2005 and the Bank
terminated the Loan Agreement as of May 27, 2007. This section provides details of how
the Bank team had appropriately identified political polarization as a source of risk for
the loan to be ratified and how it deployed all possible mitigation actions; the political
environment at the time of CAS and loan processing provided evidence suggesting that
this risk was manageable. The section also provides information on the operational
implications of loan cancellation on the GOES's Red Solidaria Program, which the
Project was designed to support, and the Government's efforts to find alternative sources
of financing. These new-found sources of funding are today contributing to the GOES's
achievement of the Project's original PDOs.

Political Panorama when Country Assistance Strategy was approved and when the
Social Protection Project was Prepared

The Bank CAS for FY05-FY08 period contemplated an expanded lending program, and
the Social Protection Project was one of its priority interventions. When the CAS was
approved, the country's political panorama was characterized by a Government that
enjoyed enough support in the Assembly to get legislation through, including approval of
new loans. This was evidenced by the fact that the first loan delivered by the Bank under
the CAS, the DPL1, which was approved and, subsequently, ratified by Congress with no
major problems. El Salvador's internal approval process for external loans comprises a
two-step process: (i) "approval" of the loan occurs prior to Government signing of the
loan agreement and requires a simple majority in the National Assembly; (ii)
"ratification" of the loan occurs after signing but prior to loan effectiveness and requires a
two-thirds majority in the National Assembly.

Given the early support in Government enjoyed in the National Assembly, it was
reasonable to believe that the political-polarization risk was manageable. At the same
time, given a history of difficult relations between the governing party and the
opposition, the CAS and each individual operation prepared by the Bank identified
possible political gridlock as a source of risk to our interventions. In the case of the
Social Protection Loan, specific mitigation strategies for this risk included the decision to
include 100 percent of the financing of the cash transfers to be implemented under the



                                              8

project to be financed by counterpart funds (i.e., GOES own-budget resources). The
mitigation strategy also included a series of technical briefings by project team members
and country management with relevant members of the National Assembly, including
those from opposition parties. The initial mitigation strategies paid off as the first stage
of the loan ratification process was successful; the loan was approved in the National
Assembly via a simple majority vote.

After the mid-term congressional elections in March 2006, however, political polarization
in El Salvador increased rapidly, as did the Government's ability to assure ratification of
the loan. This change in the political environment occurred prior to the second review of
the social protection loan in the National Assembly, the round that requires a two-thirds
majority vote. The extremely high levels of political polarization that resulted exceeded
the Bank's expectations and seriously limited Government's ability to attain a two-thirds
majority in the National Assembly. Negotiations between the executive and legislature
on other issues of national interest also suffered as a result of the political gridlock. As
for new international lending, the main opposition party, comprising 38 percent of the
Congress, exercised its veto affecting five Bank loans (including this loan and the Bank's
education project, EXITO), as well as other multilateral loans, for a total of around $500
million.

 The Bank, in coordination with the other multilateral development banks, made all
 possible efforts to help build the necessary support in the National Assembly. While the
 relevant stakeholders in the Assembly openly recognized the technical merits of the
 Project on economic and social policy grounds, opposition party members refused to
 support ratification of the loan due to the increasing polarization around a range of other
 domestic issues. Facing the prospect of a failure to ratify the loan, the GOES began a
 proactive strategy to obtain alternative funding in order to still attain the Social
 Protection Project's ­ and the Red Solidaria's ­ Project Development Objectives
 (PDOs). At that point, the GOES's decision was to not negotiate further with the
 National Assembly, and the Bank was forced to cancel the loan after reaching the 18-
 month effectiveness period.

Steps Take to Resolve Unexpected Problems

As explained above, the risk of political polarization for loan approval was included in
the Project Appraisal Document and a mitigation plan was prepared with the Government
to address political risks through the design of the Project (100 percent of transfers to be
paid from GOES own-budget resources) and through communication and outreach to
members of the National Assembly, including those in the opposition. The STP (in
charge of the negotiations with the Assembly) along with the Bank collected and
provided all the relevant technical information to make the case for ratification of the
loan, including design elements based on international best practice for poverty reduction
programs, objective technical targeting criteria, and outreach and consultation with the
100 poorest beneficiary communities.




                                              9

As the political polarization continued to increase, beyond original expectations, the STP
and the Bank defined and implemented an even more intense information and outreach
plan, as outlined below.
   Technical Information and Outreach:
   o Providing the National Assembly technical analysis on external loans' impact on
        achieving and accelerating El Salvador's poverty reduction goals (i.e.,
        achievement of the poverty-related MDG)s.
   Top Management Follow Up:
   o Top World Bank Management missions to El Salvador to support loan ratification,
        including the Regional Vice-president and the Country Director.
   o Regular in-situ follow up by the World Bank Resident Mission for all IBRD loans
        with official and opposition parties in the National Assembly.
   o Bank-sponsored briefings and workshops, both in San Salvador and in
        Washington, DC, with members of the Financial and Budget Commission and
        other relevant sub-committees of the National Assembly prior to loan cancellation,
        including representatives from the governing and oppositions parties.
   Stakeholders' information:
   o Information to stakeholders on the benefits of the Social Protection sector loans,
        including Op Ed pieces in local newspapers by the Country Director, media
        information, and National Assembly lobbying by beneficiary communities.

It was expected that this Information and Outreach strategies would support the
consensus for approval of the loan by the National Assembly of El Salvador, within 18
month period allowed to effectiveness.            Individual members of the National Assembly
(from the leading and opposition parties) mentioned their support to the objectives of the
social protection loans; however, the executive (STP) was never able to assemble a
sufficient number of positive votes to achieve ratification of the project.

As the political stalemate for loan ratification became more imminent, the GOES, led by
the STP, identified and began to implement a plan to guarantee that the Red Solidaria
could fulfill its development objectives using alternative sources of (bilateral grant)
financing. This strategy on the part of the Government has met with considerable success.
For example, the Government has now raised 73 million Euros in grant financing from
Luxembourg, the Spanish Cooperation Agency (AECI) and the European Commission.2
This has enabled the GOES to undertake satisfactory implementation of the Red Solidaria
Program, in accordance with the design laid out during the World Bank and IDB Project
preparation ­ in pursuit of the same Development Objectives ­ and within the originally
envisioned timeline.

Moreover, despite the cancellation of the loan, the Bank has continued its engagement
with the Red Solidaria Program in several ways. First, the extension of the supply of
basic health services has continued to be targeted to El Salvador's poorest municipalities



2Grant financing in El Salvador only requires a simple majority vote in the National Assembly.




                                                   10

through the ongoing Hospital Reconstruction and Basic Health Services (RHESSA)
project. In addition, the Bank has continued to support the Red Solidaria Program via
non-lending technical assistance. This is intended to ensure, in the face of other sources
of financing, that the Program is implemented with the highest possible quality. This
technical assistance is ongoing and has included support to the design and development
of the ongoing impact evaluation of the Red Solidaria (implemented by IFPRI and
FUSADES, a local think-tank), as well as support to Program institutional strengthening
and implementation.

Implications of Loan Cancellation

The cancellation of the Social Protection Project had potential impacts on the Red
Solidaria Program in two main areas:           (i) short-to-medium term financing of the
Program's in the absence of external resources, and (ii) adverse impacts on the program's
institutional development, implementation and impact, due to the lack of project
supervision and related technical assistance. To date, the GOES with Bank support, has
worked effectively to mitigate the impacts of the cancellation of the loan. First, as noted
above, as the cancellation of the loan was becoming imminent, the GOES, led by the STP,
identified and began to implement a plan to raise grant financing from several bilateral
and multilateral donor agencies who supported the overall goals of the program. It is
worth noting that this grant financing was not available to the GOES, nor was it under
discussion when the World Bank and IDB projects were being prepared. It was only after
the non-ratification of the loan became imminent that the GOES pursued and obtained
these grants to address the financing gap for the Red Solidaria left by the cancellation of
the loans.

In addition, in the face of cancellation of the loan, at the request of the GOES for ongoing
technical support for the Red Solidaria, the Bank has developed a program on Non-
lending Technical Assistance to ensure the successful implementation of El Salvador's
Red Solidaria Program. Indeed, in the face of a short-term inability to lend to El
Salvador, continued Bank engagement in poverty reduction and social protection
activities in El Salvador implied a need to develop an innovative set of non-lending
activities.  In this context, a program of non-lending technical assistance has been
identified with government authorities and stakeholders. Implementation has begun and
is ongoing. The goal is to provide ongoing technical support to the Government in: (i)
strengthening the institutions involved in the implementation of the Red Solidaria, (ii)
supporting increasingly effective implementation of the program, (iii) continuing to share
international best practice in poverty reduction, including positive developments in the
implementation of similar programs in other countries in Latin America and beyond, and
(iv) providing technical support for a rigorous impact evaluation of the program that
would feed back into adjustments, as necessary, in the Program. As part of its ongoing
technical support, the Bank will also be doing a follow-up Poverty Assessment in El
Salvador in FY09. Together, this set of activities is designed to improve the effectiveness
and sustainability of El Salvador's fight against poverty, through the Red Solidaria (and
beyond).




                                              11

3. Assessment of Bank Performance
(lending process/ensuring Quality at Entry, supervision and implementation assistance
role, compliance with Bank policies, justification for rating):

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank performance is rated satisfactory given: (i) the strong technical inputs and
support provided by the Bank to the GOES in the design of the Red Solidaria, based on
the lessons of international best practice for poverty reduction programs; (ii) the Bank's
appropriate identification of political polarization, ex-ante, as a source of risk and its
mitigation strategies, which were followed by proactive risk management work when an
unexpected political scenario played out following El Salvador's 2006 mid-term
Congress elections); (iii) the Bank's ongoing engagement with El Salvador on the issue
of poverty reduction ­ and in the social sectors more broadly ­ throughout a difficult and
politically polarized period; and (iv) specifically the Bank's continued technical support
to the GOES in strengthening the institutions of poverty reduction, and implementation of
the Red Solidaria Program despite cancellation of the Bank's loan.

During project preparation, the Bank supported the GOES in developing the Red
Solidaria with extensive technical assistance and international knowledge brought to the
design process by the Bank's task team. This included not only design of the Program,
but a focus on strengthening the institutions charged with reducing poverty in the
country, the strengthening of the country's information systems, and the design of a
strong monitoring and evaluation system for the Program. With imminent signs that the
Bank's loan would not be approved by the National Assembly, the Bank's team was
proactive in supporting the Government of El Salvador towards identifying ways to stay
engaged in the process (via non-lending technical assistance), so as to ensure that
Development Objectives specified by the GOES and under the Project could still be
pursued and successfully achieved. In that context, the Bank has now included in its
work program, a technical assistance plan to continue to support the Government of El
Salvador with in its poverty reduction efforts via strengthening both the institutions and
the implementation of the Red Solidaria (including an impact evaluation).

4. Assessment of Borrower Performance
(government and implementing agency performance, compliance with covenants,
justification for rating):

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Despite the lack of approval by the National Assembly, the performance of the GOES,
including the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (STP), Social Investment Fund and
Local Development (FISDL), the Ministries of Education and Health, and the National
Registry of Persons (RNPN) is considered moderately satisfactory. Other cancelled
IBRD loans were given an unsatisfactory rating in this criterion in their respective NCOs;
however, for the Social Protection Project, the performance of the Borrower is considered
moderately satisfactory given the impressive efforts that the Government has made to



                                            12

pursue and achieve the original PDOs specified by the Project, and to find and negotiate
alternative sources of financing to ensure the feasibility of achieving them. Indeed,
through these efforts, the Red Solidaria Program has been implemented almost
completely as originally designed, and in accordance with the timeline specified in the
Bank and IDB projects. Indeed, judged purely on the basis of implementation of the Red
Solidaria, borrower performance would merit a satisfactory rating. However, the rating
has been moderated to reflect the fact that the GOES did not adequately manage the
political process required to ratify the loan in the National Assembly.

The performance of the GOES with respect to the PDO was thus evaluated on the basis
of: (i) implementation of the Red Solidaria Program in accordance with the original
design created and prepared in collaboration with the World Bank and the IDB; (ii) the
Government's continued commitment to financing the conditional cash transfer
component using own-budget resources; (iii) the proactive strategy of engaging other
donors which resulted in the identification of bilateral funds to support the Red Solidaria
in a way that can ensure achievement of the original PDO, including 73 million Euros
from Luxembourg, the Spanish Cooperation Agency (AECI) and the European
Commission; (iv) its active engagement of the Bank team in continued technical
assistance to ensure the continued technical quality (and institutional strengthening)
necessary to achieve the PDO and the country's broader poverty reduction objectives;
and (v) its role in managing the political process associated with shepherding the loan
through the National Assembly.

5. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Lessons learned for reflection and future application in Bank, LAC and Task Team work
are grouped in the following topics: (i) growing political polarization regarding the role
of multilateral development banks in Latin America, (ii) redefining Bank cooperation
strategies (in addition to loan financing), (iii) management of project exogenous issues
(outside task team control), and (iv) the important role of information and outreach in
Bank's work.

Political Polarization in Latin America: One broad lesson learned to reflect on is the
changing socio-political environment in Latin America.            Latin America is today
characterized by an increasingly polarized political environment. The Bank continues to
have a role to play in this context; however, it needs to define a strategy to work with
clients through out the political and ideological spectrum existent in Latin America today.

El Salvador represents this trend, were two major parties contemplate different
approaches to development, and to the role of international assistance (other countries
may include Venezuela, Ecuador and Bolivia, but also traditional client countries such as
Costa Rica, Mexico, and Brazil). A major lesson learned through the El Salvador
impasse is that the Bank must heed the growing evidence of the changing socio-political
environment in Latin America and identify the implications for our services and strategic
engagement in the region.



                                              13

Bank New Role in Countries with Alternative Sources of Financing: Another lesson
learned is the high demand of Bank's technical assistance in El Salvador, even with the
non-approval of the Bank loan. El Salvador did identify alternative sources of finance for
its Social Protection Project but still has demanded Bank technical support. It is clear
through the El Salvador case that the Bank's know-how, expertise, access to international
knowledge and lessons learned did contribute to the design, ongoing implementation and
monitoring and evaluation of the Government's Red Solidaria Program Thus, the Bank
needs to define more strategically our changing services, independently of loan financing.
The Bank's poverty eradication mission can also be served by responding to the growing
demands for knowledge sharing and technical support, especially from middle-income
countries such as El Salvador.

Task Managing in Highly Political Volatile Contexts: Managing highly political
environments is not easy on task teams; it requires varied skills, top management support,
alliance building, and knowing the limits of Bank influence. Skills required include not
only our traditional sector, economic, social and financial assessments and know-how; it
requires as well negotiation strategies, conflict resolution skills, self-management, and
alliance building competencies.       Bank management understanding of the increasingly
complex, ideological and political environment of our work can contribute to improved
human resources, monitoring and supervisory support. For example, in the El Salvador
case, although delays in project's effectiveness due to political polarization were
identified as a critical risk, the political climate in the National Assembly after the 2006
mid-term congressional elections was clearly beyond Bank's capacities to deal with and
influence, even with a proactive stance.

Outreach and Communication in Bank Work.             Outreach and communication strategies
should be implemented in every project. Information, education and communication
(IEC) strategies are key risk mitigation components in highly politicized environments.
In El Salvador, IEC strategies were useful in communicating the proposed loan objectives
and potential impact to all the political parties and education stakeholders. Although the
loan ratification in the National Assembly--given a highly politicized environment--did
not materialize, other benefits did result. For example, the Bank's Task Team created
strategic alliances with donors, cooperation agencies and key stakeholders in order to
communicate the project's objectives and create a broader support within the social
protection community of El Salvador.




                                                14

Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

    (a) Task Team members



                      Names                         Title                  Unit
          Lending
          Fabiola Altimari Montiel                Counsel                LEGLA
          Joseph Paul Formoso              Lead Finance Officer          LOAG1
          Claudia Isern                          Temporary               LCSHD

          Alessandra Marini                      Economist               LCSHS-
                                                                           DPT

          Andrew D. Mason                    Senior Economist            LCSHS-
                                                                           DPT

          Manuel Salazar                Sr Social Protection Specialis   LCSHS-
                                                                           DPT
          Manuel Vargas               Sr Financial Management Specia     LCSFM
          Evelyn Villatoro                 Sr Procurement Spec.           LCSPT
          Aracelly Woodall                   Costing Specialist          LCSHE
          Supervision/NCO
          Fabiola Altimari Montiel                Counsel                LEGLA
          Ariadna Garcia Prado                  Consultant               LCSHH
          Claudia Isern                         Temporary                LCSHD
          Monica Lehnhoff                  Procurement Analyst           LCSPT

          Alessandra Marini                     Economist                LCSHS-
                                                                           DPT
          Fabienne Mroczka           Financial Management Analyst        LCSFM
          Luis R. Prada Villalobos         Sr Procurement Spec.          LCSPT

          Manuel Salazar              Sr Social Protection Specialis     LCSHS-
                                                                           DPT
          Manuel Vargas              Sr Financial Management Specia      LCSFM

          Aracelly G. Woodall         Sr. Program Assistant/Costing
                                                 Specialist              LCSHE



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of staff weeks         USD Thousands (including
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                        1.52                           4.51
  FY05                                       33.50                         184.74
  FY06                                       34.06                         143.99
  FY07                                                                       0.0

                             Total:          69.08                         333.24




                                          15

Supervision/NCO
 FY04                                   0.00
 FY05                                   0.00
 FY06                          9.32    28.25
 FY07                          2.11     7.86
                   Total:     11.43    36.11




                            16

Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents


1. Project Concept Note
2. Project Appraisal Document
3. Project Information Document
4. Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet.
5. Implementation Status Report




                                      17

