Page  1
                                                April 17, 1990
H.E. Roberto Pocaterra
Ministerio de Hacienda
Minister of Finance
Republica de Venezuela
Edificio Norte
Centro Simon Bolivar
Caracas 1010
Venezuela
            Re:   Loan No. 3092-VE (Trade Policy Loan) Amendment of
                  Loan Agreement
Dear Mr. Minister:
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement (Trade Policy Loan), dated
October 16, 1989 (the Loan Agreement), between Republic of Venezuela
(the Borrower) and International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank), and to the letter, dated February 9, 1990,
sent to the Bank by Ms. Maria Ocando Troconis, Directora General
Sectorial de Finanzas Publicas.
      We hereby propose to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
(a)   In Section 3.03 (b), second line, the words "F, H and I"
should replace the words "F and H";
(b)   Paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 3 should be modified to read:
      "(b) Contracts for computer equipment to be acquired as part
      of the activities referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement,
      up to the aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, and
      contracts for computer programs to be acquired as part of said
      activities, up to the aggregate amount equivalent to $50,000,
      may be awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
      solicited from a list of at least three suppliers, in
      accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.  The
      amount of each such contract shall not exceed: (i) the
      equivalent of $50,000, in the case of computer equipment; and
      (ii) the equivalent of $25,000, in the case of computer
      programs.";
(c)   In Schedule 5, the following paragraph should be inserted
after paragraph H:
      "I. Audits
      Services of qualified experts that will enable the Borrower to
      discharge its obligations in respect of the auditing of
      records and accounts under Section 3.04 of this Agreement.".
      Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments to
the Loan Agreement by signing and dating the enclosed confirmation
copy of this letter and returning it to us.  Upon your signature and
the receipt by us of the said copy, this amendment will become
effective, retroactively, as of January 1, 1990.
                         Sincerely yours,
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      By /s/ Ping Cheung Loh
Page  2
                 Director, Country Department III
              Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
By /s/ Authorized Representative
      Minister of Finance
Date:    26 JUN  1990
