Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3092 VE
                        (Trade Policy Loan)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated October 16, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3092 VE
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  October  16,  1989,  between  REPUBLIC  OF
VENEZUELA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received  a letter signed on May 16,
1989,  from  the  Borrower  describing  its  program  of  actions,
objectives and policies designed to  achieve during the years 1989
and 1990  a  gradual  adjustment  of  the  trade  policies  of the
Borrower, including measures  to  liberalize  the Borrower's trade
regime  and  increase  the  international  competitiveness  of its
industries  (such   program   hereinafter   called  the  Program),
declaring  the  Borrower's  commitment  to  the  execution  of the
Program, and requesting assistance from  the Bank in the financing
of urgently needed imports required during the first phase of such
execution; and
     (B)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of  the  Program  to provide such assistance to
Page  2
the Borrower by  making  the  Loan  in  two  tranches  and for the
financing  of  services,  training  and  equipment  as hereinafter
provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof  set  forth  below  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
               "'Project' means the  imports and other activities,
          including the technical assistance described in Schedule
          5 to the Loan Agreement, that may be financed out of the
          proceeds of  the  Loan  pursuant  to  the  provisions of
          Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
               "(c)  Not later  than  six months after the Closing
          Date or  such  later  date  as  may  be  agreed for this
          purpose between the Borrower  and the Bank, the Borrower
          shall prepare and furnish to  the Bank a report, of such
          scope and in such  detail  as  the Bank shall reasonably
          request, on the execution of  the program referred to in
          the Preamble to the  Loan  Agreement, the performance by
          the  Borrower   and   the   Bank   of  their  respective
          obligations   under   the   Loan   Agreement   and   the
          accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and
     (c)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means the  Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
     (b)  "Bolivar"  and  "Bs."  mean  the  currency  unit  of the
Borrower;
     (c)  "Non-tariff Barriers" means  any  form of restriction on
imports other than import taxes  levied within the framework of an
import  tariff,  and   the   term  includes,  without  limitation,
quantitative restrictions  placed  by  the  government on imports,
reference  prices  and  import  permits  and  licenses  other than
reasonable measures required under public health or safety control
or customs regulations;
     (d)  "Ministerio de Hacienda"  means  the Borrower's Ministry
of Finance;
     (e)  "GATT" means the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade;
     (f)  "MD"  means  Ministerio   de   Fomento,  the  Borrower's
Ministry of Development;
     (g)  "CKD Unit"  means  a  completely  knocked  down assembly
unit, as agreed between the Borrower  and the Bank for purposes of
this paragraph (g); and
     (h)  "Technical    Assistance    Expenditures"    means   the
Page  3
expenditures to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan pursuant
to the provisions of this  Agreement  in respect of the activities
referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment,  various  currencies  that  shall  have  an  aggregate value
equivalent to the amount of  three hundred and fifty-three million
dollars ($353,000,000), being the sum  of the proceeds of the Loan
with each withdrawal valued by  the  Bank  as  of the date of such
withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. The amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1991, or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing of each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall take any action required
or permitted to be taken  under  the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and  Article  V  of  the General Conditions through
Ministerio de Hacienda.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction  to the foregoing, the
Borrower shall act  through  Ministerio  de Hacienda in connection
with the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan and
for the collection  of  the  documents  and  other  evidence to be
furnished to  the  Bank  in  support  of  such  applications; such
Page  4
withdrawal  applications  shall  to   the  extent  practicable  be
consolidated, in  respect  of  expenditures  other  than Technical
Assistance  Expenditures,  so  as   to  apply  for  withdrawal  of
aggregate amounts of not less  than  the equivalent of one million
dollars ($1,000,000).
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower  and  the Bank shall from time
to time, at the  request  of  either  party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in  carrying  out  the  Program  and the actions
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for  its  review  and  comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out  the  Program, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed  by  the  provisions  of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be
carried out the  activities  referred  to  in  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement and shall provide,  promptly  as needed, all facilities,
staff,  funds  and  other  resources  required  for  the execution
thereof. Without limitation to  the  foregoing, the Borrower shall
complete or cause to be completed the studies included in Schedule
5 to this  Agreement  as  follows:  (i)  the  study referred to in
paragraph A.1 by December 1,  1989;  (ii) the study referred to in
paragraph B.1 by January 31, 1990;  (iii) the study referred to in
paragraph D by December  1,  1989;  (iv)  the study referred to in
paragraph E by September  1,  1990;  (v)  the study referred to in
paragraph H.1 by December 1,  1989;  and (vi) the studies referred
to in paragraph H.2 by December 31, 1990.
     (b)  For purposes of carrying  out the activities referred to
in paragraphs A, B.1, B.3, C, D, E,  F and H of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement,   the   Borrower   shall   employ   consultants   whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Such  consultants shall be
selected  in  accordance   with   the  principles  and  procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on  the  basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
     (c)  Promptly upon the completion  of  each study referred to
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank a copy of such study  and its recommendations, provide to the
Bank a reasonable opportunity to  review and comment thereon, and,
incorporating the Bank's comments in  a manner satisfactory to the
Bank, formulate programs  or  plans  of  actions,  for purposes of
carrying  out  such  recommendations.  Without  limitation  to the
foregoing, the  Borrower  in  respect  of  studies  referred to in
Schedule 5 to  this  Agreement  shall  formulate  such programs or
plans of  action  (i)  in  respect  of  the  study  referred to in
paragraph E, by  November  1,  1990;  and  (ii)  in respect of the
studies referred to in paragraphs A and H.1, by January 31, 1990.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records  and  accounts  adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a)  of  this  Section  for  each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
Page  5
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  four months after the end
               of each such year,  a  certified copy of the report
               of such audit by  said  auditors, of such scope and
               in such detail  as  the  Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
               as the  Bank  shall  from  time  to time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
         (i)   maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
        (ii)   retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
       (iii)   enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
        (iv)   ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and  that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
     Section 3.05. (a) Upon the fulfillment by the Borrower of the
conditions  listed  under  paragraph  3  of  Schedule  1  to  this
Agreement and subject to agreement by the Borrower and the Bank on
the terms and conditions to be  applied in this case, the Borrower
shall have the option  to  use  a  portion  of the proceeds of the
loan, up  to  an  amount  equivalent  to  eighty-five million five
hundred thousand dollars ($87,500,000),  for the implementation of
a Debt Reduction Plan  which  in  the  judgement of the Bank shall
meet the requirements  of  the  Bank's  support  of debt reduction
programs.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section 3.05, "Debt Reduction Plan"
means a plan of the Borrower submitted to the Bank for the partial
funding under this  Agreement  to  reduce the Borrower's principal
payments on its external loans from non-official creditors.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that a situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
Page  6
     Section  5.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower
is consistent with the objectives of the Program;
     (b)  that the Borrower  shall  have  announced  a program and
timetable,  both   satisfactory   to   the   Bank,  for  removing,
restructuring and reducing import tariffs;
     (c)  that the Borrower  shall  have  reduced  the coverage of
Non-tariff Barriers on manufactured items to not more than twenty-
five percent (25%) of  the  total production of items manufactured
in Venezuela, such coverage  to  be  calculated in accordance with
methods and assumptions acceptable to the Bank;
     (d)  that the Borrower shall have removed all specific import
tariffs;
     (e)  that the Borrower shall  have abolished its system under
which exonerations (exoneraciones) are  granted for imported items
from import tariffs, except  that  the  Borrower may continue such
exonerations  in  respect  of  CKD  Units  and  basic  commodities
acceptable to the Bank for purposes of such exoneration;
     (f)  that the Borrower shall  have reduced all import tariffs
so that the maximum import  tariff shall not exceed eighty percent
(80%) of the dutiable value of the item imported;
     (g)  that the Borrower shall have abolished all monopolies or
other exclusive rights  of  enterprises  owned  by the Borrower to
import goods and materials; and
     (h)  that the Borrower shall  have abolished all restrictions
on exports of  manufactured  items,  except  that the Borrower may
maintain  such  restrictions  in   respect  of  basic  commodities
acceptable to the Bank for such purposes.
     Section 5.02. The date  January  16, 1990 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  6.01.  The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the  Borrower
(Ministro de  Hacienda)  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Hacienda
          Edificio Norte
          Centro Simon Bolivar
          Caracas 1010, Venezuela
                                              Telex:
                                                 24215 HDACP
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  7
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
                        By /s/ Sonia Perez Rodriguez
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   Subject to the provisions  set  forth  or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan  may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if  the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in  respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods and, in
respect of Technical  Assistance  Expenditures, services, required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such
proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any  successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as  designated by the Bank by notice
to the Borrower:
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
      112                    -              Alcoholic beverages
      121                    -              Tobacco,    unmanufac-
                                            tured, tobacco refuse
      122                    -              Tobacco,  manufactured
                                            (whether     or    not
                                            containing     tobacco
                                            substitutes)
      525                    -              Radioactive  and asso-
                                            ciated materials
      667                    -              Pearls,  precious  and
                                            semi-precious  stones,
Page  8
                                            unworked or worked
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
      718                     718.7         Nuclear  reactors, and
                                            parts   thereof,  fuel
                                            elements (cartridges),
                                            non-irradiated     for
                                            nuclear reactors
      897                     897.3         Jewelry    of    gold,
                                            silver   or   platinum
                                            group  metals  (except
                                            watches    and   watch
                                            cases) and goldsmiths'
                                            or silversmiths' wares
                                            (including set gems)
      971                     -             Gold,     non-monetary
                                            (excluding  gold  ores
                                            and concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures,    other    than    Technical   Assistance
Expenditures, in the  currency  of  the  Borrower  or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except  that  withdrawals  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $35,000,000, excluding withdrawals for
any Technical Assistance Expenditures,  may  be made on account of
payments made for  such  expenditures  before  that date but after
June 12, 1989;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption;
     (g)  expenditures for foodstuffs;
     (h)  expenditures for  goods,  the  importation  of  which is
subject to Non-tariff Barriers in Venezuela; and
     (i)  Technical  Assistance  Expenditures  when  the aggregate
withdrawals in respect of such expenditures shall have reached the
equivalent of $3,000,000.
3.   No withdrawal  shall  be  made  and  no  commitment  shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or  on the order of the Borrower in
respect  of   expenditures,   other   than   Technical  Assistance
Expenditures, to be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds of the Loan,
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the
Loan Account and the  total  amount of such commitments, excluding
withdrawals and commitments in respect of the Technical Assistance
Expenditures, shall have  reached  the equivalent of $200,000,000,
unless the Bank shall be satisfied,  after an exchange of views as
described in Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement  based on evidence
satisfactory to the Bank:  (a)  with  the progress achieved by the
Borrower in the carrying out of  the Program; (b) that the actions
described in Schedule 4  to  this  Agreement  have been taken; and
(c) that the macro-economic  policy  framework  of the Borrower is
consistent with the objectives of the Program.
4.   If, after  an  exchange  of  views  described  in paragraph 3
above, the Bank shall have  given  notice to the Borrower that the
macro-economic policy framework of  the Borrower is not consistent
Page  9
with the objectives of the  Program  or that the progress achieved
in the carrying out of  the  Program or the actions taken pursuant
to Schedule 4 to this  Agreement are not satisfactory, and, within
90 days after such  notice,  the  Borrower shall not have achieved
progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank
may, by notice to the  Borrower,  cancel the unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan or any part  thereof,  other  than the amount required in
respect of the Technical Assistance Expenditures.
5.   The provisions of this Schedule  are without prejudice to the
provisions of Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
     beginning February 15, 1995
     through August 15, 2004                        17,650,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
   Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years before                    1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of  goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000  or  more  each  shall be awarded through
international competitive  bidding  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
Page  10
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such advertisements should be  placed  in  at least one news-
     paper of general circulation  in  the Borrower's country and,
     in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a  notice  in   the   United  Nations  publication,
               Development Business; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical journal  of  wide  international circula-
               tion; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   (a)  Contracts for goods,  other  than  goods  referred to in
paragraph (b) below, estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$5,000,000 each  shall  be  awarded  on  the  basis of procurement
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
     (b)  Contracts for computer equipment  to be acquired as part
of the activities referred to in  Schedule 5 to this Agreement, up
to the aggregate amount equivalent  to $100,000, and contracts for
computer programs to be acquired as part of said activities, up to
the aggregate amount equivalent to  $50,000, may be awarded on the
basis of comparison of price  quotations  solicited from a list of
at least three  suppliers  from  at  least two different countries
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.  The  amount  of  each such contract for
computer equipment or programs shall  not exceed the equivalent of
$25,000.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan  Account  in  respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such  contract,  together with the analysis of
the respective bids and  recommendations  for award, a description
of the  advertising  and  tendering  procedures  followed and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documenta-
tion and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
5.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs 3 and 4 shall not
apply to contracts on  account  of  which  the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan  Account  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure.
Page  11
                            SCHEDULE 4
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   The Borrower shall  have  reduced  the coverage of Non-tariff
Barriers on manufactured items  to  not  more than fifteen percent
(15%) of the total production  of items manufactured in Venezuela,
such coverage to  be  calculated  in  accordance  with methods and
assumptions acceptable to the Bank.
2.   The Borrower shall have revised its import tariff in a manner
satisfactory to the Borrower and the  Bank to the effect that: (i)
the maximum import tariff shall  not exceed fifty percent (50%) of
the dutiable value of the  item  imported;  and (ii) the number of
tariff rates (niveles arancelarios) shall be not more than six.
3.   The Borrower shall  have  excluded  all products and services
from its system of export bonuses (bonos de exportacion), pursuant
to which  exporters  receive  a  certificate  to  be  used towards
payment of taxes to the Borrower,  and shall have submitted to its
Congress for approval draft  legislation  in order to abolish such
system of export bonuses.
4.   The Borrower shall have drafted and put into effect and, when
required, submitted  to  its  Congress  for  approval, amendments,
satisfactory to  the  Bank,  to  the  Borrower's  legal framework,
pursuant to which the  Borrower adopts antidumping and antisubsidy
procedures consistent with GATT.
5.   The  Borrower  shall  have   established  and  commenced  the
implementation of (a) a duty-drawback regime; and (b) improvements
to its temporary admission regime, both satisfactory to the Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                       Technical Assistance
A.   Customs Administration and Trade Facilitation
1.   A  study   of   all   aspects   of   the  Borrower's  customs
administration, including  valuation,  classification, facilities,
import controls, statistics and trade facilitation.
2.   Implementation of administrative improvements on the basis of
the study referred to in paragraph 1 above.
B.   Accession to GATT
1.   A study on the  legal  provisions  of GATT and their detailed
legal and economic  implications  in  connection with accession to
GATT.
2.   Consultations  on  the  implications  of  accession  to  GATT
between officials of the Borrower and officials of other countries
which have acceded to GATT.
3.   A public seminar  to  be  intended, among other participants,
for officials  of  the  Borrower  and  representatives  of private
sector enterprises, on the  implications  for the Borrower and its
private sector of the GATT  system and trends in the international
trade.
4.   Acquisition  and  utilization   of   computer  equipment  and
computer  programs  on  international  trade  flows,  tariffs  and
Non-tariff Barriers.
C.   Antidumping and Antisubsidy Legislation and Procedures
     Legal assistance  for  purposes  of  preparing  the necessary
amendments to the Borrower's  laws,  regulations and procedures in
order to adopt  antidumping  and antisubsidy procedures consistent
Page  12
with GATT.
D.   Duty-Drawback and Temporary Admissions Schemes
     A comparative study of the  temporary admissions and the duty
drawback regimes of the Borrower  and other countries for purposes
of adopting accurate, transparent  and simple temporary admissions
and duty drawback procedures for Venezuelan exporters.
E.   Agricultural Sector
     A study concerning  the  incidence  of Non-tariff Barriers on
agricultural  products,  and  the  costs  and  benefits  of export
prohibitions in respect of agricultural products.
F.   Restructuring of MD
     Technical  assistance   for   purposes   of   supporting  the
Borrower's restructuring of MD  to  enable said Ministry to assume
new  functions   in   the   area   of   industrial  promotion  and
restructuring, such technical  assistance  to  include training of
MD's staff.
G.   Data Processing Equipment and Computer Programs
     Acquisition  and  utilization   of   computer  equipment  and
computer programs for the  Ministries  of the Borrower responsible
for analyzing, implementing and monitoring the Program.
H.   Industrial Restructuring Program
     Technical assistance in connection  with the restructuring of
Venezuelan industrial  enterprises  for  purposes  of accelerating
adjustment to the relative  price  changes  in connection with the
Program, such technical assistance to consist of:
1.   A  study  of   the   Borrower's  industrial  regulations  and
incentives;
2.   Studies of the  competitiveness  of the Venezuelan industrial
enterprises and of the potential for improving performance and its
socio-economic impact; and
3.   Direct technical  assistance  to  be  provided  to Venezuelan
industrial enterprises for  advising  said enterprises on specific
restructuring and development measures, costs of said measures and
their financial impact.
