FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 137a-UNI
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT
(APAPA EXTENSION)
NIGERIA
June 4, 1973
Western Africa Projects Department
Transportation Division
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents:
Currency Unit  =  Naira (N)
US$1.00         = N o.658
N 1.00          = US$1.52
N 1,000,000    = US$1,520,000
Fiscal Year of Nigerian Ports Authority
April 1 - March 31
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric                       British/US equivalents
1 meter (m)               =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2  = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km ) =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)            = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)           = 2.2 pounds (lb
1 metric ton (m ton)      =  2,204 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CSTB         - Corporations Standing Tender Board
EEC           - European Economic Community
IkWOST       - Low Water Ordinary Spring Tides
NEDTCO       - Netherlands Engineering Consultants
NPA          - Nigerian Ports Authority
NRC          - Nigerian Railway Corporation
SCSC         - Statutory Corporations Service Commission
TPU          - Transport Planning Unit of the Ministry of Transport
UNDP          - United Nations Development Programme
USAID         - United States Agency for International Development
dwt          - deadweight tons
Commissioner - Federal Commissioner for Transport
Government   - Federal Government of Nigeria
Second Plan  - Second National Development Plan (1970-74)



NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (APAPA EXTENSION)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SU2MeARY ....  ........  *..............................              ii
1.   INTRODUCTION         .............................   .... . .            1
2.    BACKGROUND ... ..........          .........                             1
A.   Ports  ..1.......................1
B.  Other Transport Modes. .. .*                                        3
C.    Transport Planning and Coordination ..........                    4
3.    PORT INSTALLATIONS, ORGANIZATION, AND OPERATIONS ..                     6
A.    Lagos Port Installations  ...          ..............             6
B.   Present Organization and Staffing ....... ......                   6
C.    Budgeting, Accounting, Auditing, and Insurance                    6
D.   Operations ................................. *00....               8
E.    Training ......... .o  ...........o  ............                 8
F.   Plan of Action ........................              ...           9
4.    TRAFFIC FORECASTS .... . .............  ........ .. ...                 9
A.    All Ports  ................................                       9
B.   Lagos Port ...................................                    11
C.   Containerization ....               ...  ...  ......  ..... .*......  12
5.    THE PROJECT .................1...........oo........
A .   Ob Jectives . . . . . ..... . .  .  .  . .  .... ..... .  ..  .  . .  . .  .1. 12
B.    Description    ...    . -...           .....      0              12
C.    Cost Estimates  ........             .......... ....             14
D.   Execution   o ...... ...   , ...........   .......                1S
E.   Procurement  .****...*.. .. ..          ..................        15
F.    Financing and Disbursement               ...................     15
G.   Ecological Effects  . ......                         ...... .     16
This report has been prepared by Messrs. J. Grosdidier de Matons (Port
Specialist), M. Dick (Economist), P. Levy (Financial Analyst), and W. Elsby
(Engineer/Consultant). The project was appraised in December 1972.



TABLE OF CONTENTS - Continued
Page No.
6.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...............................       16
A.   General ......................................      16
B.  Alternative Capacity Provision at Lagos   ......     17
C.  Accommodation at Other Ports *.... .............     17
D.   Benefit Calculations and Rate of Return ......      18
E.   Sensitivity Tests ... .... .. *.... .. ..... . . . . * . ...  20
7.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION   . * * 9*******...........    ,     20
A.   Background ......... ..........................     20
B.   Income Account and Past Earnings .............      20
C.  Balance Sheet .....................**                22
D.   Rates and Charges                    .........      23
E.  Financing Plan and Future Cash Flow ..........       23
F.   Future Earnings and Finaneial Pesition ...9....     25
8.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION. .............      27



TABLES
1. Throughput of Nigerian Ports, 1960-71
2. Dry Cargo Traffic-Commodity Composition, 1970-71
3. Forecast of Dry Cargo Traffic, 1971-80
4.  Second National Development Plan (1970-74) - Port Investments
5. Details of CoUt Estimates
6. Estimate of Price Contingency
7. Planning of Expenditures
8.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
9.  Income and Expenditure Accotmts of NPA, 1967/68 to 1979/80
10. Income and Expenditure Account of Lagos Port, 1971/72 to 1979/80
11. Estimated Proforma Balance Sheets of NPA, 1967/68 to 1979/80
12. Source and Application of Funds, 1968/69 to 1979/80
ANNEXES
1. Bank Group Activities in the Transport Sector of Nigeria
2.  I:nstallations at Lagos Port
3. Installations at Complexes of Delta Ports, Port Harcourt, and
Calabar Port
4. The Government White Paper on Statutory Corporations
5. Gang Productivity at Apapa Quays
6.  Nigerian Ports Authority Training Program, 1973-77
7. Plan of Action
8. Present and Future Capacity at Lagos Port
9. Containerization
10. Description of the Project
11. Inflation Assumptions
12. Insurance Costs - Rate of Return and Sensitivity Assumptions
13.  Ship Waiting Time - Rate of Return and Sensitivity Assumptions
14. Tariffs for Principal Services
15. Financial Forecasts - Principal Assumptions
CHARTS
1. Nigerian Ports Authority Organization Chart - 7387
2. Cross-Sections of Quays - 7388
3. Perspective View of Project - 7389
4. Project Implementation Schedule - 7390
5. Forecast of Lagos Dry Cargo Traffic - 7392
6. Ship-Waiting Time Ratios - 7393
MAPS
1. Nigeria Ports System - IBRD 10342
2. Layout of Existing Installations and Project - IBRD 10343
3. Detailed Layout of Quays - IBRD 10344






NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (APAPA EXTENSION)
SUMMARY
i. *After the set-back suffered during the 1967-70 civil war, the
economy of Nigeria has developed rapidly. Although traditional exports remain
lower than before the war, increased foreign exchange revenues from Nigeria's
oil industry have led to a fast and continuing rise in imports.
ii.       Nigeria has four main port complexes for general cargo:  Lagos, Port
Harcourt, the Delta ports, and Calabar. Since the railways and most of the
major roads converge on Lagos and Port Harcourt, these became the most important
ports. Lagos is the main commercial center of Nigeria, and the port's zone of
influence covers the west of the country and extends to Kano in the north and
Onitsha in the east. The hinterland of Port Harcourt is the eastern part of
Nigeria extending to Maiduguri in the north. The other ports have only local
influence.
iii.      During the civil war, Port Harcourt was closed and its traffic
diverted to Lagos which became heavily congested. Despite the reopening
of Port Harcourt, congestion at Lagos was aggravated following the
increase in imports, and is due to the inadequate facilities, equipment, and
operations at the port. In 1971, Lagos handled 75% and Port Harcourt 14%
of all dry cargo. The present optimal capacity of Lagos Port is 3.3 million
tons; traffic handled there in 1971 was 3.8 million tons, however, and is
forecast to be 6.0 million tons in 1980. New facilities are therefore
necessary at Lagos to meet traffic forecast expansion which includes a sig-
nificant amount of container traffic.
iv.       In addition to the physical requirements of Lagos Port, certain as-
pects, particularly financial, of the management of the Nigerian Ports Author-
ity (NPA), a statutory public corporation in charge of all ports in the coun-
try, need to be improved so that it can perform its operational duties ade-
quately. Although the organization of NPA is sound, its productivity could
be improved, and staff need to be trained.
v.        The proposed project, estimated to cost about US$84.0 million equiv-
alent, is based on a feasibility study conducted by consultants SAUTI/Renardet
(Italy/France) for NPA, and consists of: (a) construction of 1,000 m of deep-
water berthage and of port buildings, provision of ancillary facilities,
container and cargo-handling equipment, and dredging an approach channel and
a turning basin; and (b) the provision of expert services, if required, to
carry out NPA's proposed Plan of Action. The measures now proposed are ex-
pected to increase productivity and facilitate project supervision. The pro-
posed Bank Loan of US$55.0 million will finance the foreign exchange costs of
civil works, equipment, and consulting services.



- ii -
vi.       Civil works are planned to start in mid-1974, and to take about
four years to complete. Contracts will be awarded on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding.
vii.      The economic evaluation of the proposed project shows a rate of
return of 22% and a first-year return of 19%, indicating that the project is
overdue. Economic benefits consist primarily of avoiding costly traffic
diversions through other ports both in and out of Nigeria, and also of avoid-
ing surcharges by shipping lines resulting from port congestion. Both benefits
largely accrue to Nigeria.
viii.     NPA's financial situation is strong, partly because the Government
has passed on to the Authority the debts incurred for financing existing
assets at very favorable terms, thereby allowing NPA to build up substantial
reserves. Financial statements however need to be clarified, and agreement
was reached at negotiations on a number of measures to be taken, including
cost-based tariffs, revaluation of assets, and rate of return to be obtained.
It is estimated that NPA should be able to maintain a rate of return of 6%
on its fixed assets. NPA has agreed to consult with the Bank before under-
taking any major port development not included in the present project.
ix.       The proposed project is suitable for a Loan to NPA of US$55.0
million for a term of 25 years, including a five-year period of grace.



NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (APAPA EXTENSION)
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Federal Government of Nigeria has requested Bank assistance in
financing a high priority port project which would consist of: (a) expansion
of the Apapa wharves at Lagos by construction of 1,000 m of deep-water berthage
and of port buildings, provision of container and cargo-handling equipment and
ancillary port facilities, and dredging an approach channel and a turning
basin; and (b) provision of expert services, if required, to carry out NPA's
proposed Plan of Action. The Borrower will be the Nigerian Ports Authority
(NPA), a statutory public corporation responsible for the administration and
operation of all ports in the country. The project is estimated to cost about
US$84.0 million; the foreign exchange cost of US$55.0 million will be met by
the proposed Loan.
1.02      The Bank has had two previous operations in the ports sector of
Nigeria. A project for extension of the Apapa Wharves (Loan 326-UNI, US$13.5
million, 1962) included construction of 770 m of quay wall and procurement er
ancillary equipment. The Borrower's performance was satisfactory, and the
project was completed in 1966.  However, the establishment of a cost-account'r1
system required under the Loan Agreement was not fully implemented, primarily
because of administrative difficulties at the port during the civil war.
1.03      A 1970 project for urgent rehabilitation works in the transport
sector (Loan 694-UNI, US$25 million) included an amount of US$1.5 million
for repair of sheds and warehouses at Port Harcourt, and acquisition of
port-handling equipment for all ports. After a slow start, disbursements
are now normal, and the project is expected to be completed in 1974.
1.04      The Bank has also made five other loans and two technical assistance
grants for the development of transport in Nigeria. Details are given in
Annex 1.
1.05      This report is based on the feasibility study conducted by the
consultants SAUTI/Renardet, and on the findings of an appraisal mission
consisting of Messrs. J. Grosdidier de Matons (Port Specialist), M. Dick
(Economist), P. Levy (Financial Analyst), and W. Elsby (Engineer/Consultant,.
2. BACKGROUND
A.   Ports
2.01      Nigeria has four port complexes for general cargo:  Lagos (Lagos
and Apapa), the Delta ports (Koko, Burutu, Warri, and Sapele), Port Harcourt,
and Calabar (Map 10342). These ports serve Nigeria's population of about 68



-2-
million people, and in 1972 handled about 5 million tons of bulk and dry
cargo, of which 8% was transit cargo for neighboring countries, mainly Niger
and Chad.
2.02      In the past, the relative importance of the four port complexes
has varied considerably at different periods as early river navigation gave
way to the railways which were substantially established by 1916. The port
of Lagos has however always been dominant.
2.03      The large-scale development of the national road network over the
past 20 years has resulted in an increasing volume of international trade
being transported by truck to and from ports. In addition to the railways,
most of the major roads converge at Lagos and Port Harcourt, and these are
by far the country's most important ports. In 1965, Lagos handled 57% of all
international trade, Port Harcourt 25%, the Delta ports 15%, and Calabar 3%.
Total cargo traffic in that year was approximately 3.3 million tons (Table 1).
2.04      Port Harcourt was closed during the civil war of 1967-70, and its
traffic was diverted to Lagos which then became heavily congested. However,
Port Harcourt is now rapidly regaining its former importance. The significance
of the Delta ports has lessened with the recent decline of river transport
(para 2.11). Total port traffic in 1971 was about 5 million tons, of which
Lagos handled about 76%, Port Harcourt 14%, the Delta 8%, and Calabar 2%
(Table 1). The zone of influence of the Port of Lagos is the west of Nigeria
(cocoa exports), and the north to Kaduna and Kano (groundnut exports);
however, the port also collects and services traffic as far as Onitsha in
the east. Tae hinterland of Port Harcourt extends to Gonbe and Maiduguri
in the northeast of Nigeria. The Delta ports and Calabar have only local
influence, and suffer from inadequate access routes.
2.05      Port traffic is increasingly influenced by development of the oil
industry. The oil fields are located in the Niger delta, and oil is piped
to shore and to offshore terminals near Escravos (Delta Port Complex) and
Bonny (Port Harcourt Complex). Oil traffic expanded from 12 million tons in
1965 to 70 million tons in 1970. Imports of oil-drilling equipment help
sustain the moderate activity of Delta ports.
2.06      The Government has decided to develop the ports of Lagos, Port
Harcourt, Warri, and Calabar as national ports, and to improve their connec-
tions to the hinterland. Since neither Warri nor Calabar can compare in
significance nor compete in costs with Lagos and Port Harcourt, their selec-
tion as national ports is mainly to correct the regional imbalance in levels
of development, and the related social and political effects. Provision is
made in the Government's Second National Development Plan (1970-74) to rebuild
the existing two berths at Warri, and to develop Calabar from its present
three berths to five. These projects have however not yet been implemented.
NPA has agreed that it will consult with the Bank on its plans for such iuple-
mentation, and for any subsequent major port development. The timing of the
Calabar and Warri projects is flexible, and it is unlikely that they could be
completed by the end of the Plan period, which has now been extended to 1975.



-3-
2.07      The Government is now considering a port development study for WVicA
financing is being requested from the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP), and for which the Bank is expected to act as Executing Agency. Th'3.
general purpose of the study would be to determine the economically optimum
location and layout for the next stage of development of port capacity in
Nigeria. Its principal objective would be to ensure that the country's
economic development is not retarded by lack of port facilities once those
provided under the present project become fully utilized.
B. Other Transport Modes
(a) Roads
2.08      There are 88,000 km of roads in Nigeria, of which some 17,000 km are
paved. Road conditions throughout the country have been deteriorating over
recent years as a result of generally poor maintenance, and particularly
because heavy trucks are used on surfaces inadequate for them. Extensive
rehabilitation work is necessary, and the Second Plan allocates 70% of its
transport budget for road construction and rehabilitation.
(b) Urban Transport
2.09      Urban road traffic causes severe congestion in the Lagos area,
especially near the Apapa Wharves. A 1965 Bank loan (426-UNI, US$17.5 milliv&
helped finance the construction of a partly elevated four-lane expressway
leading to the Port of Lagos; the road was opened in January 1973, but alr-
it cannot handle present traffic.  A master plan study for metropolitan Lago:
including urban transport aspects, is to be undertaken with UNDP financing,
(c) Railways
2.10      The Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) operates about 3,000 km of
track consisting of two main lines from Lagos to Nguru, and from Port Harc-Zr
to Maidiguri, with a connecting line from Kafanchan to Kaduna, and a branch
line to Kaura Namoda. Although the track is in good condition, part of the
equipment is either defective or obsolete. This fact, combined with severe
deficiencies in management and rate policies, has led to a decline in traffic
and efficiency.  Particularly, the share of railways in the tonnage of gooc.
moved to and from the Apapa Wnarves in Lagos has declined from 47% in 1962
to 32% in 1970. In 1971, CANAC Consultants Ltd. (Canada) reviewed the
situation of NRC, and recommended an investment plan which is being reviewer-
in Lhe Bank to determine whether it could form the basis for future Bank fi-
nancing.
(d) River Transport
2.11      The potential fcr river navigation in Nigeria is less than it min, -
appear considering the country's extensive river system. The restrictions
attributable to physical limitations on both the Niger and the Benue, in



-4-
particular the very short navigable period in some sections, the absence of
night navigation, as well as draft limitations and slow speeds. The civil
war brought already declining river activity to a virtual standstill; present
annual traffic is now about 25,000 t as against 300,000 t in the sixties.
The future of river transport is therefore uncertain. However, tests of new
equipment carried out recently might help overcome some of the present physical
limitations. Also, consultants recruited under a UNDP-financed transport sur-
vey in the Mid-Western State will study the possibilities for increased river
navigation; however, the rationale for the preseat port project would not be
affected by their findings.
(e) Air Transport
2.12      Airports and airfields are the responsibility of the Civil Aviation
Division of the Ministry of Transport. They are generally below modern standards,
and are not well equipped with navigational aids. A Bank mission visited Lagos
in March 1973 to review the Government's program, and to identify a possible
project for rehabilitation and extension of the Lagos-Ikeja airport. All
domestic services are operated by Nigeria Airways, a Government-owned corpora-
tion. The managerial efficiency of this corporation has been low in the past,
but is expected to improve following a recent technical assistance agreement
with the US company, Trans World Airlines.
(f) Shipping
2.13      The principal ship-owner is the Nigerian Shipping Line (NSL), a
Government company which operates 12 ships with a total of 46,000 registered
tons. NSL provides services mainly on the Europe/Nigeria Conference routes,
and also acts as a shipping agent for foreign lines. Due partially to ex-
pensive vessel purchases, the line has operated at a loss despite carrying
a reasonable volume of traffic (750,000 tons in 1970/71). Efforts are underway
to improve its organization and profitability. A private company which started
operating in 1972 has one ship in service and three on order. Domestic coastal
traffic in 1970 totalled about 380,000 t, most of which (200,000 t) was bulk
oil.
C.  Transport Planning and Coordination
2.14      The Second Plan assigns high priority to transport, and the Govern-
ment will allocate much of its resources to this sector in order to generate
the necessary impetus for growth. The priority is justified by the poor
physical condition of existing facilities.  Some of the primary objectives
of the plan which are basic to the selection of projects and of particular
relevance to ports are the following: (a) reconstruction of facilities which
are either damaged or in a state of disrepair and lack of maintenance; (b)
establishment of an efficient administrative service; (c) creation of employ-
ment; and (d) promotion of balanced development between different areas of
the country.



-5
2.15      Trarsport in Nigeria is affected by coordination problems of two
kinds: "vertical" coordination between federal and state agencies concerned
with their corresponding trunk roads, and "horizontal" coordination between
roads and other transport modes, particularly railways. The main "horizontal"
problems are due to the fact that while federal trunk roads have been the
responsibility of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing (FMWH), all other
modes come under the Federal Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Finance
controls all budget allocations. Coordination among the public corporations
engaged in activities in the transport sector is also achieved through reci-
procal membership on the Boards of these corporations.
2.16      The Government is aware of the need to improve transport planning
and coordination, and proposes to re-organize and strengthen the Ministry of
Transport to prepare it for a more active role in policy formation and in-
vestment planning. A new Transport Planning Unit (TPU) has been established
within the Ministry, with consultants (Robert R. Nathan and Associates, US)
financed by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID).
The Unit has already done useful work, and has started to become involved in
highway planning. However, its progress in general is rather slow, partly
because there is no formal body to coordinate the planning of Federal and
State Governments, and partly because of lack of staff and of an efficient
organizational set-up. Major investment decisions are taken by the Federal
Executive Council.
2.17      The main coordination problem concerns transport of bulk export
produce from the agricultural north to the southern ports. An increasing
proportion of this traffic is carried by trucks too heavy for the roads,
although there is evidence that much of it could be carried by rail at a
lower economic cost. The reasons for the diversion of long distance bulk
produce from rail to road include: poor service offered by the railways and
inflexibility in their tariff structure (para. 2.10); laxity in enforcing
road vehicle weight regulations (para. 2.08); and taxes on heavy vehicles
which do not meet the economic costs of road use. The Ministry of Transport,
with the assistance of the TPU, is currently preparing proposals to deal with
these and other difficulties; legal measures to help solve the vehicle over-
loading problem are in the process of being passed. The entire matter of
transport coordination has been discussed in the September 1971 report of
the Bank's sector review mission. The Bank will also use the occasion of
forthcoming highway and railway projects to extend continued assistance to
the Government in improving the situation.



-6-
3. PORT INSTALLATIONS, ORGANIZATION, AND OPERATIONS
A.   Lagos Port Installations
3.01      The port of Lagos is located in a lagoon, and is linked to the sea
by a natural entrance in the coastal sandbar (see Map IBRD 10343). The en-
trance is dredged to 11.0 m at low water ordinary spring tides (LWOST);
maximum tidal range is 1.2 m. There are 2,570 m of marginal wharf at Apapa
(15 berths) that can accommodate ships of up to about 9.0 m draft (about                   A
15,000 dwt). There are also 450 m of wharves at Lagos Customs Quay (3 berths).
Ancillary facilities include mooring buoys, adequate storage areas, quay
cranes, a fishing wharf, grain conveyor and silo, bulk petroleum facilities,
and a dockyard with a floating dock. Annex 2 gives details of the installations
at Lagos Port, and Annex 3 provides information on those at other NPA ports.
3.02      With the decline in rail transport (para 2.10), road congestion
became very severe in the port area about the end of 1971. Since then,
three factors have alleviated the situation: (a) severe measures were taken
by the military authorities to clear the quays; (b) Lagos traffic has been
irregular following the post-civil war upsurge, and following increasing
activity at Port Harcourt; and (c), completion of the access road to Apapa
(para 2.09) and of a truck parking area have improved the flow of road
traffic. The proposed project provides for better road and gate accesses
to Apapa (para 5.05). Road connections with the Customs Quays are heavily
congested, but their location in the center of Lagos does not allow for
improved access.
B.   Present Organization and Staffing
3.03      The general cargo ports of Nigeria are administered and operated by
NPA. Oil terminals are privately operated, but NPA provides services such as
dredging and navigation aids.
3.04      NPA is administered by a Board of 20 members representing various
regions of Nigeria and specific interests such as those of port users. The
Board and its Chairman are appointed by the Federal Commissioner for Transport;
the General Manager is appointed by NPA with the Commissioner's approval. A
local port committee provides liaison with users. NPA Headquarters in Lagos
handles policy matters and coordination between the ports. Each of the four
local port complexes (Lagos, Delta Ports, Port Harcourt, Calabar) has a manager
who is responsible for its day-to-day operations and administration; each
complex has its own budget.
3.05      The Government exercises its control over NPA through the Commissioner
who approves rates and dues and generally directs the Authority. Borrowing and
award of large contracts are approved by the Federal Executive Council. In
addition, a Corporations Standing Tenders Board (CSTB) and a Statutory Corpo-
rations Service Commission (SCSC) supervise the award of contracts and recruit-
ment of staff. These arrangements have been established in recent years as



- 7 -
part of the Government's policy to improve the efficiency of statutory cor-
porations as laid down in the 1968 White Paper (Annex 4); until NPA's per-
formance improves, these arrangements are acceptable to the Bank. Recent
legislation provides for delegating to the statutory corporations some of
the powers of CSTB and SCSC, including award of tenders, and control of
employment and of wage rates. Assurances were provided at negotiations that
these powers have been adequately delegated to NPA.
3.06      The organization of NPA (see Chart 7387) is recent and is considered
adequate. The position of General Manager, after remaining vacant for two
years, was filled in early 1973, and this appears to have given a new impetus
to management. NPA is overstaffed in terms of actual number of personnel
(4,098 officers and 16,800 other staff in 1972), but has been lacking in
personnel of adequate standards and motivation. Recent salary increases
offered to qualified candidates have eased recruitment problems. However,
good top-level officers continue to be overworked. The project includes
provision of a Chief Resident Engineer to assist in supervising construction
work, and other experts to be appointed as determined necessary to implement
the Plan of Action (para. 3.17).
C.   Budgeting, Accounting, Auditing, and Insurance
3.07      NPA is financially autonomous.  Annual and capital budgets are
approved by the Commissioner. Each port complex has its own income and
expense accounts, but there is only one consolidated balance-sheet for NPA.
It is statutory policy that NPA as a whole shall impose charges to provide
annual revenue sufficient to meet: (a) all operating costs, (b) debt
amortization, and (c) maintenance of a general reserve fund for future in-
vestment financing.
3.08      Accounting is done on a commercial basis.  Costing information is
at present inadequate, and the profitability of each port is not assessed
separately. This situation is now being revised and financial studies are
being undertaken with technical assistance provided by the United Kingdom (UK).
It has been agreed at negotiations that: (i) the Bank would be advised of the
outcome of the costing and financial studies, and that improvements in costing,
tariffs, and accounting will be introduced in agreement with the Bank; (ii)
cost and tariff data will be furnished to the Bank by June 30, 1974; (iii)
fixed assets will be broken down between the ports, and separate balance sheets
established by March 31, 1975; and (iv) assets will be revalued by March 31,
1976.
3.09      Internal auditing has been weak over the past years, but has recently
been placed under the direct control of the General Manager. External auditing
has been provided regularly by an independent local firm which was acceptable
to the Government. During negotiations, it was agreed that NPA would have its
accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year audited in accordance
witli appropriate auditing principles. The auditors are now being changed, and
it was further agreed at negotiations that the Bank would be given the oppor-
tunity to offer its comments to NPA and the Government concerning the qualifica-
tion and experience of the auditors being considered for appointment.



-8-
3.10      Provisions are adequate for insurance of NPA's assets, and to cover
its liability as a carrier, warehouseman, or in connection with pilotage.
There is also insurance to cover accidents to workers and illness of profes-
sional staff.
D.   Operations
3.11      NPA's functions include pilotage, maintenance, buoyage, and surveying;
berthing and unberthing of vessels; provision of wharves, transit sheds, and
storage areas; provision of tugs and cargo-handling equipment. Cargo-handling
on snore is done by NPA through contractors; the ship-owners employ stevedore
contractors for cargo-handling on board ship. For the Lagos port complex,
the Government has decided to integrate cargo-handling operations by which
work both on board ship and on shore would be performed by the same contractor
for a given group of berths. Among the contractors, a Government-controlled
corporation would operate more than half of the berths; the company has
already been formed, but operations have not yet begun. It has been agreed
at negotiations that the Bank will be given the opportunity to comment on
future plans and proposals concerning this integration of cargo-handling oper-
ations, and that these comments will be taken into account.
3.12      Labor relations are good.  The labor force, excluding stevedores,
is about 8,000, which is estimated to be at least 30% above normal West
African port standards. Urban unemployment makes chances of labor attrition
nil; surplus labor might be absorbed by increased traffic and construction
of the proposed project.
3.13      Although the overall situation has improved since the war-time
emergency period, operations are still hampered by lack of adequate equipment,
ineffective maintenance, unreliable electricity supply, and poor staff disci-
pline. Productivity is seven tons per gross gang-hour, which is lower than
in many other West African ports. Work is on a 24-hour three-shift basis;
productivity of the third shift, which works only on imports, is below that
of the first and second shifts (Annex 5).
E.   Training
3.14      Although its organization is adequate and its legislation acceptable,
NPA is not as efficient as it should be. This is due to excessive bureaucracy
and low executive capacity; also, in many instances the staff lacks career
objectives and personal motivation, and is not properly supervised. There is
some organized training mainly for technical staff, but its impact on office
staff is not apparent. Action under the proposed project will concentrate
on attaining the objectives of NPA's training program (Annex 6) which is
acceptable to the Bank. The aims of the program are generally: (a) to
produce the desired personnel when these are in scarce supply on the labor
narket; (b) to improve the skills and productivity of existing personnel;
and (c) to improve the motivation and attitude of personnel.
3.i5      NPA is presently advised on cargo-handling by Netherlands Engineering
Consultants (NEDECO), and 34 of the Authority's operating staff are undergoing



training in Netherlands. The consultants have proposed recommendations which
are being implemented only slowly, since they require some adjustments in
established procedures, habits, and attitudes in management and operation.
3.16      Advice on equipment maintenance is provided to NPA by Personnel
Administration International Management Consultants (UK); however, the
availability of equipment is still a low 60%. A target of 80% availability
for cargo-handling equipment should be set for June 30, 1975. As far as
port facilities are concerned, maintenance is fair to poor, a result of slow
procedures and low productivity of staff. Implementation of the training
program (para 3.14) should improve port and equipment maintenance.
F.   Plan of Action
3.17      During negotiations, a Plan of Action (Annex 7) was agreed between
NPA ani the Bank. The Plan sets out objectives, of which the most important
are the following:
(a)  productivity on break-bulk cargo-handling will be increased by
15% by June 30, 1975 (paras. 4.05, 6.02, and Annex 5);
(b)  availability of mechanical cargo-handling equipment will reach
80% by that same date (para 3.16);
(c)  NPA's training program for 1973-77 will be implemented in con-
sultation with the Bank, with a view to attracting and retaining
the required number of skilled personnel, and improving the
quality and productivity of existing staff (para. 3.14); and
(d) NPA will exchange views with the Bank concerning its staffing
and establishment policy (para. 3.06).
In the event that expert services are seen to be necessary to assist NPA in
meeting the targets and carrying out the policies as set forth in the Plan of
Action, or generally to improve operations in areas such as engineering,
planning, or finance, then NPA will consult with the Bank and retain the re-
quired experts. The proposed Loan includes funds for this purpose (para.
5.02).
4. TRAFFIC FORECASTS
A.  All Ports
4.01      The forecasts cover dry cargo only; berth needs for dry cargo
traffic are not influenced by petroleum products or palm oil, since the
former are loaded at specialized berths, and the latter is loaded at the
same time as dry cargo, and pumped directly into ships. In forecasting
traffic through Nigeria ports, it has been assumed that; (a) agricultural



- 10 -
c-ports will recover from the current low levels, but will reach pre-war
volumes only towards 1980; (b) revenue from petroleum will be the main source
of foreign exchange for imports; and (c) growth in the volume of imports will
De. zonstrained by the increase in import prices, assumed to be 5% annually
on average. The regional pattern of foreign trade has not changed signifi-
cantly in recent years, and is assumed to remain constant to 1980.
4.02      Table 1 shows that between 1960 and 1971, the pattern of import vol-
umes experienced the following three phases:  (a) insignificant change between
1960-66; (b) irregular during 1967-69 due to war conditions; and (c) sharp
recovery in 1970-71. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) has grown at a much more
even rate. Consequently, the relationship between growth of imports and
of GDP has varied substantially over the period, and an import forecast based
upon the import/GDP ratio would be very sensitive to the historical period
considered. A further factor limiting use of the import/GDP ratio in fore-
casting the volume of imports is the Government's policy of import substitution.
This is particularly likely to affect high-volume, low-value imports, such as
cement (Table 2).
4.03      Because of the constraint noted above, TPU has had to provide volume
forecasts for imports as well as for exports, based on the assumption that
external trade is equal to the difference between consumption and production
in Nigeria for individual commodity groups. The 1980 forecast volume of
imports (6.2 million tons) resulting from this procedure does not differ
significantly from that produced on the basis of the assumptions stated in
para. 4.01 above. This forecast represents a growth in imports of about 9-1/2%
p.a. over the period 1966-80; it also assumes that there will be a temporary
decline from the exceptionally high 1971 level before growth re-commences,
and thus the growth forecasts for 1971-80 are estimated at about 5-1/2% p.a.
Imports are expected to comprise about 30% basic materials, 30% food, and
40% general cargo.
4.04      Exports have declined over the period 1969-71 from 1.3 million tons
to 0.9 million tons, largely as a result of a sharp drop in the production
and export levels of groundnuts; this latter was partially due to climatic
conditions, but increased domestic consumption probably also played a part.
Con.sequently, export forecasts have to take into account both the potential
for recovery, as well as domestic requirements. Since groundnut products
comprised nearly half of annual exports, pre-war forecasts of a recovery of
total exports to 1.6 million tons in 1980 are very sensitive to groundnut
assumptions, namely that production will increase and be sufficient to provide
for increased domestic consumption and a recovery to pre-war export levels.
h'nis is a somewhat more conservative view than that of the TPU, but the Unit's
projections were made before the recent sharp decline in exports. Agricul-
tural products (of which 45% are groundnut products) are expected to continue
to account for over 80% of total exports.
4.05      Total dry cargo traffic, actual and forecast, is summarized below;
details are in Table 3.



- 11 -
1971      1973      1976       1980
All Ports      5.0        4.8       5.7       7.8
The handling capacity of all Nigerian ports is estimated at 5.2 million
tons (para. 4.07).
B.   Lagos Port
4.06      In forecasting traffic through Lagos, it has been assumed that: (a)
capacity at Lagos cannot be significantly increased without the project; (b)
capacity at Port Harcourt might increase by 20% by 1979 if minor improvements
are carried out on existing installations; and (c) usable capacity of the
other ports will increase by about 0.3 million tons. Lagos throughput in
1971 was 3.8 million tons; however, this was obtained under emergency condi-
tions and cannot be considered normal. Based on present cargo distribution,
capacity at Lagos is estimated at 3.3 million tons annually, assuming an 80%
berth occupancy; with a 15% increase in cargo-handling productivity which can
reasonably be anticipated, capacity would reach 3.7 million tons. Annex 8
gives details of present and future capacity at Lagos Port.
4.07      The significance of imports brings most of the traffic to Lagos,
the main commercial and distribution center of Nigeria. Traffic at Port
Harcourt is recovering quickly from the civil war, and is likely soon to
exceed capacity. By contrast, the Delta ports and Calabar are underutilized
because of restricted river entrances and channels, inconvenient location in
relation to main development centers, poor land communications, and the
decline of river transport. These ports are therefore unable to relieve
the congestion at Lagos, except at excessive costs for inland transport.
Capacity of the ports, and actual and forecast traffic, are as follows:
(Million tons)
Lagos    Port Harcourt      Delta     Calabar      TOTAL
1971 capacity       3.7             1.0          0.8         0.1       5.2
1971 actual traffic 3.8             0.7          0.4         0.1       5.0
1980 forecast
traffic           6.0             1.2          0.5         0.1        7.8
4.08      Traffic forecasts indicate that Lagos should be developed as first
priority, since the rail and road services available there provide the best
communications with the rest of the country. Road congestion in the port
area has already been relieved by various measures (para 3.02), and projects
which are now underway (Annex 1) should prevent the recurrence of congestion
on a major scale. A smaller-scale port project at Lagos, combined with
development elsewhere (for example, at Port Harcourt), would entail loss of
the improved transport flow characteristics that a single large-scale
operation would provide.



- 12 -
C.   Containerization
4.09      The forecast growth in traffic indicates that containeriza ion
might develop significantly. Two major shipping lines from Continen al
Europe and from the United Kingdom have plans for expanding their liiLited
container operations in West Africa. The potential for containerizablle
traffic on these routes is estimated at 750,000 t annually. Feeder ervices
from other Nigerian ports are unlikely, but such services to other A rican
ports are expected to develop, starting with redistribution of empty
containers. Forecast traffic is 500,000 t in 1979 (see Annex 9 on c4n-
tainerization). This forecast may be conservative, but the learning period
in container traffic is long. The subsequent rate of growth of this traffic
will depend on increased familiarity with the system of containerizalion,
as well as on total traffic growth.
4.10      Lagos is at the present stage the only port that can be ecrnomically
developed for container traffic. Sharing the container capacity betleen Lagos
and one other port (for example, Port Harcourt), would offset economies of
scale provided by the use of containers. This would lessen the probability
of container traffic to Nigeria. Since the average throughput of a container
berth is substantially above that of a general cargo berth, the absetce of
container service would necessitate additional port capacity.
5. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives
5.01      The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to provide additional capacity at Lagos Port to deal with
rapidly increasing traffic, including containers; and
(b) to improve the operational and financial performance of NPA,
The project is included in NPA's investment program under the Second Ilan
(Table 4); most of the other items in the program have not been impl?mented,
and need to be revised. The proposed study of future Nigerian port d'velop-
ment (para 2.07) will enable preparation of a long-term study for the sector
in the entire country. It has been agreed at negotiations that NPA w'l1 con-
sult with the Bank before undertaking any major port development not ncluded in
the present project.
B.   Description
5.02      The project consists of:
(a) construction of a new 1,000 m berthage (5 berths) with 13.5 m of
water alongside at LWOST;



- 13 -
(b) construction of transit sheds, a warehouse, service building, road
accesses, rail tracks, and utilities;
(c) purchase of cargo-handling equipment;
(d) dredging of a harbor, channel, and turning basin;
(e) consulting services for construction and supervision of
civil works, including a Chief Resident Engineer (para. 5.08);
and
(f) if and when required, provision of other expert services to
assist NPA in implementing the Plan of Action.
A detailed description of the project items are given in Annex 10. The lay-out
of the proposed installations are shown in Maps 10343 and 10344, and in Charts
7388 and 7389.
5.03      The proposed project would provide the capacity necessary to meet
expected demand of 5.4 million tons p.a. in 1980. Calculations of the oper-
ational need for the berths are given in Annex 8. Both the berths and the
harbor could at a later date be deepened as necessary to accomodate ships
of 50,000 dwt (13.0 m draft). In 1980, a subsequent project resulting from
the proposed port study (expected to be completed in 1975) should provide
adequate capacity either at Lagos or another of Nigeria's ports. The por-
tamner crane and heavy mobile container crane would enable the handling of
two container-carrying ships which may have arrived at the port simultaneously,
while minimizing investment at the early stages of development of container-
handling. The container-transporting equipment would be needed to handle
containers between ships, stacking yards, and vehicles used for inland trans-
port; the light general cargo-handling equipment would be needed to operate
the general cargo berths.
5.04      NPA expects that, with its internal resources and the expert services
already provided, it will be able to achieve the objectives of the Plan of
Action. However, if this does not prove feasible, NPA has agreed that it will,
in consultation with the Bank, recruit the necessary additional experts, for
example in areas such as engineering, planning, and finance. The proposed
Loan includes funds for the recruitment of these experts.
5.05      Present inland transport connections are expected to be adequate at
least until 1980, and the proposed port study will propose any additional
capacity required for growth in port traffic. However, the immediate port
area would continue to be congested until the project roads linking the port
to the motorway system start becoming available in 1976; by that time, the
port area will no longer be congested with non-containerized cargo. However,
since sometime between 1974 and 1976 container traffic could begin to congest
the port area, an inland freight depot (located outside the port area but near
Lagos) would be required for the distribution, stuffing, and unstuffing of
containers. The proposed study will include investigations on development of
such a depot, including road and rail connections.



- 14 -
C.        Cos t Es-imates
5.06      The total estimated cost of the project is US$84 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange cost of US$55 million. Details of cost estimates
are given in Table 5 and summarized below:
(US$ Million)
(N Million)             equivalent             x
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   fFoig&n  Total  of Total
Expenditure
1.   Civil Works      11.56    21.47    33.03   17.57    32.63   50.20        60.0
2.   Cargo-handling
equipment         0.50     2.34      2.84    0.76      3.56    4.32       5.2
3.   Construction
Supervision       0.46      1.36     1.82    0.70      2.07    2.77       3.3
4.   Expert Services  0.27       0.53     0.80    0.41      0.81    1.22        1.4
Subtotal   12.79    25.70    33.49   19.44    39.07   58.51         69.9
S.   Contingencies:
(a) Physical
(12-112% on
Item (1)
above)      1.45      2.68     4.13    2.20       4.08    6.28       7.4
(b)  Price /1    4.82      7.72    12.53    7.33    11.72   19.05        22.7
Total      19.06    36.10    55.16   28.97    54.87   83.84    100.0
(rounded) (19.0)   (36.0)   (55.0)  (29.0)   (55.0)  (84.0)
/1   See Table 6 and Annex 11 for details.
5.07      Costs are derived from estimates prepared by consultants following
detailed preliminary engineering, and are generally based on known costs of labor
and materials for recent port construction work in Lagos, and on present costs
of construction equipment and administration. These costs include customs
duties and taxes. Costs were reviewed after the changes in currency exchange
rates in early 1973. The physical contingency allowance of 12-1/2% on civil
works is mainly because sub-soil investigations have shown that ground condi-
tions are variable. Cost estimates for equipment, consulting services, and



- 15 -
technical assistance are based on recent prices; these costs include customs
duties where applicable. Price contingencies have been estimated on the
basis of a 10% annual increase in local prices, and an 8% increase in foreign
prices (Table 6). Annex 11 gives details of the inflation assumptions.
D.   Execution
5.08      NPA will be responsible for carrying out the project, and has the
capacity to do so. For implementation and supervision of civil wor'Ks, NPA
will employ a Chief Resident Engineer acceptable to the Bank, and consultants
SAUTI/Renardet (Italy/France) and Olaniya, Omotoso, Santos and Associates
(Nigeria). In addition, consultants will be retained as necessary to review
specifications for heavy cargo-handling equipment. All consultants will be
appointed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
E.   Procurement
5.09      Contracts for construction and equipment supply will be awarded
following international competitive bidding. Prequalification in accordance
with Bank guidelines will be applied to major items to be executed by contract,
namely civil works comprising port infrastructure, dredging and buildings, and
the portainer crane. Each bidder will be asked to make a separate offer for
each item of the civil works, and for a combination of two or three of those
items. In view of the nature and size of the contracts, it is expected that
only foreign firms or locally-established branches of such firms will bid.
Local firms are expected to participate as sub-contractors. No preferential
tariffs apply to any item of the proposed project.
F.   Financing and Disbursement
5.10      A Bank Loan of US$55.0 million is proposed to finance the estimated
foreign exchange cost of the proposed project. NPA would provide the
local currency requirement (estimated at about US$29.0 million equivalent)
from internal resources.
5.11      Disbursement from the Loan account would be as follows:
(a)  65% of the cost of civil works (representing the foreign exchange
component);
(b)  100% of the C.I.F. landed cost of imported equipment; and
(c)  the actual foreign exchange cost of consulting and technical
assistance services and of staff training.



- 16 -
5.12      Civil works are scheduled to start in July 1974, and the first
berth will be in service in 1976. The project will be completed in 1978.
(Chart 7390 shows the implementation schedule). Assuming Loan effectiveness
during the third quarter of 1973, project expenditure and disbursement could
be foreseen as detailed in Tables 7 and 8, and sumarized below:
(in US$ thousands)
Bank Fiscal
Year                1974/75 1975/76 1976/77 1977/78 1978/79          Total
Project
Expenditure         11,661  20,293  20,782  20,581  10,526          83,843
Loan Disburse-
ment                 7,500  12,550  15,000  15,000   4,950          55,000
G.   Ecological Effects
5.13      Approximately 6 million m  of dredgings, mainly organic silt, would
be disposed of at sea during construction, and annual maintenance dredging in
sand and organic silt would, as a result of the project, increase ftom
150,000 m3 to 450,000 m3.  It has been agreed at negotiations that NPA would
consult with appropriate Nigerian fisheries authorities and interests with
respect to the possible effects of dumping spoil at sea, and on the location
of disposal sites. The problems of reclamation and of dusting, which often
occur in West Africa when lateritic soils are used, would be avoided in this
case, as the reclamation would be hydraulically-placed sand. Oil sumps would
be fitted at all oil-bunkering connections on the quays in order to catch
spillage.
6. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
6.01      Traffic at Lagos Port grew from 2.8 million tons in 1969/70 to
3.8 million tons in 1971/72, and has resulted in increased congestion; in
1971, ship-waiting time at the port exceeded 2,400 days, or more than 50%
of berth-service time. Although the current decline in export traffic and
the end of the immediate post-war rush of imports has alleviated this
congestion, it will in the absence of a major port development, return by
1976 when the demand for capacity will reach an expected 4.0 million tons,
and will increase substantially thereafter. Recently, threatened freight
surcharges were averted by the efforts of shipping lines to divert traffic
to Port Harcourt. However, as this port becomes fully utilized in the near
future and capacity at Lagos is once more under pressure, the threat of
surcharges being imposed again becomes considerable.



- 17 -
6.02      The project is expected to increase capacity at Lagos as follows:
(a) by increasing the throughput of existing facilities by about
0.7 million tons through increased productivity and better
berth utilization, a result of the reorganization of traffic
flows on the quay (Curve 2 in Chart 7392). This would give
throughputs of over 270,000 tons p.a. for bagged cargo berths,
and 190,000 tons p.a. for general cargo berths;
(b) by providing 1,000 meters of new berthage, or the equivalent
of five berths. Assuming that one berth is used for container
operations and that two handle bagged cargo, the added capacity
would be about 1.4 million tons, of which 0.5 million tons in
container traffic (Curve 3 in Chart 7392); and
(c) by improving operations which would be facilitated by the
increased quay area.
B.   Alternative Capacity Provision at Lagos
6.03      The selected site appears to be the optimum economic solution.
The only feasible alternative location is up Badagri Creek; however, because
of existing industrial development at the water edge, berths would have to
be located well beyond the Apapa quays, involving substantial additional
capital and maintenance outlays for dredging, and for road and bridge develop-
ment. While no estimates are available, experience suggests the total cost
would almost certainly be far greater than for the proposed project. In
addition, the inconvenience of the location would reduce benefits.
6.04      Lighterage does not provide an adequate economic alternative for
the project. The comparative slowness of discharge from lighters to shore
would necessitate extensive additional quay provision (possibly nine times
the project quay length) compared with the requirements of the present
project. Although the cost per meter would be less, the total cost would
probably be as great. In any case, the problems of starting such an operation
virtually from scratch would be substantial, as would those of integrating
it with the existing inland transport systen. There would be increased
hazards to shipping at the entrance to the port, and the probability of loss
and pilferage would be higher.
C.   Accommodation at Other Ports
6.05      In practice, there are a limited number of ports which could handle
the excess traffic. In the Delta, there would be about 400,000 tons of usable
excess capacity by 1980 if additional berths planned at Warri were built.
Outside Nigeria, the nearest port with significant surplus capacity is Tema
(Ghana), since both Lome (Togo) and Cotonou (Dahomey) are either already



- 18 -
fully utili or rna  full utilization.  Tema hias about 1.2 million tons
excess capacity in view of the negligible growth of Ghanaian demand; if Delta
capacity is added, the 1.6 million tons attributed to the Apapa project could
be accommodated. The cost/benefit analysis for the proposed project is
therefore based oni avoidance of use of the Delta and Tema ports by traffic
which would prefer to use Lagos.
D.   Benefit Calculations and Rate of Return
6.06 (a)  The Delta ports are about 270 miles by road from Lagos.
As a25 least 400,000 tons of the traffic projected to pass
through Lagos would be directly consigned to areas for which
the addi tional costs of shipment via the Delta would be small,
say USd.fton-dile, the avoidable road costs attributable to
the prolect are about US$1.1 million equivalent (270 miles x
400,000 zons x USW1/ton-mile).
(b)  Tema is about 300 miles by road from Lagos (no rail connection
ei',.`sts).  Assuming road transport costs are as calculated by the
Bank's 19'1 Transport Sector Review mission, the minimum additional
road costs involved would be US$18.0 million equivalent (300 miles
x 1.2 villion tons x US45/ton-mile). Offsetting this is the fact
that disch-arge/loading costs at Tema are lower than at Lagos by
about US475/ton, to a total of USSI.2 million.  No account has
been taken in the analysis of possible marginal reduction in ship
voyage costs because (a) ships unloaded at Tema might stop
by Lagos enroute to ports elsewhere in West Africa as part of their
normal route schedule, and (b) the inconvenience and time costs
associated with the three land-boundary crossirngs between Ghana
and Nigeria wouLd, in all probability, offset any savings in
ship-steaming costs.
(c)  The total bbenefit from avoiding the Delta and Tema is therefore
US$17.9 million per annum.
(d)  The imFpr..-rved flow characteristics at Lagos Port as a result of
the 1roject have been emphasized in para 5.05.  The consequent
reduction in risks of damage and pilferage that should result
both frova this and from containerization should, in due course,
be reflected in insurance rates being reduced from their current
high liVels.  A conservative assumption of a 10% reduction in
insurance costs has been used; this percentage could be much
greater, particularly if containerization increases more rapidly
than forecast (Annex 12). The insurance reduction benefit has
not been applied to traffic expected to be diverted to Tema
(about i.2 niliion tons), as this is a fairly new, modern port
where cargo suffers little damage. Much of this saving would
be iin Io%-eign exchange.



- 19 -
(e) Summing up the benefits under (a) and (b) above gives a total rate
of return of 22% (on (c) alone, the return is 17%). The first
year return is 19% (14% on (c)), indicating that the project is
overdue. The benefits from avoiding Delta and Tema usage can be
expected to accrue almost entirely to Nigeria, because traffic
would travel by road, and this would require additional vehicle
purchases since the existing truck fleet is heavily utilized.
The reduction in insurance will also accrue over the longer term
to Nigeria in the form of lower delivered price of imports;
however, this adjustment may take some time.
6.07      No separate analysis has been made of the costs and benefits from
provisions for berths, equipment, and dredging. This is because all are
inter-dependent parts of the total project, and any alterations to individual
components would, in such a case, affect the entire scheme.
6.08      In practice, because of the administrative and physical difficulties
associated with diversion to ports outside Nigeria, traffic growth without the
project would probably be accommodated by a combination of diversion and
increased delay. Under such circumstances, the costs would be greater than
purely with diversion, and accordingly the above benefit assessment can be
regarded as conservative.
6.09      The economic justification for the project as a whole is presented
in paras. 6.06 - 6.08. To assess whether the entire 1,000 m extension is
required, a separate calculation was made of the rate of return on the last
200 m (the marginal berth of the extension). In this case, the benefit was
calculated as the difference in value of ship-waiting time with and without
the berth, as it was considered that the difference was insufficient to
induce ship-owners to divert to other ports. Chart 7393 and Annex 13 show
the increase in berth utilization which would result during the first and
second years of operation (1979 and 1980) following optimum utilization of
the berth; the benefit was assessed on the assumption that additional
capacity would be created in 1981 following the proposed port study, and
that the pressure on the marginal berth of the project would be maintained
at a manageable level until 1980.  The benefit from the berth is
lower than would have resulted from the avoidance of diversion to other
ports, but the increment in total project cost between 800 and 1,000 m is
significantly less than the average (because of high mobilization and other
initial costs), and this results in a marginal return of over 40% which is
higher than the average return (para. 6.06). Chart 7392 shows that although
the project is substantial, it provides barely enough total capacity to keep
pace with the expected growth of demand during the present decade. This
underlines the urgency of planning for the next phase of expansion of
Nigerian ports.



- 20 -
6.10      The development of container traffic is not expected to re uce
employment because the stuffing and unstuffing operations and the va ious
operations associated with containerization will generate a need for per-
sonnel to perform those tasks. It will however introduce long-lasti,g
changes in skills and trades; two of these are especially significan:, al-
though not quantified: (a) improvement in the mechanical skills of he
labor force as necessitated by use of more sophisticated equipment a d
repairs required to damaged containers; and (b) establishment of Lag s as
a primary container port in West Africa could well generate addition 1
commercial activity (for example, of an entrepot nature) in a societ
which is strongly trade-oriented and to which benefits from such act vity
will accrue directly.
E.   Sensitivity Tests
6.11      The assumptions on future traffic used throughout this ana ysis have
been conservative. The physical contingencies assumed in preparing ost
estimates are considered reasonable. Nevertheless, standard sensiti 'ity
tests were employed, and it was found that if traffic were 25% less, or costs
15% greater, the rate of return on the project would still be over 2 %.
The project is therefore well justified.
7.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.  Background
7.01      As an autonomous body in charge of all Nigerian ports, NPA has a
single balance sheet, but there are separate income and expenditure  ccounts
for each port. Since the major item of the proposed project is the ort
extension at Lagos, the following evaluation covers the finances of loth NPA
and the Lagos Port complex.
B.   Income Account and Past Earnings
7 02      Income and expenditure statements for NPA and for Lagos Po t over
tlhe period 1970/71 - 1979/80 (actual and forecast) are shown in Tabl s 9
and 10. At present, only the gross operating surplus of each port, iithout
depreciation, can be obtained, because no breakdown of values of fix d assets
between the various ports is available.
7.03      All ports show a gross surplus, and would probably show a iet sur-
plus if depreciation allowances were distributed among them. NPA's (perations
have always generated sufficient funds to service its debt and to male annual
appropriations to reserves; this was so even during the civil war whin imports



- 21 -
were restricted, exports low, and Port Harcourt closed. The present financial
situation of NPA is consequently strong, and is expected to remain so over
the coming years.
7.04      NPA's revenues in 1969/70 and 1970/71 have been inflated by the
lifting of import restrictions, and by distortions arising out of the conges-
tion in Lagos, such as additional charges on cargo stored in port over long
periods, or on ships waiting at anchorage. Revenues from cargo-handling and
storage account for nearly 60% of total income, and marine and terminal
*         revenues for about 38%; these proportions have been maintained for the past
several years, and are considered reasonable.
7.05      Income and expenditure accounts for 1964/65, 1970/71, and 1971/72
are summarized below. It should be noted that 1964/65 was the last normal
fiscal year before the civil war, and that 1970/71 accounts reflect both the
heavy congestion period which increased cash inputs, and import restrictions
during the war which caused a diminution of assets, explaining the high rate
of return. The sharp rise in the operating ratio over 1970-72 was a result
of: (a) constant income, (b) decreased productivity, and (c) increased
working expenditure due to the return of NPA staff to full operational status
(particularly at Port Harcourt) following the civil war, and to the increase
in import costs, principally of spare parts needed for equipment repairs.
(in N millions)
NPA          NPA          NPA        Lagos Port
1964/65      1970/71      1971/72       1971/72
Operating income           20.3          39.2         39.5          23.6
Working expenditure         12.7          25.2        30.9          20.4
Gross operating
revenue                   7.6          14.0          8.6           3.2
Depreciation                 0.9           3.6         3.3            -
Net operating revenue        6.7          10.4         5.3            -
Non-operating expenditure  2.2            5.9           1.2            -
Net surplus                  4.5          4.5          4.1             -
Operating ratio            67%            73%         88%             -
Rate of return on
net fixed assets         12%           7.5%          7%             -



- 22 -
The justification for the bad debts provision which inflated non-operating
expenditure in 1970/71 needs to be reviewed; this is expected to be done
during the next audit (para. 3.09).
C.   Balance Sheet
7.06      The balance sheet (Table 11) reflects NPA's strong financial posi-
tion; however, it needs to be restructured and restated in accordance with
present accounting standards, and to show the financial position of each
port complex. This requirement is included in the proposed Plan of Action
(Annex 7) which has been agreed during negotiations.
Fixed Assets
7.07      Fixed assets as of April 1, 1955 (Vesting Day of NPA) were trans-
ferred by the Government at cost less depreciation; two-thirds of the amounts
recorded were reflected in Port Stock debt capital, and one-third as equity.
Subsequent additions have been included on fixed assets at cost. Although
an annual sum is added to depreciation to compensate for increased replace-
ment costs, it is advisable, in view of the present rate of inflation, that
assets be revalued. Also, the value of assets should be broken down between
the ports, and separate balance sheets which would be consolidated into
those of NPA, should be established for each port complex. This requirement
is included in the Plan of Action (Annex 7) agreed with NPA.
Current Assets
7.08      The ratio of current assets to current liabilities (3.4:1) and
the liquid ratio (3.2:1) indicate a strong cash position. There is no over-
draft; the level of accounts receivable is satisfactory, as are the amounts
of store inventories.
Debt Capital
7.09      Table 11 summarizes the outstanding long-term debt.  On March 31,
1972 the total was N 35.4 million, of which N 21.2 million were mainly Port
Stock due to the Government, and N 14.2 million were external commitments
(including Loan 326-UNI of 1962). The amortization terms accorded by the
Government for redeeming the Port Stock are very liberal; N 12.6 million are
redeemable at the option of iNPA at terms and conditions to be agreed with
the Government, and most of the remainder is repayable at 1% per annum.
Equity
7.10      The equity includes accrued surplus revenue transferred to capital
reserve.  On March 31, 1972, it was N 41.5 million.  The debt/equity ratio
is 49:51; in fact, however, the abovementioned liberal terms of stock and



- 23 -
debt repayment to Government distort the distribution of liabilities between
debt and equity. This will be reviewed by the Bank and the Government
together with the overall financial position of NPA (para. 7.17).
D.   Rates and Charges
7.11      The rate structure is simple.  Considering NPA's cash reserves,
rates appear to be high. However, they are not at present cost-based (para.
7.13).
7.12      The principal charges imposed on ships are for lights and buoyage,
anchorage, berthage, pilotage, and towage. Charges against cargo are mainly
harbor dues, shorehandling, and storage after 72 hours' free time for imports
and from 7 to 14 days' free time for exports. There are no significant
exemptions granted either to the Government or to other users. The last
tariff increase was made in 1969 to meet a large increase in wages. Annex 14
gives details on tariffs.
7.13      Section 5.08 of Loan 326-UNI (1962) had stipulated that NPA should
make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for formulating procedures to
determine the cost of performing its operations and services. This has not
been implemented adequately, largely because of administrative difficulties
before and during the civil war. New arrangements for cost accounting studies
are now being made by NPA, with the assistance of UK experts. It was
agreed at negotiations that: (a) NPA will, not later than June 30, 1974,
furnish the Bank with the cost and tariff data which constitute the basis of
its tariffs; (b) tariffs will not be below the costs of providing the relevant
services; (c) considering NPA's strong financial position, the level of tar-
iffs will not be increased unless in prior consultation vith the Bank.
E.   Financing Plan and Future Cash Flow
7.14      Because Lagos Port assets are not separated from those of the
other ports, a separate cash flow for Lagos cannot be established, and the
figures shown below are therefore for NPA as a whole. During the construc-
tion period of the project (1973/74 - 1978/79), funds required and the sources
thereof are detailed in Table 12, and summarized as follows:



- 24 -
Naira           US$         Percentage
( ' 000)     ('000)
Funds Required
Capital expenditure
Proposed project                   54,103 /1       h2,237           50.9
Suction dredger                     4,000           6,080            3.7
Calabar port project
(para. 2.06)                     4M000           6,080           3.7
Warri port project
(para. 2.06)                     3,000           4,56Q           2.8
Renewals and replacements          32,390          49,096           30.4
Increase in working capital            2,900           4,408            2.8
Increase in reserves for future
investments                         69?00           9p..0            5.7
?06,303        1  61            100,0
Sources of Funds
Internally generated funds            97?569         148,305
Less debt service                  27,931          #2,455
Less income tax payments            8,800          i3376
60,830        -92?474
Plus decrease in cash                   9,281         14,107
Net internally generated funds        70,119         106,581           65.9
Borrowing
Proposed Bank Loan                    36X184          55,000           34.1
106,303        161 581          100.0
/1   The difference between this fiure agp# t;e project coat estimate shown
in para. 5.06 represents the costs of expert services included in the
financial projections under operating expenditures.



- 25 -
7.15      As shown in the above plan, the proposed project represents slightly
more than half of NPA's capital requirements during the construction period;
other possible capital expenditures are indicated in Table 12. The anticipated
expenditures on Calabar and Warri are partly on rehabilitation of old facili-
ties, and partly new development in accordance with the Government's policy of
reducing the regional imbalance in port provision (para. 2.06). Although
completion of these projects was intended by the end of the Second Plan in
1974, NPA now considers this improbable before the end of the construction
period of the Lagos project in 1978/79. As no firm offer of foreign financial
assistance has been received by NPA for the Calabar and Warri projects, it
has been assumed that they will be financed from NPA's resources. The finan-
cing plan in para. 7.14 above shows that NPA will be able to provide: (a) the
entire local cost of the proposed project (about 33% of the total cost);
(b) the total cost of one dredger; (c) the total expenditures on Calabar
and Warri anticipated during the financing plan period of the Lagos Port
project; and (d) its normal program of equipment renewal and replacement,
and of building up of reserve funds. This will be at the cost of a decrease
in cash of about N 9.3 million. It is estimated that, after completion of
the Lagos Port project, NPA's revenue will continue to rise and provide the
necessary generation of funds for completion of the projects at Calabar and
Warri. Assumptions for financial forecasts are summarized in Annex 15.
7.16      Although NPA is subject to income tax at the same rate and with
the same allowances as private corporations, no payment has been requested
in the past. However, based on NPA's assessable profit for 1970/71, a first
income tax payment has now been made for 1972/73; financial forecasts assume
continuous payments thereafter (Table 12).
7.17      It appears that NPA has been able to accumulate reserves under
various headings, for example the replacement fund, taxation reserves, etc.
Transfers to the Government are made through the purchase of stock; nowever,
under present legislation, no dividend payment is considered. It is now the
Government's intention, as expressed in the White Paper on Statutory Corporations
(para. 3.05), to review the disposal of the surpluses or profits of these corpo-
rations. It was agreed at negotiations that, immediately upon determining its
future investments in ports, but not later than December 31, 1976, the Govern-
ment will, in consultation with the Bank, review NPA's financial position,
with particular reference to redemption of port stock.
7.18      The proposed Loan should be made to NPA for 25 years, including
five years of grace; the proposed repayment period of 20 years should thus be
based on the average life of assets to be financed, and should allow NPA
to make funds available for the abovementioned future capital expenditure.
F.   Future Earnings and Financial Position (Annex 15)
7.19      A detailed forecast up to 1979/80 is given in Table 10 and summarized
below for selected financial years as follows: 1972/73, close estimate of
present position; 1976/77, forecast first partial use of Lagos extension;
and 1979/80, full implementation of the project.



- 26 -
(in N Millions)
Rate
of
Operating    Operating  /2 Deprecia-  Net Operating Net  Operating Return
revenues /1 expenditures-- tion             revenue    surplus  ratio (after tax)
Year   NPA Lagos   NPA    Lagos        NPA          NPA         NPA      NPA    NPA
1972/73 42.4 24.9  34.2   23.4         3.4          4.8        2.5      88.6    4.3
1976/77 55.4 33.7  39.9   28.3         5.5         10.0        6.7      82.0    9.7
1979/80 70.4 46.8  44.8   32.0         8.5         17.1       12.5      75.7   12.5
/1   The forecast of operating revenues is based on the traffic forecasts
discussed in Chapter 4.  They are assessed on existing tariffs, and
would provide NPA with funds required to achieve its financial
objectives.
/2   Expenditure forecasts are based on NPA estimates adjusted in accordance
with the appraisal mission's operational findings and traffic forecasts.
Depreciation rates and provision are adequate.
7.20      NPA would thus achieve satisfactory operating ratios, earn adequate
returns on average net fixed assets in use (14.2% in 1979/80), and generate
internally sufficient funds to make a substantial contribution to its invest-
ment program, adequate provisions having been made for increases in expendi-
ture. The expected earnings could even be increased by improved productivity
and consequently reduced costs. However, in order to preserve NPA's profit
earning level, it was agreed at negotiations that: (a) NPA will earn during
the financial years 1974/75 - 1976/77 a rate of return of at least 6% on the
average fixed assets in use, to be calculated after income tax payment; (b)
NPA will achieve in the Lagos Port complex a working ratio of 92% in 1974/75 -
1976/77, and of 85% in 1977/78; and (c) the rate of return to be earned by
NPA in the financial year 1977/78 and thereafter will be reviewed with the
Bank not later than December 31, 1976.
7.21      Forecast balance sheets (Table 11) and sources and application of
funds (Table 12) indicate that NPA should be able to maintain its present
financial position. To ensure that NPA will in future limit its borrowing
to reasonable amounts on reasonable terms, it was agreed at negotiations that:
(i) NPA will not, unless in agreement with the Bank, incur any long-term debt
during the financial years 1974/75 - 1976/77 if its net revenue for the year
immediately preceding such incurrence is less than 1.5 times the maximum long-
term debt requirement; and (ii) NPA will consult with the Bank not later than
December 31, 1976 on future debt limitations.



- 27 -
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, the following principal items were discussed
and agreed:
(a)  with the Government that it will:
(i) consult with the Bank on implementation of
cargo-handling integration in the Lagos Port complex
(para. 3.11); and
(ii) review the investment and financial position of NPA
in consultation with the Bank, with particular refer-
ence to the redemption of port stock, not later than
December 31, 1976 (para. 7.17).
(b)  with NPA that it will:
(i) establish separate balance sheets for each port
complex by March 31, 1975, and revalue assets by
March 31, 1976 (paras. 3.08, 7.06 and 7.07);
(ii) implement a Plan of Action as agreed with the Bank
(para. 3.17 and Annex 7);
(iii) provide the Bank with cost and tariff data before
June 30, 1974, and consult with the Bank before
making any increase in tariffs (para. 7.13);
(iv) maintain through 1976/77 an after-tax rate of return
of at least 6% on its average fixed assets in use,
and review this with the Bank before December 31,
1976 (para. 7.20); and
(v) not incur any long-term debt through 1976/77 unless in
prior agreement with the Bank, and to consult with the
Bank not later than December 31, 1976 on future debt
limitations (para. 7.21).
8.02      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank Loan to NPA in the amount
of US$55.0 million for a term of 25 years, including five years of grace.
June 4, 1973.






NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAoD S PORT PROJECT (APAPA EXTENSION)
Throughput of Nigerian Ports, 1960-71
(Excluding Petroleum, Vegetable Oil and Timber Exports)
('000 tons)
1960     1961     1962     1963      1964     1965     1966      1967     1968      1969     1970     1971
Lagos Imports             1,089    1,012       895      949      952    1,021       981    1,118       935    1,329    2,131    2,537
Import Bulk 1/                                                                                       120      202       270      369
Export Bulk -/                                                                                        23       36        50       71
Rxports                   606       808      750    1,006    1,523    1,113    1,077    1,413    1,472    1,270    1,116         800
Total              1,695    1,820    1,645   1,955    2,475   2,134    2,058    2,531    2,550    2,837    3,567    3,777
Port Harcourt Imports       438       434      491      477       440      477      476       -        -         78       320      606
Exports                   294       394      385      443       374      403      287       -        -          23       51      107
Total                732       828      876      920      814      8&0       763      -         -        101       371      713
Warri 2/                    104       100      1ll      131       126      151      178       102      -          24      302      345
Burutu 2/                   114       101       90      107      115       102       90        23      -         -         34        8
Sapele 2/                    67        48       34       31        20       17       14        10      -                  -        -
Koko 2/                     -         -                   2         4        3        3         1                 13       18       38
Calabar 2/3/                                                                                                      68       90        79
NOTES: 1/ Not available before 1968.
2/ Predominantly imports.
3/ Not available before 1969.
Source: NPA, December 1972
June 1973



TABLE 2
NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (APApA EXTENSION)
Dry-Cargo Traffic - Commodity Composition 1970-1971
(excluding Timber Exports)
('000 Tons)
Apapa             Customs Quay        Port Harcourt
1970       1971    1970        1971    1970          1971
Imports
Cement                          415         646      59         123      107         218
Chemicals                       143         145      10           7       19          76
Cardboards                       32          21        5          2        5           1
Fertilizers                      26          19       1           7        2          10
Iron and Steel                  330         290      15           8       35          46
Machinery                        80         166        5          3        7           3
,,lk                             35          37        6          2      11            9
Paper                            75          54      13           6        3          10
Pharmaceuticals                  39          52       3           2       4            7
Foodstuffs                       55          72       3           3        7           3
Salt                            104          62       7           8      14           43
Sugar                            85         118       5           1       3           31
Textiles                         81          68      10           7       4            1
COthers                         1k05        521      86          87     100          149
TOTAL         1,905       2,271     228         266      321         607
(ocoa                           194         247       2           3                    1
.Jotton                         163          88       1           3       2
Groundnuts                      500         238       4           3       2            6
Palm oil/kernels                120         113        -          -      3289
S3hea Nuts                       16           9        -            
7          o       5           2 6
others                          192          92                          17           12
TOTAL         1,192         793      12          11       53         108
=====   ==       ==          mu      m           =
Source: NPA, December 1972
June 1973



TABLE 3
NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (APAPA EXTENSION)
Forecast of D- Cargo Traffic, 1971-80
(Excluding Timber Exports)
('000 tcns)
LAGOS
ALL NIGERIAN PORTS                                    Available Capacity
Forecast Total            Forecast              Without           With
Dry Cargo Traffic         Traffic               Project           Project
1971 (Actual)    4,971         3,779                3,286             3,286
1972             4,86o         3,470                3,310             3,400
1973             5,550          3,680               3,350             3,500
1974             5,850          3,960               3,390              3,600
1 975            6,210          4,250               3,430              37000
1976             6,520          4,550               3,470              4,100
1977             6,850          4,870               3,510              4,600
1978             7,200          5,240               3,550              5,200
1979              7,450         5,620               3,600              5,400
1980              7,800         6,000               3,600              5,400
Source:  2inistry of Transport (Transport Planning Unit) and Mission estimates,
Dece-mber 1972.
June 1973



TABLE 4
NIGBRA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LWOS FORT PROJECT (APAPA EXTENSIDN)
Second National Development Plan 1970-74 - Port Investments
(Cost estimate.  aa of 1969)
(Naira million)
ITEM                              1970/71          1971/72           1972/73           1973/74            Total
Rehabilitation of Ports
Port Harcourt                             0.66              _-                                 -                o.66
Calabar                                   1.00            0.50              0.50               -                2.00
Bonny                                     0.06              -                -                 -                0.06
Koko                                      0.02              -                                  -                0.02
Deferred Maintenance                      1.36                                                 -                1.36
Development of Forts
Lagos:
4 Berths and 4 Transit Sheds              3.00             3.00             2.00              2.00             10.00
4 Warehouses (including cost
of laxd acquisition)                     0.50            0.50              0.50              O.50              2.00
Mechanical-Handling Equipment             0.30             0.28             0.28              0.28              1.14
Central Office Block, Apapa                -                -               0.30              0.30              o.60
Harbor Craft                              0.10             0.10             0.10              0.10              0.40
Calabar:
2 Berths and 4 Transit Sheds              1.00             1.00             1.00              1.00              4.00
Warehouses                                0.20             0.20              0.20             0.20              M.8O
Mechanical-Handling Equipment             0.08             0.08             0.08              0.08              0.32
Harbor Crait                              0.02             0.02             0.02              0.02              0.Q8
Warri:
2 Berths and 4 Transit Sheds              3.00             2.00             2.00               -                7.00
4 Warehouses                              0.40             0.40              0.40             0.40              1.60
Mechanical-Handling Equipment             0.16             0.16             0.16              0.16              0.64
Harbor Craft                              0.o6             0.04             0.04              0.04              0.18
General:
1 Trailer-Suction Dredger                 0.70             o.60             o.60              0.60              2.50
Sea-going Survey Launch                   0.40                                                                  0 _  0.40
Radio and Survey Equipment, etc.          0.08              -                 _                                 0.08
Buoys                                     0.04              -                                                   0.04
Total                           13.14            8.88              8.18              5.68             2U.86
NOT3: Totals may dot add because of rounding.
Source: Development Plan 1970-74.
June 1973



TAELE S
tdI0ERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS POtT PhOJECT (APAPA EXlElSION)
Details of Cost Estimates
N  000                           USt'OOO ;4uv M t
Local   Foreig     Total               Localr o Total Expenditure
I. Civil Works
(a) Dredgir,g and Reblemetion
(1) Dredging                       1,566.0   3,25h.0   4,820.0            2,380.3    4,946.1    7,326.4                            8.75
(2) Reclamation (including
rubble bank)                   1,181',    ?.640.o   3.824.o            1,799.7     ,.012.8    5,812.5                           6.94
Sub-total Dredging
and Reclamation            2,750.0   5,894.0   8,644.0             4,180.0    8,958.9   13,138.9                           15.69
(b) Land Wwaks
(3) Roads, fly over, parkinga,
stacking areas, drainage,
transit shedr, floors          1,802.0   3,866.0   5,668.0            2,739.0    5,876.3    8,615.3                            10.24
(b) Sheds, varebouse, workshops,
health and traffic buildings    1,660.0   1,650.0   3,310.0            2,523.2    2,508.0    5,031.2                            6.oo
(5) Rail and c-ane tracks            306.0      512.0     818.0             465.1       778.2    1,243.3                            1.49
(6) Services; electricity, water,
sewerage, telephones             380.0      651.0   1,031.0             577.6       994.1    1,571.7                            1.88
(7) Ancillary works, demolition
surveys                          136.0      201,.0     340.0            206.7       310.1       516.8                           o.65
Sub-total Land Works       4,284.0   6,886.0  11,170.0             6,511.6   10,466.7   16,978.3                           20.26
(c) Berths
(8) Piled quay (1,00) m) (in.l
retaining wall)                 1,.526.0   8,686.0  13,212.0            6,879.5   13,202.7   20,082.2                           24.05
Sub-total Berths           h,526.0   8,686.0  13,212.0             6,879.5   13,202.7   20,082.2                           24.05
TOTAL I - Civil Works                 11.560.0  21.466.0  33,026.0            17.571.1   32,62S,3   50.199.4                           60.oo
1I. Cargo-Handling EquiPment
(a) Container Handling Equipment
(9) One travelling portainer
crane                            127.0      640.0      767.0             193.0       972.8    1,165.8                           1.41
(10) Ono heavy duty crane              O9A4      280.0      329.1              75.1      425.6       500.7                           0.59
(11) Two transtainers                  68.6      370.0      138.6            106.3       562.4       666.7                           0.79
(12) Eight container tractors          17.1      124.0      1,1.4             26.4       18B.5       214.9                           0.25
(13) Twenty four container
trailers                          11.6       88.0       99.6              17.6       133.8      151.4                           0.18
Sub-total Container
HEndling Equipment           274.0   1,502.0   1,776.0               416.4    2,283.1      2,699.5                           3.22
(b) Break-bulk Equipment
(14) Six 10 ton mobile cranes          28.8      236.0      261.8              43.8      358.7       402.5                           0.49
(15) Eighteen 14 ton fork lift
trucks                            26.2      212.0      238.2              39.9       322.2       362.1                           0.43
(16) Eighteen 3 ton fork lift
trucks                            20.0      152.0      172.0              30.1       231.0      261.4                           0.31
(17) Twelve 2.5 ton fork lift
trucks                            11.8       94.o      105.8              17.9       112.9       160.8                           0.19
(18) Nine tractors                      9.h       70.0       79.1              11.3      1o6.1       120.7                           0.11
(19) Twemty se,en (15 ton) trailers    37.4       70.0      107.1              56.8       106.4      163.2                            0.19
(20) 12,000 pallets (timber)           91.0       10.0      101.0             138.3        15.2      153.5                            0.18
Sub-total freak-bulk
Equipment                    221.6      844.0   1,068.6              3hl.4    1,282.8    1,621.2                             1.93
TOTAL II - Cargo-Handling lSquipent      498.6   2,346.o   2,844.6               757.8    3.565.9    4.323.7                             5.15
III. Consulting Services
(21) Conatruction supervision         460.0   1,360.0   1,820.0               699.2    2,067.2      2,766.1                           3.28
TOTAL III - Congulting Servisem          160.0   1.360.0   1,820.0               699.2    2,067.2      2,766.1                           3.28
IT. Expert Services
(22) Chief Resident EDgineer           ,0.0       75.0      115.0             60.6       114.0       174.6                           0.61
(23) Othwer lprt Eervices             230.0      455.o     685.0             319.4       691.6    1,1t1.0                            0.83
TOTAL IV - EXpert ServicgE                270.0      530.0      800.0             ,10.0     8_5.6    1,225.6                              .4h
a                                      Sub-total I - IV           12,788.6  25,702.0  3B,49O.6            19,138.5   39,067.0   58,505.5                           69.87
V. Contingencies
Pbyaical (l2A  on items  (1) to (8))  1,145.0   2,683.3   4,128.3           2,196.4    4,078.5    6,271.9                             7.43
Price (see Table 5, approx. 37.7%
on loral 29 9% on fwreign -
itme (lM to (2h))                  4,822.2   7,715.5  12,537.7            7,331.3    11,727.5   19,058.8                           22.70
TOTAL V - Contingencies                6.267.2  10.398.8  16,666.0             9,527.7   15.806.0   25,333-7                            30.13
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   19,055.8  36,100.8  55,156.6           28,970.2    5h,873.0   83,813.2                           1000
........  .... .... .. _ ........      ...... ..      . ........
Source, NPA and Mission estismates, December 1972.
June 1973



NIGEA                                               TABLE 6
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (ApApA EXTENISION)
Estimate of Price Contingency by Calendar Year
(US$ '000 equivalent)
Foreign       Local
1974    1975      1976     1977     1978       Total  Exchange       Currency
(a) Costs at resent prices: Civil Works
Foreign                          1,935.0  7,750.0  7,750.0  7,750.0  7,443.3              32,628.3
Custo"s Duty                       197.0    787.7   787.7   787.7   756.5                               3,316.3
Cargo-Handling Equpint
Foreign                                            2,250.0  1,315.0                        3,565.9
Customs Duty                                         235.0   143.8                                        378.8
Coneutlng Services
Foreign                            130.0   490.0   490.0   490.0   467.2                    2,067.2
Customs Duty                         1.8      7.2      7.2      7.2      7.0                               30.4
Exper Servicea
Foreign                            164.o   164.0    164.0   164.0   159.6                     815.6
Customs Duty                        nil      nil      nil      nil      nil                    nil          nil
Sub-total                    2,427.8  9,198.9 11,683.9 10,658o6 8,833.6   42,802.5  39,077.0    3,725.5
(b) Price contingency at 8% p.a.             191.0  1,523.1  3,003.8  3,819.2  3,369.9   12,913.3  11,683.5      1,229.8
(c) o     t  rsent  rces (eludig
Custoiiis Duty): CiviI Works
local                              864.0 3,385.0  3,385.0  3,385.0  3,325.0                            14,254.0
Cargo-Handling Equipment
Local                                                176.0   203.8                                        379.8
Consulting ServiQes
Local                               43.0   158.0   158.0   158.0   151.8                                  668.8
Expert Serviees
Local                               82.0    82.0      82.0    82.0      82.0
Sub-total                      989.0  3,625.0 3,801.0  3,828.8  3,468.8   15,772.6    nil          15,772.6
(d) Price contingency at 10% p.a.            104.0    788.2  1,285.1  1,814.7  2,275.5     6,267.5    nil         6,267.5
(e) Price contingency payable in foreign exchange - 11,683.5 on 39,017 - 29.9% approx .ate.
(f) Price contingency payable in local currency - (6,145.5 + 1,229.8) - 7,375.3 on 19,560.1 - 37.7% approxdmate.
Source: Mission estimates, December 1972
June 1973



NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (APAPA EXTENSION)
Planning of Expenditures
(US$ 1000 equivalent)
Bank Fiscal Year              1974/75    1975/76       1976/77     1977/78    1978/79      Total
Civil Works                    10,998       16,513      17,312      18,536       9,658    73,017
Cargo-Handling Equipment          -          2,620       2,250         755         -       5,625
Consulting Services
(Engineering Supervision)       557         785          845         915         493     3,595
Expert services                    106         375         375         375         375     1,606
TOTAL               11,661       20,293      20,782      20,581      10,526    83,843
=sfX-5  =1==>X  X:1==   SS"_*S=      =s===    ==-~==-
Source: NPA, December 1972
June 1973



TABLE 8
NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (APApA EXTENSION)
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                    Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter &iding                                      at End of Quarter
(uS$  0ooo)
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                         1,875
December 31, 1974                                          3,750
March 31, 1975                                             5,625
June 30, 1975                                              7,500
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                        10,640
December 31, 1975                                         13,980
March 31, 1976                                            17,130
June 30, 1976                                             20,050
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                        23,800
December 31, 1976                                         27,550
March 31, 1977                                            31,300
June 30, 1977                                             35,050
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                        38,800
December 31, 1977                                         42,550
March 31, 1978                                            46,300
June 30, 1978                                             50,050
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                        51,300
December 31, 1978                                         52,550
March 31, 1979                                            53.,800
June 30, 1979                                             55,000
Source: Mission estimates, December 1972
June 1973



21OlRZ A
APP8JUL OF S3DO  1"AS PORE MCM  (APAPA YX11SMU)
Inca and txOeaditure Accouit. of SPA. 1968169 to Ig79/80
(Nairn '000)
------------ A C T U I L ------------------=   ISTD%        ----_-------------             ------ F O 9 It C A S T ---------------------------------_ ---____
tg67/68 1/    196869 1/   1969/70 2/   1970/71 !/   1971/72 Y/   1972/73 9/   1973/74 Z/   19T4/T5  i  1975276 1"    1976/77            t 1977/78T  Y   19i36/7  Y/   1936/50 !/
|orts                                                                 10:d492      12,870        19,092       23:670        ?5,80        27,700        29,200      30,900         33.8S        36,100        39,600        43,'0
pareciXtla     ztgotSu-T                                  1452         11,5i      11,10                        9142 12,300                1,3600       17,200      18,100         I9,900       21,400        23,586        25,400
Sundries         452                         414         1,104          %2          1,300        i :400        1,600       I'~~~~~~~~~~1800  1,700     1,700         1,900         2,000
or___                           16Jt  2,0t8   1 0          26,212 3o9, t2 365oO       32            1400   12 EDooo   t2 60o    3              35                  t5 Soo45.1D  4     6,0oo   t7 5o
14,7T4        5,226        6,002        12,284       16,1264       17,BOO        18,300       18,700      19,600         20,600        21,500       2,00           3,300
sbW~~~~~~~~~~~~ 29,2                  t4,526       tT62          2.3            ,2          3,a          3S05          448         429s 5,,82 9o                             20@305        53.300
Porte                           14,292        4,C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  5,990 ~~~~~~~~ 9,1014  9,600  10,600      11,00        11,200       1   M80       12,1400       12,700        13,300       114,000
General administration                                   2,376         2,126        2,260         3,800        5,254         5,800        5,900         6,100       6,400          6,600         6,900        7,200         7,500
Technical aaaistance and training                         -              -            -             -            -                           165          288         3149           262           320           65           -
Operating cabr-outgoinge Sub-Total                      11,2          11,404        4,252        25,188       30,978        34,200       35,365        36,28       38,14,9        39,882       41,420        42,865        44,800
o        rabical coat                                        16           2,cs6146     2,200         2,250       2h,92          2,400         2,600        3,900       3,500          4,10          5,100      61,89           7,000
Covqle.uStary                                             -              700        1,200         1,300              6000    ,000         1,100         1,200       1 ,300         1,400         1,500        1,50          1,500
Los an diosrle   of fit  d assets                           4             12 22      '6             67200
Sub-Yotai                       2,020          2,858        3,400         3,550        3,260         3,b0         3,700         5,200       14,800         5,500         6,600        7,500         8,500
Total                          13142           1426        17,65         28.7         3_4.2_38      37,600          L          140,1486    14,             45.382      148.020)      II            D.20
M V, gu  Revenue                           ~~~~~~2.876     14.10        6.6          10,L9-8        5.294       14,800        6.35          7,512      _7,851         10,018        11,180       14.63         17.100
Net reieaue  surplu7 (IBRIt                            21,950          1,926        1,824         2,046        1,832         1,680        1,406         1,923       2,594          3,097         3,89,0        4,065        3,863
Rlevenues                                                 678            719          9114        1,178        1,P371        1,200         1,210        1,205       1,206          1,190         1,184        1,175         1,175
Ravetne* on  sinking fOd                                   146            55           62            72b          89            50           102          112         122            131           14t4         154           164
Not1 interest chargea  Sub-Ttl                             22 d                                                                               94          606        1,266          1,773        2,562         2,73- 44,924
Not  =lux                                    i~~~~~~~~~,650  2,956      7,712         9,702        14,922        14,47        6,241         6,908        6,585         8,245         8,618        11,899       114,576
ProvIsion for bad and doubtful debts                           68           212            74          988           -            -
Provisimn for into"e tax paymmit ~(-600                                                3,000         3,578           800        2,000         1,1400       1,200        1130(         1,5(30        1,700         2,000        2,200
Previous year ad.juetaent.                                    124)         (222)          660          672           -            -                    -                                        --                 ---
E chas       u profit                                      (1,2195)         -             - 2 7      5 5           5,488
NoSt RS"MrI, Somip,                                        2,920         2.366        3,978        14,614        14,122        2,1470        4,841        5,T06        5,2a5          6,7145       6,918         9,899        12,376
RconcOiliation sitb _A Account
Not revenue aupu   IMO)                                  2,920         2,366        3,978         14,464       4,122----                                                                           ---
Loses loan a.otis.ation of the year                      3,822           640         1,156        1,592         1,244                                                                                              
less net revaozn surplus applied to capital purposes       -             -             141        2,942           ----                                                               ----
Plua not eurplee brought forw#rd                         1,958         1,0514       2,780         5,558         5,1488                       ------
get surplus  carried by SPA to balance sheet             1,056         2,780        5,558         5,48a         8,366                       -            -                    -             -                    -            -
Ratios
dRrating S                                                82,4          77.6         67.3         73.2           86.6        88.6           86.0o       o4.3         8.5             82.2         81.1          77.4         75.7
Average net value of fixed assets in use (1/ (5/       58,632         57,980       56,703        59,302        63,371       64,716        65,616       63,956       63,5L6         69,725       go0,67        109,518      123,772
Turnover (grosa operating revenue an % of averiage
net fixed asets in nu                27.8          31.7          46.2        66.1           62.3         65.5          69.1         75.0        80.0            79.0          65.7          5Y.3        56.9
Return on average fixed asset, in us s                     4.9            6.o          9.8         7,5            7.0          4.3           7.5          9.8        10.3            12.2          10.5          11.6        12.0
Times interest charges coverd to, net operating
reveut             1.5            2.1          4.7          5.1            2.9         2.9            b.5         3.9          3.0             3.3           2.9          3.6          4.14
Times lebt service covered by cash generated from
o_erations                         2.7          b.0          b.6           2.8          l.8            2.8         2.7          3.2             3.5          3.3           3.5          4.o
Note, Figures for 1967-70 ay appear distorted because of effects of civil war.
1/ IAgoe, Port Harcourt, EsOY, 40s0. msoele,
2/ Ls,m  Po-t Firroort, Freo', Cnaliber, Koko, FPale, Burutu, Warri.
2/ Assumed average throughout period.
4  TShe assets included in the project are constdered brought Into use as follows: 1/6 sS of March 31st 1977, 4/6 as of March 31st 1978, 6/6 ar of March 31st 1979.
_/ The assets included in thU  Dredgr-Calabar-larri ports projects are conaidered as hrought into ose w5 follows, dredger March 31st 197b; Calabar-Warrt at the e,d of the financial year rolloying thaI in Which
toe expenditure is included in the accounts.                                                                                                                                                                                          1
6/ Calculat-4 after incoaie tax pavsent; a*sets evaluation at historical cost less deprecistion; rate of return will be reviewed after assets revaluation (pars. 7.20).
June 1973



NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJFCT (APAPA EXTENSICN)
Income and hxpenditure Account of Lagos Port, 1971/72 - 1979/80
(Naira '000)
1971/72     1972/73     1973/74     1974/75     1975/76     1976/77     1977/78     1978/79     1979/80
Operating Revenue
Quays                17,091      18,846      20,257      21,348      22,450      25,354      27,314      30,1461     33,496
Harbor               _B8          6,091       6,492      .,           7,296       8,383       9,618      11,248     i1,658
TOTAL               23,579       24,937      26,749      28,192      29,746      33,737      36,932      41,709      46,154
1:,906      13,900      14,086      14,585      15,295      16,066      16,788      17vl09      18,175
5.-, r.   A32  7,020    7,235       7,421       7,808       8,209       8,408       8,806        9,270
3520   -      8                     3,5'        4,088 s     4,1o6       4,370       451
20,392      24,h41      25,102'    25,708       26,988      28,281      29,384      30,585      31,996
Gross operatinT
surplus               3:,187       497                    2484        2,758                   7,548      11,124      14,158
1/  Including overheads   '-d head office expenditure.
Source: NPA, December 1972
June 1973



~~WSL1SAL ~    1 I3  O IA  13  IJE   rAAIsnm
lstiitad Pro-FTrma OLu,e mbeet of WA. 1967/68 to 1979/80
(Val" '000)
Tsar Cnilj.g *sreb 311t  ---  ---&cm,- -F-   0--  U1X1U    g   C         S-- -------------------------------___----_____A
roar _hu g hb 31 at
1 67/6      196669    1969/70        1970/71       171n2         7/        1973/7T,           1976/75  I         1976/77?    1*mns         7i822    l79/80
?lzd Assets
~~~~~~~-rw.'us 'sin.) ~~~~~~~76.,6                   76,076      60,186       90,166        95,138      99,536      106,038     166,116      112,2.38     i26, 7,5 %,2             ;129,527     M
left _spesclum                                     18,038       20,750     24,110       27 662       30,922       34,322      38,022       42,222      147,O22      52,522       ,1 22      '1,622       7,1122
AWtL n1 memo  In i1                                58,632       57,328     56,078        62,526       66,216       65,216      66,O16       61,896       65,216      7k,233     105,901     113,135      1341,hO9
t ps  o    (grss 's_  )                        -            -           -            -            -            -             -         lt11,22     25,786       30,195     16,63l       17,2714        -
leal _t !!LA                       586,632      57,236     56,076        62,526       66,216       65,216      66,016       76,018       9,002        ,A62      122,336     130,60D      134,119
Invs ,nt (at e.t)
of Eearit Stock                         2.8W0       3.600       4,108        4,108         3,600       3,600        3,600       3,600       3,6          30           3,600       3,60-        3.600
Fixd _sJM rsrd                                      2,382        2 716      2, 77         2,778       86,000        6,0         9,000       10,000      11,0oo       12,000      13,000       14,000      15,OCO
?ots.1                              5,182        6,376      6,886         6,886       11,600 1w1600            12,600       13,60o      14,600       15A6a0      16,600       117600      18,600
Defrredh IntMincd daxmt                                   54           *          54           5i           51          51,          51, 54                   54          S1           51           54          54
Otarr_t lst.
1,506       1,296       1,656        1,60          1,360       1,606        1 700       1,750       1,800        1,850        1,900       1.950        1,950
Dibtme                                              2.715        3,636     13,A,0         7,850        6,3221      6,386        77200        6,30D       8,300        7,700       7,600        B,040       8,000
3menit                                                -            -          -             km0           w     00 kw             -   .                    -            -           -            -           -
Cub SMIA Dmnk teIinc.                         10,890       12,766     16,31O        26,2,        20,33,       16,963       13.727       9,9A)       10,167       6,590       6,929        6,929       11,368
Total currrt assets                15,152       17,61,     33,606        35.658       26,09h       22,602      25,98t       21,770       20,664      19,717      16,090       16,879       21,318
arut liblties
c~'atws                                            ,4350         4,526     13,366        10,229        5,410       6,1,         6,766        5,226       6,716        5,70        5,166        5,166       6,550
O _tstadin   dqjopitt                                 121          110        50D           612          350          m           200          2*0         320          310         350          350          boo
Outw                                                3,566        33114      3,51,          4,7t15      2,OO          938         800          950         950          675         850          8O0 0,
Total currt liabilities             7,916        7,982     17,360        15,586        7,760        ?,658       7,766        6,616       8,e026       6.916       6,366        6,316        9,950
not eCrret as_te                                       7,236         9,662    16,226        20,072       1833         1696j914     18,215      15 361       12,038      12,60         9,72t      10,563       11,368
p,111i       73,4,22    79,266       899,538      96,206        93,811,    100,62       1(5',033    117,69),    132,863      11,,716      158,626     164;4130
F     lUMC0 Frlt                                        ._.....w,,                                                     ,                        _,_        ,,,          ,,             ,,__ 
ZZ           fi r asset pat stock  d aisies
aecoate       21,900       21,900    21,9ga        21,900        21,900       21 900      21,900        21,900      2 l0         21 6980     21.90        21 J90      21,90
Lem red_ pUm                                    3,28a         3,1,82    3,684         3,89b        4,124        4 41b,      b,656         4,908       5,170        5,66         5,728       6,a22        6,326
Coq,smtim re-asets sdor pas                       -             -         -           3,bb6        3,446        1,913         971           -           -            -                        -            -
9iSItrlim 198A083                                   7,286         7,286     6,800         6,314        5,a28        5,312       4,a56         6,370       3,866        3,398       2,912        2,426        1,91,0
;sm                                               236           194       150           102           66          -           -             -           -            -            -           -            -
TM 326 MI                                       9,0a4    8     ,6714     6,250        7,            3,6         6,866        6,,360       5,66         5,324       4.152        h,14,6      3,5X(&       2,026
n17 694, U! (rdaiiZ Ctati, lou.)                 --                       -             -            98a        1,988       1,96          1,934       1,680        1,826        1,772       1,716        1,661
D 2sd Part Project                                              -         -             -            -            -           -6810                   13,51o      23,510       33,865      36,161       35,359
Total l        qpital              3 278         34.572    33,416        35.668       35,412       33          31.447        34,002       41 ,S8      b9.42        5.8,7       59.710       517323
DefrUled sift.o5D                                       212           210       210           210          210          210         210           210         210          210          210         210          210
T~tj      reev                                         9,1Qo         9,70D     12,700       16,278        17,078      16,000      16,000        16,000       16,O00      16,000       16,000       16,000      16,0O
Eiidty ~eqiitxlm-t
1&**prll 1st 1967                                  21,696        21,696    21,696        21,696       21,696       21,696      21,696        21,696      21,696       21,696       21,696      21,696       21,696
Reserve amd rymue account                           4,878         7,2411    11,222       15,686        19,808      22,278       27,ig9       33,195       38,430       46.635      51,963       61,020      69,201
Total equity7                                    262,s0    32,916       37,382       41,5(1                   h.115         5            60,126      66.7 I       73.6Ss9      82716       90.897
71o,14       73,1422    79,21,       89,538        94,20G      93,811,      96,767     1-5,033       117,694,    132,883      11,,716      158,626      16h.43o
Ration
wrot assetts to carnt liaities                    1.9/1        2.2/1       1.9/1       2.3/1         3.W1         2.9/1       31/I         3,1J         2.5'1       2.8/         3.3/1        4,8/1       h,,
Liqaa, aets to currant liabtias                     1.7/1        2.0/1       1.9/1       1.8/1         3.2/1        2.7/1       3.2/1        3.1/1        2.3/1       2.6/1        3.0/1        4.5/1        4.3/i
June 1973



I X02R IA
APMAI8AL (i BMW lAmE PMT POWT (dA MUWIsMMW)
a..,. *sd 4hanmitde  of lmb. lb669  to 9792/0
1968M/9      1969/20        1970/71        1971/72        1972/73        1973/74        1971/15        i76             19769 1S77/78                   V79       197V879     l
Year .- -rx llwcb 31st 
1, 370       26,212         39,236         39,532         142,14C0       h45,lD         48,O0          50,800         55,200         59,200         65,0W        323,600    70,1j
Lr ase mf  pratit  mt-si                             1t-o           1Pb25          25.188        30.978    3      4.20     D      35,65       36,288         38,1t9   39i8w             i 4     10        42.           ad6s 139 IW.l1
Hot 4 aeS   asnar 0   from   Oparti                    6  966       11.960         14    8 8                     0 8.200       10.035         11,712         12,651         15.13B         17,780         22.135         _.31      256
I:tweret roedvable                    7N                         S      6    1,25                 1 h60    1.3iD    t,312  1,31-7                        1     ,328          WA      2 1 1 .329  7    3ia2n
L.t_W   bonlg
IIIOD  *d PorL Pro3t                                -             -              -.             -             -              -            14,81,o        8,700          9,970         1',.335         2,39         36,18"        -
C    m         -as       n  PIt loan                -             -            3,46             -              -              -             -              -              -                             -            -           -
I   rabblitwti        a                             -             -              -              988          1,40D            -             -              -               -             -              - _                      -
T?Ua 2,g tWa borrow1g                               -             -            3,1bb6           968          1,0                            - _ 
Total fSeAd available                    7,740        12,936          18,71.14       11,002         10,550        11,3147        17,869         22,679         26,612         29,83          25,803       133,753     26,939
AnclctL        e f fud
-iF  -let  -reset  _  _      _-_                           _              _            7,6o2         13,140         13,b26         15,ff0          4,a7         54,10         -
16_ld#r  -    -              -               -             -              80o          2,4eo          1,800            -            2,00D          4,0D         11 000      4,000
R8hl rnland repqlAemnts                          1,5S6         2,150          10,000          4,950          4co            3,7 4o00    S  4200          1480            5,50D          A.600          7,50o       32,30D  B       w
Cal cpital evwdtt,S               S                    2,1540Ii,i                                                   k             142.Z92   4 i2,c              la             2              1            91.16b3    12l.500
Debt ewvm
1,926        1,8214          2,04b          1,832          1,680          1,4e06         1,923         2MSS4           3,097          3,890         I1.066        16,975      3,863
.,wtjaa,,.,~                                             141)S           1,194          1,2b4          2.782          2,188         2,200           ,344          1386           1,430          2,j26        tc,956      2,3.37
Total debt wvi                                                                         3,076                                        4.46z 3         ,0 3  3,3                5     206                      27.931 
(decr,am)  to,'k86g                            530         1,040          (4,o0o)         4,176         2,73h             400           500            500           5a             500           Sc          2,90s       5c
_in raA _r            __ n u or   mr. nves__nts      1,196           508                          4,14             -            1,000 a,c oo,oo                             1,000          1 OS0          1,.000        6,000     1,800
I =%  Ikz 002100                                         -             -              -                          3,078          1,100          1,200          1,300          1,500          1W0            2,IxD         8,800      2,200
P.visin  rw bad and dobtrl debts                        212            74             908            -             -              -              -              -              -                             -            -           -
Prev,m.s year .d1este                                  (222)          660             672                                          -                     -                     -                     -                    -
ttl n13dS eo,,uAd                        5,844         7,412          10,8C6         16,916         14,671         10,594        21,105         26,442         26,409         33,020         25,146       1143,034    22,500
Ca.m surplus (deflait) of theo year                      1,89          5,5214          7,938         (5,9114)      (14,1214)         753         (3,236)        (3,763)           203         (3,577            339        (9,28)    k,439
PA,s cash (bali b ce                                    10,890        12,786          18,310         26,248        20,33bb        16,210         16,963         13 727          9,9634        10,167          6,590        16,210      6,929
Cads huIrno carried ftrmrd                              12,786        18,310         26,248          20,334        16,210         16,963         13,727          9,964         10,167          6,590          6,929         6,929     11,368
Jme 1973



ANNEX 1
Page 1
NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (APAPA EXTENSION)
Bank Group Activities in the Transport Sector of Nigeria
Apart from the 1963 port loan (326-UNI), the Bank Group has made
six loans and one credit for the development of transport in Nigeria, as
well as two technical assistance grants. Details are as follows:
193-UNI (1958) - Railway Loan
A US$28 million loan to help finance a five-year development
program of the Nigerian Railway Corporation. The loan provided for the
supply of diesel locomotives, rolling stock, workshop plant and track
equipment.
Credit 73-UNI (1965) - Northern Roads
A US$15.5 million credit for the construction of 370 km of main
roads and 80 km of feeder roads as well as for equipment for vehicle control
in the north of the country. The project, which was completed on time and
within estimates, was executed satisfactorily, but base failures occurred
on the 22 km Gumel-Maigatari road. Repairs were carried out by the Kano
State Ministry of Works and Survey.
426-UNI (1965) - Apapa Road
A US$17.5 million loan for the construction of about 7 km of
4-lane expressway, partly elevated, leading to the port of Lagos; for
highway feasibility studies of federal roads and the detailed design of
some sections; and for a study of the classification of major roads and
of the distribution of road use revenues. The Apapa road was opened to
traffic on January 6, 1973. The cost of the re-designed project (an
elevated structure on Diled foundations as against the original ground
level pavement on sandfill) has increased from N 17.4 million as estimated
at appraisal, to N 23.6 million. The Government provided the extra funds
for construction, which was expected to be completed in harch/April 1973.
427-UNI (1965) - W'estern Roads
A Us$14.5 million loan for the construction of three roads
totaling 157 km; for detailed engineering of a further 495 km of roads;
for technical assistance to advise the Western State MWT on maintenance
operations; and for the procurement of road maintenance equipment. Final
costs were within the appraisal estimates. Extra maintenance equipment
and a road inventory are being financed from the balance of construction
funds. The technical assistance operation, including five maintenance
advisers, is complete, and recommendations are being implemented.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
640-UNI (1970) - Highway Rehabilitation
A Us$10.6 million loan for the rehabilitation of 275 Im of the
Lagos-Ilorin and Lagos-Ewekoro trunk roads; for detailed engineering of
the Lagos-Ibadan expressWay; and for a feasibility study of an improved
road connection between Ibadan and Daura on the Niger border. Pavement
desgin for the rehabilitation contracts had to be changed because sections
of road failed due to rainfall penetration. The Government has provided
extra funds for the amended pavement construction. The final engineering
for the Lagos-Ibadan expressway was expected to be ready in early 1973.  The
Ibadan-Daura feasibility study has reached the end of the second of three
phases. The project will be completed in 1973.
694-UNI (1970) - Transport Rehabilitation
A US$25 million loan to assist in urgent rehabilitation works,
namely:
Ports:         Repair of sheds and warehouses in Port Harcourt,
and acquisition of port handling equipment for
all ports.
Railways:      Acquisition of rolling stock, motive power and
track equipment and materials.
Roads:         Rehabilitation of 477 km of trunk roads, including
bridges, and provision for consultant services.
So far the equivalent of about US$12.5 million has been committed for roads,
US$11.0 million for railway equipment, and US$1.5 million for port equipment.
The project will be completed in 1973.
838-uNI (1972) - Fifth Highway Loan
A US$26.3 million loan for the construction of 176 km of five
Western State roads; for the reconstruction of eight war-damaged bridges on
Federal roads; for feasibility studies and preliminary engineering of 3,300 km
and final engineering of 660 km of Federal and State roads; technical assistance
to improve Federal highway and maintenance, and purchase of equipment for
traffic data collection. Contracts for construction have been awarded. The
Government has selected consultants to undertake feasibility studies of
approximately 2,300 km of road. The consultants are completing the final
report on improved highway management and maintenance.
Bank Technical Assistance Grants
In 1963, a technical assistance grant of US$125,000 was made for
feasibility studies of 12 Trunk B roads feeding into the Bornu railway ex-
tension, and for 25 other road projects in the Northern Region. The con-
struction of three of these roads, Maiduguri-Baga, Biu-Gombe and Cumel-



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Maigatari formed the basis for Credit 73-UNI. Certain other of these roads
have been studied under Phase II of the Northern States Roacl Development
Survey (see below).
In 1965, a US$240,000 technical assistance grant was made for a
comprehensive study of regional and local authority roads in the Eastern
region to assess the existing transport system, to identify future needs,
and to make recommendations for road construction, road maintenance and
highway administration. These priorities need revision in the light of
present conditions.
UNDP -financed Studies for Western and Northern Roads
In addition to the Bank-financed projects listed above, the Bank
also acted as Executing Agency for UNDP-financed regional road studies in
the West and North, similar in scope to the Eastern Roads Study. The
Western Nigeria Road Development Survey identified about 495 km of priority
road projects, and the final engineering for most of them was carried out
under Loan 427-UNI. Field work for the Northern States Road Development
Survey started in October 1968, and the report on Phase I was submitted in
October 1969. Phase II, which comprised detailed engineering of roads
identified in Phase I, was completed in 1972.
UNDP -financed Transport Study for the Mid-Western State
The Bank will act as Executing Agency for the UNDP-financed trans-
port study in the Mid-Western State. Consultants are being selected by the
Bank in consultation with the Government.






ANNEX 2
Page 1
NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (APAPA EXTENSION)
Installation, at Lagos Port
A. Sea and Land Access
1.        The general layout of the port is shown in Map 10343.  The entrance
to the harbor is U1.0 m deep at mean low water spring tides, with a total
range of 1.2 m. Waiting anchorages outside the harbor entrance are ample.
The channel between the entrance and the berths is wide enough for two-way
passage of large cargo ships, and the harbor sea areas are adequate for them
to maneuver.
2.        Seventy to 80 percent of all cargo to and from the port
is carried by road; most of the balance is transported by the railways
which now get a steadily declining share of this traffic, although their
physical capacity is adequate to carry much larger volumes. Roads outside
the port area have been severely congested in the past, but this situation
is being relieved by the following works completed or proposed:
(a)               a 5 km 4-lane road (mainly elevated) northwards
from the port gates is now virtually complete; further, the
construction contract has been let for the further extension
of this road 5 km northwards (to 4-lane standard and with two
service lanes), and another 10 km section is scheduled for
completion in 1975;
(b)                 a 4-lane road, now wider design, approximately
parallel to the roads abovementioned, joining Lagos Island
with the Ibadan motorway at a point 20 km north of Lagos; and
(c)                 a park near and outside the port gates with
capacity for 600 trucks.
B. Port Installation
3.        Table 3 gives details of the berths and storage facilities at the
Port of Lagos. Apapa has 13 general cargo berths and one bulk grain berth,
each 8.2 m deep at lowest tide. Two other berths are as deep, but too short
to hold large ships; also,since the quay is occupied by railway crossover
tracks, these two berths cannot be provided with transit sheds. The
Customs Quays are located on the opposite side of the Apapa Channel on
Lagos Island, and consist of three deep-water berths whose low-tide depth
ranges around 6.0 m. Neither Apapa nor Customs Quays has any rail connections,
and the roads serving them connect directly with the congested roads of
central Lagos.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        The transit sheds, warehouses, and open storage areas at Apapa
have capacities corresponding to those of the berths. The Nigerian
Produce Marketing Company occupies most of the warehouses. Truck parking
areas inside the port are inadequate, primarily because of the increasing
road traffic congestion on roads outside the port area,and an insufficient
number of gates and the slow Customs examination at them. When loading
or unloading is in progress on the shore side of the transit sheds, very
large trucks often extend across part of the road and cause congestion.
The Customs Quays transit sheds are adequate, but facilities are scarce
for warehousing, open storage, and truck-parking.
5.        Of the six mooring-buoy berths on the Lagos Island side of the
Apapa Channel, only three are usable, and then only on a limited basis
since their effectiveness as general cargo-handling installations wculd
generally involve lighterage. Several other moorings in the harbor area
are now used by the Nigerian Navy or occasionally by general traffic. NPA
has several small lighter berths. Upstream of the Apapa wharves are a
fishery wharf, facilities (mainly privately-owned) for handling petroleum
in bulk, and a coal iWharf (owned by the National Electric Power Authority)
for a power station. Berth 1 at Apapa has silos and a conveyor system
(owned by Nigerian Flour Mills) used for storing and discharging bulk wheat.
6.        Except for the equipment for wheat-handling in bulk and for
loading vegetable oil, NPA provides all other equipment for ship-handling
in the port and for its general operaticns (including fire-fighting). The
cargo-handling equipment available will suffice for the normal working
capacity of the berths, provided it is maintained in good condition. All
other equipment is adequate.
7.        The port telecommunications system includes modern VHF radio
communication and is adequate.
C. Utilities
8.        Electricity is supplied direct from the National Electric Power
Authority; two stand-by generators (total capacity 300 KVA) are available
in case of a major power failure. Fresh water is supplied by the Lagos
State Government. The estimated daily requirement of the port is 2,200 m3,
but a seasonal water shortage in Lagos generally makes this volume un-
attainable. The Lagos State Government is just completing an em3rgency
program increasing the total supply from 100,000 m3 to 200,000 m  per day,
and has further plans for increasing it to 270,000 m3 per day by 1975.  NPA
is at present drilling for water sources, and fairly large ones have been
found which are now being tested for suitability.
D. Shipyard Installations
9.        These consist of a 4,000-ton capacity floating dock, a 700-ton
slipway (now under reconstruction), and a 100-ton 5ynchrolift Marine Elevator.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Also included are workshops, offices and ancillary equipment for operating
the yard as a facility for ship repair, small-craft construction, and
general engineering. The civil installations (including buildings) are
generally in good condition. The maintenance of shipyard equipment is
satisfactory, but is deficient for all other items.






ANNEX 3
Page 1
NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECCND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (APAPA WHARF EXTENSICN)
Instillations at Complexes of Delta Ports, Po-rt Harcourt,-and Calabar
I.  DELTA PORT CCMPLEX
The Delta ports which consist of Sapele, Warri, Burutu and Koko,
are situated in the mid-Western State. The main entrance to these ports is
the Escravos river mouth which gives access to a complex network of deep
water rivers or "creeks" leading to the various ports. Depth on the Escravos
Bar entrance governs the size of vessels that can have access to the Delta
ports; this depth is presently about 4.3 m at LWOST; there have been unsuc-
cessful efforts in the past to increase the depth to 6.5 n by dredging and by
the construction of leading moles both sides of the entrance.
Warri has one deep-water berth, 160 an long, 5.7 m deep, and three
mooring buoys berths. There is also a lighter wharf, and lighterage is im-
portant. The port is visited by about 200 ships a year, and attracts the
various companies associated in one form or the other with the oil industry.
Sapele has two deep-water berths and nine mooring buoys berths.
The port was developed by the timber industry (logs and plywood), which has
been on the decline in recent years. It is visited by about 250 ships a year.
Koko, 20 miles from Sapele, has one good deep-water berth and is
used for general cargo traffic. There are plans to develop Koko as the fish-
ing port for the Delta.
Burutu was a port of some importance before the Civil War, with
two deep-water berths. It was used for exporting local produce from the
Northeast and from Cameroon, which were transported on the Benue River. That
traffic has now ceased,and the port is used mainly by oil companies as a
base for their survey teams and for repairs to their equipment since there
is a good workshop formerly used to maintain the river fleet.
Oil terminals exist in the mouths of the Escravos and Forcador
Rivers (20 miles south of Escravos). None of the Delta ports has rail
accesses; Burutu has no road access and depends upon river navigation.
II.  PORT HARCOURT CMPWLEX
Access to Port Harcourt is through the Bonny River, which is
presently dredged to 7.3 m LWOST; it is expected to be dredged to 8.3 m
LWOST in the near future.
Total main wharf length is 1,070 m allowing for accommodation of
up to seven vessels; there is accormodation for another vessel at the coal
berth; there are also two mooring buoys berths and a tanker berth. Each
of the main wharf berths is provided with a transit shed and served by
electric level luffing portal cranes and mobile cranes up to 25 t lifting



ANNEX 3
Page-2-
capacity. Ancillary facilities include water supply, palm oil storage tanks,
and petroleum tanks. All berths aFe provi4de with road and rail access.
Oil terminals exist at Bonny in the Bonny River entrance, which has
been dredged to 11.0 m for accesa of 30,000 t tankers.
III. CALABAR COMPLEX
Calabar is the main port of the Southeastern State. Its access
is governed by depth in the Calabar Rivyr which is  3.7 m at LWOST. There
aa two berths for ocean-going vessels and one berth for a coastwise vessel.
Equipment is limited to small mobile cranes and forklift trucks. The port
has no rail access.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (APAPA EXTENSION)
The Government White Paper on Statutory Corporations
Basedcn the recommendations of the Working Party which was
established in 1966, the Government has publicized its policy on Statutory
Corporations and State-owned companies (hereafter called the Corporation) in
a White Paper released in 1968.
i. Political interference and Ministerial and Government control
S .       To free the Corporations from undue political partisan interfer-
ence, the Government distributed powers between Ministers and the Cabinet.
Ministers would be responsible for approval of by-laws, budgets and rates,and
scales of charges for services. Ministerial control over the following should
be subject to the prior approval of the Cabinet:
-    appointment and removal of the Chairman and members of the Board;
-    issuance  of directives on the disposal of surplus funds;
-    sanctioning any extension of Corporations' activities;
-    approval of loans or advances to Corporations;
-    approval of capital development projects and arrangements
for financing them;
-    approval of the acquisition and disposal of land and
buildings;
-    appointment of external auditors;  and
-    appointment of publicity agents  where necessary.
2.        The Government has decided that the Minister responsible for a
Corporation should consult with the Board Chairman on policies he intends
to initiate and that, where there is a disagreement, the Minister should
apprise the Cabinet of such disagreement and seek approval of the course
he intends to take.
ii. Control by the Legislature
3.        The Government has decided that the Legislature should scrutinize
audited accounts of Corporations, but because its Public Accounts Committee
is already fully occupied with the accounts of Government Ministries, the
Government has decided that only a Parliamentary Standing Committee on Cor-
porations' Accounts should be established for the purpose. The Legislature



ANNEX .
Page 2
should also be entitled to appoint committees to examine plans and projects
of the Corporations and report their findings.
iii. Information to the Public
4.        Consumers' councils in the Corporations should be established to
keep the public well informed of activities. Where by-laws of the Corpora-
tion would affect the interests of consumers, they should be approved by
the Legislature in the form of a statutory instrument.
iv. Organization and Internal Improvement
5.        The Board of a Corporation should be responsible for setting out
the Corporation's plans and programs based on the policy directives of the
Minister. Save in those areas which are in the Board's jurisdiction, the
Chief Executive should be left free to run the Corporation, and the Board
should not interfere with day-to-day management.
6.        The Board members should be well selected and, as far as possible,
on a nation-wide basis, with appointment not being based on political consi-
derations. Regard should also be had to ability, experience,and specialized
knowledge of candidates. Appointment should be for a term of three years,
but members should be eligible for reappointment. The appointing authority
should maintain same measure of continuity by reappointing members with out-
standing ability. The Chairman and Board members should serve part-time
only, and their remuneration and other conditions of service should reflect
this. Board of a Corporation should not exceed nine members, in order to
ensure that the Board would not become unwieldy.   Boards of Corporations
should include representatives of Corporations ibich carry out related
services (e.g., ports and railwaya), so as to ensure adequate coordination.
v. Reorientation of the financial           nomicarranements
7.        Earnings, expenditures and capital obligations of Corporations
should be considered as a whole by the Government as their common owner.
This concept of a common ownership will result in the prices for services
in the various organizations being fixed with beneficial effect to the coun-
try's economy. It should also result in the creation of a central machinery
in the Ministry of Economic Development for reviewing and analyzing the
activities of all Corporations, assessing their yearly performances in
financial and economic terms,and advising on the disposal of surpluses or
profits4
TIhe financial position of corporations which are required to
maintain uneconomic services or undertake functions of a social service
character, should be examined from time to time with a view to determining
the extent each requires to be subsidized in respect of these services.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
9.         Expenditures of Corporations should not unnecessarily inflate.  The
Government and the Corporation should agree on a broad expenditure limit for any
one year, the Corporation determining and meeting its needs within that limit.
The limit should be exceeded only in exceptional circumstances which the Chief
Executive must explain satisfactorily to the Government through the Board.
vi. Audit
10.        The Government has decided:
(a) that the Head of the Internal Audit should be in a strong position to enable
disagreement between him and the Chief Executive to be referred to the Board or
the Minister for decision;
(b) that Internal Auditors should not merely trail behind transactions but should
be integrated with the Corporation's accounting organization. They should be
associated with all transactions so as to bring discrepancies and irregulari-
ties to notice before the transactions are finished, and also to discover possible
frauds and dishonest practices before they are committed; and
(c) that Internal Auditors should also supervise implementation of the recom-
mendations made by external auditors and should be able to recommend improvements
in existing practices.
11.        Only reputable firms of professional accountants with at least three
full-time partners should qualify to undertake auditing. Auditors should furnish
two types of reports, as follows:
- a report for publication which should show the broad financial position of the
Corporation and any very substantial points to which it is considered necessa-
ry to draw the attention of the public;
- a "domestic report" which should incorporate the auditors' detailed observa-
tions and recommendations on all the aspects of their assignment. This report
should be placed before the Legislature's Standing Committee on Corporations'
Accounts.
12.        In order to prevent waste arising from overstaffing and other causes,
the terms of reference of Corporations' auditors should be enlarged to include
"management audit"; the Chief Executive and his principal officers concerned
should be held strictly accountable for serious lapses disclosed by the auditors.
In particular:
(a) adequate and proper attention should be given to improving technical opera-
tions and proper utilization of equipment, so as to increase productivity;
(b) adequate and proper attention should be given to improving managerial control
and internal reorganization which would take account of:
(i) introducing proper accounting procedures, such as cost accounting,
budgetary control, stores accounting and internal audit;



ANNFX 4
Page
(ii) reducing waste in administrative over-heads, such as over-
staffing; low- productivity; inadequate wage system; lack of
control of expenditure on stores, bulk purchasing and supply
arrangements; lack of adequate collaboration between Depart-
ments; improper storage facilities; and circumvention of the
tenders procedure;
(c) greater attention should be given to the adequacy, regularity, analysis
and proper use of accounting reports in relation to budgetary control and
cost control; and
(d) the Management should attach greater importance to the development planning
of the activities of the Corporation, to research into existing and projected
methods of operation, and to the introduction of innovations where necessary
and economical.
vii. Purchase and Contract Procedures
13.       In order to minimize the risk of fraud, financial and purchase
transactions must not be concentrated in the hands of a single individual
or authority.  The process of the transaction shouldbe spread to enable
at least three agents to have specific responsibilities, each of which is
complementary to the other.
14.       Contract procedure required to be overhauled radically.  A high-
powered Standin Tenders Board, with statutory powers and consisting of
eminent Nigerians., was established to supervise the award of contracts in
all Corporations, subject to all contracts for projects valued at N50,000
and above being referred, through the appropriate Minister, to the Cabinet
for approval.
15.       The Board consists of a full-time Chairman to be appointed by the
Head of the Government,and 15 part-time members, three of whom should be
drawn from the Ministries of Finance, Transport and Works.  The remaining
twelve members consist of a panel of civil servants drawn from all the Public
Services in the Federation.  They are appointed for a period of three years,
subject to reappointment, and can only be removed for inability to discharge
the functiorns of their office or for misbehavior.
16.       An independent Statutory Corporations Service Commission has been
established to supervise ali categories of appointments, promotions and dis-
cipline for the Corporations, in the same way as the Public Services Commis-
sions do for the Civil Service in the Federation.  The Commission may dele-
gate some of its Dowers and functions to a Chief Executive or his lieutenants
in respect of posts,and at employees levels to senior clerks and technicians.



AX 5
NIGERIA
APPRAIBAL OF SECOND IAGL   PORT PROJECT (APAPA ENSION)
Gag_ Productivity at Apwpa Quays
Tonnages Per Gross Gang-Hour
Imports                Exorts
With          With              With
year            2 Shifts       3 Shifts i/       2 Shifts
1965               5.6                              8.5
1966               5.8                             10.8
1967               5.1                              8.9
1968             iergemey                        Emergency
1969            Emergeacy                        Emergency
1970                              4.6               7.1
1971                              4.6               7.0
1972                              5.7               8.2
#/ Exports are not handled by the night shift.






ANNEX 6
Page
NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (APAPA EXTENSION)
Nigeria Port Authority Training Program 1973-77
General
1.        NPA's training policy is in keeping with Section II(p) of the 1954
Ports Act which provides that the Authority shall "do anything for the
purpose of advancing the skill of the persons employed by the Authority,
or of the efficiency of the equipment of the Authority, or of the manner in
which that equipment is operated, including the provision by the Authority
and the assistance of the provision by others, of facilities for training,
education and research." The Training Division is part of the General
Manager's Department.
2.        In operating its training program, the Authority has two principal
aims:
(i) to produce the desired personnel when these are in scarce supply
on the labor market (Educational Program); and
(ii) to improve the skills and productivity of existing personnel
(Administrative and Professional Training Program).
Educational Program
3.        The Educational Program includes:
(i) annual award of seven standing scholarships in marine engineering
fields at three local universities; and
(ii) the Management Cadet Training Scheme under which 12 cadets are
recruited annually for a training period of two to five years.
Administrative Training Program
4.        About 83% of the relevant officers of NPA will be trained as
follows:
(i) Top Management (Chief Executive, his deputy, Departmental Heads).
34 officers out of 39 will be required to attend the Administrative
Staff College courses, workshops, conferences, and seminars. These
are of one day to two weeks duration, and are conducted either
locally or overseas.
(ii) Middle Management (Deputy Heads of Department and Principal Officers).
18 officers out of 19 will either: (i) take a diploma in public or
business administration if they do not already have one; or (ii)
attend conferences and seminars of the Nigerian Tnstitute of Management
and of the Industrial Society of London.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(iii)  Junior Management (All staff at the level of Asaistant Officer,
Officer, and at senior grades).  62 officers out of 79 will either:
(i) obtain a university diploma in public or business administration,
or (ii) enroll in a six-month course in management studies at the
College of Technology.
Professional Training Program
5.        Altogether, 77% of the officers on the establishment will be
trained under this program. The percentage of other staff to be trained is
not presently known, but it will vary from one category to another, according
to need. The percentage of staff in the present establishment to be trained
is highest for seamen, plant drivers, quay supervisors, chief clerks, and
typists.  Details of the training are as follows:
(i) General and Officers. The training needs of the Departments for
Engineering, Harbors, Finance, Traffic, Legal, Public Relations,
Development, Stores, and Estates constitute the bulk of the
professional training programs. Appropriate professional expertise
is required of the officers of these departments to enable them
to function efficiently. Emphasis is therefore placed on the
possession of the professional qualification applicable to a
particular Department. Staff at the middle management level who
are not so qualified but are considered too advanced in age to
benefit from any formal training, will be obliged to attend con-
ferences and seminars in their respective professions. They will
also be required to take up membership in their respective pro-
fessional bodies. This will, if nothing else, compel them to
attend Association meetings, listen to lectures, and participate
in debates and discussions groups. At the Junior Management
level, every officer must of necessity be professionally qualified
before appointment to the post. It is true that there are some
officers who have attained this position without having the appro-
priate qualifications; such officers should be sponsored to
appropriate Institutions to be so qualified before they can be
considered for further advancement.
(ii) Technical Staff. The necessary training and education for NPA
technicians to be employed in the Harbors and Engineering
Departments are provided at the Authority's Technical and Craft
Training Centre. The provision of this service over the years has
been satisfactory. For advanced technical cources, advantage is
taken of the facilities available at the various technical colleges
and trade centers in the country. The number of technical staff
to be trained depends on how many are able to obtain admission after
a competitive examination which is not presently defined.
(iii) Clerical Staff. As an induction course, clerical training is
being provided for all newly-engaged clerical staff in all Departments
at the Management and Traffic Development Centre.  Chief Clerks,
Assistant Chief Clerks, and all who perform supervisory functions
will undergo appropriate training at the Centre. Those whose



ANNEX 6
Page 3
performance is above average will be sponsored to undertake diploma
courses in management in anticipation of their entry into the
officer cadre. This is to ensure that when staff members eventually
get promoted to positions as officers, they will be of a suitable
caliber to allow the competent discharge of their functions. At
least one staff member from each Department will be required to
attend such courses annually.
(iv) Secretarial Staff. The senior level of this category of personnel
(personal and confidential secretaries) have already attained the
required professional and speed qualifications. The problem is at
the lower level categories where there is a lack of basic education
and professional qualifications; the majority of the copy- and
shorthand-typists are so poorly qualified, and their productivity
so low, that intensive training has become imperative. However,
they lack the basic qualifications for entry into local and
overseaa institutions to become qualified. Staff members who were
able to take advantage of facilities offered in the home country,
have been junior clerks who hold the West African School Certificate.
In effect, most of NPA's secretarial staff remains institutionally
untrainable. To help alleviate this, an intensive in-service
training program will be implemented, mainly in the fonm of evening
courses in English language, typing, shorthand, and office practice.






ANNEX 7
Page 1
NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (APAPA EXTENSION)
Plan of Action
Introduction
The Government has been concerned about NPA's performance over
recent years. It is of the opinion that NPA should: (a) fulfill the ec.onomic
role of providing the best service to traffic at the lowest economic cost
to the country, (b) maintain its financial viability and possibly pay a
dividend to the Government, and (c) be subject to adequate control from the
Government, but without being hampered in its day-to-day operations. Agree-
ment has been reached on the following objectives:
1. Operations
(a) NPA will take the necessary steps to improve its efficiency and
increase and maintain gang productivity on break-bulk cargo at Apapa
wharves by 15% by June 30, 1975. For this purpose, it is assumed that
(i) Customs Quay capacity will be 0.3 million tons; (ii) the container bertth
will operate at its capacity of 0.5 million tons; and (iii) the bulk bertih
will handle 0.8 million tons.
(b) Availability of cargo-handling equipment at Apapa will reach 60%
by June 30, 1975, and will be maintained at that level thereafter.
(c) The integrated cargo-handling scheme will be implemented only in
consultation with the Bank.
(d) NPA will, if necessary to meet its targets and to carry out the
policies set forth in the present Plan of Action, or to improve its opera-
tions in such areas as engineering, planning or finance, recruit experts
in consultation with the Bank.
(e) NPA will carry out a realistic review of its staffing and
establishment policies, and will exchange views with the Bank on the matter.
(f) NPA will implement its training program in consultation with the
Bank, with the view of attracting and maintaining the requisite number of
skilled staff, and improving the quality and productivity of existing
persomnel.
2. Finance
(a) NPA will advise the Bank of the outcome of the costing and financial
studies, and will furnish cost and tariffs data to the Bank by June 30, 197h.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(b) NPA will introduce costing tariffs and accounting improvements in
agreement with the Bank.
(c) NPA will set rates and fares in such a way that no rate or fare
shall be below the cost of providing the relevant service.
(d) NPA will not increase its tariffs unless in consultation with
the Bank.
(e) NPA will, not later than March 31, 1975, prepare balance sheets
on +he basis of a breakdown of fixed assets of each port.
(f) NPA will revalue its assets by March 31, 1976.
(g) NPA will limit its debt service commitments to the present pro-
j,ect, unless its net cash revenue is at least 1-4 times its maximum future
debt service commitments.
(h) NPA will earn through 1976/77 an after-tax rate of return of at
least 6% on the average fixed assets in use to be reviewed with the Bank
before December 31, 1976.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (APAPA EXTENSION)
Present and Future Capacity_of Lagos Port
A.  General
1.        The annual capacity of a port can be described in terms of:
(a) the number of working days in the year;
(b) the berth occupancy factor;
(c) the average number of gangs per ship;
(d) the average gross number of working hours per day;
(e) the average production per gross gang-hour; and
(f) the number of berths.
The annual capacity is the production which can be attained by
all reasonable means.
B. Caacity of Existing Port
1.        The following analysis excludes mineral oil and fresh fish, which
are handled at special berths. Vegetable oil, which can be pumped simul-
taneously with dry cargo handling is also excluded. 1971/1972 throughput
was:
(in'0OO tons)
General cargo imports                   2,272
General cargo exports                      793
Sub-total             3,o65
Bulk wheat                                 370
Wheat offal                                 71
Customs Quay
General cargo imports and exports          274
Total                 3,780
2.        A number of adjustments to present traffic figures have to be
made to obtain port capacity.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(a)  Number of working days in the year
Considering national and religious holidays *tc., thisv is 340
days a year.
(b) Berth occupancy
Ships waiting time in 1971/72 was 2,438 days, which indicates
a berth occupancy rate for a 14-berth installation of about 93% or factor
0.93. The optimum berth occupancy factor for 14 berths is assessed as
0.79. This is based on formulae relating the costs of ship waiting time
to berth construction, which, although based on experience in developed
countries, is considered appropriate for Lagos, as berth construction costs
are sim.Uar to those in developed countries, and the ships using the port
operate internationally. A correction of 79 = 85 will be applied to present
Apapa tonnages.                            95
(c) Production of per gross gang-hour
It is assumed that productivity can be increased by 15%.  The
correction is 1.15.
(d) Number of working hours per day
This is presently 24 hours in 3 shiftso Although the night shift
is only 50% as efficient as the day shifts, 3-shift operation is expected
to continue. There will not therefore be any gffect on capacity from this
factor.
3.        The adjusted throughput for Apapa is:
3.065 x .85 x 1.15 = 2.990 million tony.
Apapa has presently 14 berths; capacity for general cargo is only
13 berths because one half berth is utilizod iu handling bulk wheat and
wheat offal.
Total service time available at these berths is:
0.79 x 340 x 13.5 = 3,626 berth-days.
4.        It is assessed that 1.3 million tons would be bagged and 1.7 million
tons non-bagged cargo.
5.        Bagged cargo is more easily handled than non-bagged. Assuming
the non-bagged handling rate is 70% of the bagged rate, the capacity of a
bagged berth is calculated as 277,000 tons p.a, and an unbagged berth as
192,000 tons p.a.
6.        This gives an existing port capacity ofs
General dry cargo (Apapa)           2.99 million tons
General dry cargo (Customs)         0.30 million tons
Bulk Cargo                          0.44 million tons
Total             77 million tons



ANNEJ 8
Page 3
C. Future Port Capacity
7.       On project completion, Apapa quays will comprise: 1 container
berth; 1 container/break-bulk berth; 16 break-bulk berths; 1 dry bulk/
break bulk berth.
8.       It is assumed that (a) Customs Quay capacity will be 0.3 million
tons; (b) the container berth will operate at its capacity of 0.5 million
tons; (c) the bulk berth will handle 0.8 million tons.
9.       The capacity of the general cargo berths will be determined by
the distribution of cargo between bagged and non-bagged. In 1971, about
43 percent was bagged; in 1979 the proportion is expected to be 40 percent,
due to cement import decline and the growth of non-bagged general cargo
imports.
10.      Bulk handling is not expected to substitute for bagged cargo.
This is because cement imports vary in origin thus inhibiting bulk trans-
portation, and imports are expected to decline. For exports, the volumes
forecast are small by the standard of most bulk-transported materials;
year to year fluctuations are substantial.
11.      The current and forecast 1979 capacities at Lagos Port are as
follows:
(in million tons)
Customs                   Apapa
Quays        Bulk   Container   Bagged   Non-bagged   Total
1971        0.3          0.44       -        1.29       1.70        3.73
1979        0.3         0.80      0.50       1.50       2.30        5.40






ANNEX 9
Page 1
NIGEiIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (APAPA EXTENSION)
Containerization
A. General
1.       Experience suggests that for long deep-sea voyages,
containerization is the most appropriate mode of dry cargo unitization.
This consists of transporting cargo contained within large metal
boxes, the most common size of which is 36 m x 2.4 m x 2.4 m.
2.       The large unit size, their cost,and that of the necessary handling
facilities and specialized ships, has led to the following characteristics
of container operations:
(a) the higher the value per ton of goods, the greater -the probability
of shipment in containers;
(b) the volume of containerable traffic between two port areas required
for the successful introcbiction of a direct container service
is significantly greater than that for a scheduled general
cargo liner service; the result of this is a tendency for
direct services to be concentrated on a smaller number of ports,
providing the base load, with this being supplemented by feeder
services from and to the lesser ports; and berth throughputs
can on average be 500,000 tons p.a. per container berth. This
contrasts with the 150,000-200,000 t annual throughput of a
general cargo berth.
B. Present and future container traffic at Lagos
3.       If total traffic in Lagos grows as predicted (Table 4),there is
a very strong possibility that it will become a primary port for
container services. 1yhere are in existence two container services to
West African ports, -  one of which calls at Lagos. Neither handle significant
volumes of container traffic at present. Elder Dempster, a British shipping
line already associated with one of the existing container service, handles
60-70 % of all Nigerian traffic with the United Kingdom,and is proposing to
provide a direct UK-Lagos containerized service, on a weekly basis, carrying
200 containers.
1/ Africa Container Lines -- UK to Liberia, Ivory Coast, and Nigeria --
every 2 weeks. Socite Navale Chargeurs Delmas Vieljeux -- France
(Atlantic and Mediterranean) to Ivory Coast, Cameroon, and Gabon --
every 1 or 2 weeks.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
4.       The plans of Soci6t6 Navale Chargeurs Delmas Vieljeux (SNCDV),
a French company, are more ambitious.  Their share of the Nigeria-Continental
Europe traffic is about 65 %, but the proposed future service will be
by 16,000 dwt ships (implying about 1,000 containers per vessel) every 10 days.
SNMDV wil3 call at Abidjan, Cotonou and Douala,as well as Lagos. While
Lagos would be a primary port Southbound, the other ports would provide most
of the Northbound traffic, the basis being local produce of moderately high
value such as cotton and cocoa.
5.       This implies that the major shipping companies are planning to
provide container services to Lagos with a total annual capacity approaching
50,000 containers, or at 10 tons per container, of 1 million tons.
However, the imbalance in Nigerian containerable traffic suggests that a
much lower total for Nigerian traffic is envisaged, probably not more than
750,000 tons. The composition of Lagos imports and exports in 1971/72
suggests that about 40 % of imports were containerable,or 1.1 million tons.
However, less than two thirds originate within the United Kingdom/European
Economic Community (UX/EEC) hinterland of the two container services,
suggesting that only about 750,000 tons meet the containerability and
route criteria for containeritation. It is not appropriate to add the
containerable traffic, on the same basis, at other ports to this total,
as a service to Lagos only is envisaged,and feeder services from other
Nigerian ports seem unlikely.
6.       In assessing future volumes of containerited traffic,four factors
require consideration:
(a) Growth of containerable import traffic through Lagos
It is forecast that by the end of calendar year 1978 when
the project is scheduled for completion, the total demand for
capacity at Lagos will be over 4.8 million tons, of which
about 3.6 million tons will be imports. It is doubtful that
either the proportion containerable, or that originating in
the UK/EEC, will have altered significantly by then.  The
volume of containerable imports can therefore be forecast at
1.0 million tons.
(b) Potential for export containerization
Total dry cargo exports through Lagos are forecast to recover by
end 1978 to 1.3 million tons, mainly agricultural. Therefore, the
proportion of exports containerable is likely to remain below
that for imports, giving a potential of perhaps 400,000 tons.
The total import and export containerable traffic would then be
about 1.4 million tons.
(c) Rate of containerigation
Even after container services have been established for a number
of years, the full Dotential is often not realized. The North



ANNEX 9.
Page 3
Atlantic provides an example. In 1971, United Kingdom - North
American containerable traffic was about 7.5 million tons.
Actual container traffic totalled 2.6 million tons. If it is
assumed that Nigerian container services have developed to the
same extent by 1978, and this is by no means certain, the actual
container traffic through Lagos would barely reach 0.5 million
tons. It is possible that this would be supplemented by traffic
diverted from other ports (principally Port Harcourt) due to
congestion at these ports inducing shippers to transport high
value imports by land from Lagos rather than suffer delays. In
this case,the proportion of containerable traffic at Lagos would
increase, although the proportion of containerable imports
through Port Harcourt is currently lower than at Lagos. The
prospects of container services on a significant scale calling
at Port Harcourt seems small.
(d) Influence of berth congestion on containerization
'The desire "or a rapid turn-round of vessels has been an important
factor in developing container services.  However, in North
Atlantic ports, significant ship delay due to traffic exceeding
berth capacity has not yet occurred. Consequently, there is no
experience upon which to base a prediction of the effec-; of
future congestion, in terms of demand for berthage, upon the
rate of containerization. Theoretically, given that unloading
container vessels is more rapid than that of general cargo vessels,
the demands upon berth space generated by the proposed container
services is much less than proportional to the cargo carried.
Thus, the berth demand by container vessels may be only some
5 % of the total berth availability for Lagos. The effect increased
container operations would have upon the total demand for berthage,
and therefore the incentive to containerize generated by this
demand, is consequently likely to be small. The incentive
generated by pressure on transit and storage space on the quay
could be more important. However, the landward operations,
including not only the quay design but the facilities outside
the port area, have been designed to provide considerable
flexibility. Consequently, additional pressures to containerize
from this source are not likely to be a major factor either.
7.      To summarize, containerized traffic through Lagos is predicted to
reach 500,000 tons p.a. by the end of 1978. This figure is below the
potential, and as experience is gained beyond 1978, the actual volume will
more closely approach a continually growing potential. Pressures on Lagos
capacity which will be experienced by 1979 will not, however, have a
significanteffect on the rate of containerization. There is some possibility
that the imbalance in containerable traffic between the UK/EEC and Nigeria will
lead to feeder services into Lagos. However, the plans of SNCDV do not
incorporate this, and consequently feeder services are likely to be mainly
determined by Elder Dempster's reaction to the competitive situation.






ANNEX 10
Page 1
NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (APAPA EXTENSION)
Description of the Project
Harbor
1.        The new channel would be winding because of the configuration of the
natural channel, but would be wide enough to permit two-way passage of up to
15,000 dwt ships to and from the existing Apapa berths. The channel wcil.d
be 200 m wide on straight lengths,and up to 250 m wide on bends and at the
entrance. Existing and new lighted beacons and buoys would permit night and
day shipping movements. The entrance would be dredged to 13.0 m below LWOST
to allow for squat and wave action,and the channel and turning basin to 11.0 m
below LWOST.
Quays and Fixed Shore Facilities
2.        The new quays would total 1,000 m in length, providing one container
berth 250 m long and four general cargo berths (Map 10343). The whole length
of 1,000 m would be dredged to 13.5 m below LWOST for a width of 42 m from
the quay. The new quay line could be 220 m seaward of the existing shore-line,
and a total area of 45.5 ha would be reclaimed.
2
Each of the four new general cargo berths would have 17,000 m olf
transit shed and 30,000 m2 of open stacking area.  A 7,000 m2 wapehouse is
also to be constructed.  The container berth would have 45,000 m  of contaier
stacking area and a trailer park. The container crane for the transfer of crc-
tainers to and from rail flats, shown on Map 10344, would not be provided uMdter
the project but would be needed later when rail transportation of containers
developed further.  The four general cargo berths would be designed for ea-V
conversion to three container berths.
3.        The new layout of transit sheds, open stacking areas, warehouses,
truck parking areas, roads, gates and railways is shown on Map 10343. Ala
quays would be served by road and rail; a four-lane main artery road would
connect with branch roads to all aprons, sheds, stacking areas and warehouses.
The number of road lanes at the gates would separate road traffic and prevent
road traffic congestion.  A 7,500 m2 warehouse served by road and rail would
be constructed.
4.        Electric lighting, electric power, telephones, a potable water supply
and fire-fighting mains (sea water) would be provided. Sewerage by septic tank
would be included in the project, with provision for later connection to a general
sewerage system. Oil and water bunkering facilities would be provided. The



ANNEX 10
Page 2
project would include provision of gate houses, a container area control
building, a control tower, a port health office,and mechanical workshops and
garages. Other needed ancillary facilities would be provided.
tE%ai pment
5.        The portainer crane would be of 35-ton capacity below the spreaders.
The heavy mobile crane would be capable of lifting, without riggers, 20-foot
loaded containers 32 m beyond the quay cope line (i.e., at the off-side
of a container ship moored alongside).  The heavy mobile crane wouid enable
NPA to handle containers at two ships simultaneously while avoiding an
alternative heavier investment in an additional portainer crane. The
transtainers would be of 35 ton capacity able to span at lea-t three
rows of containers and a lane for tractor/trailers; thev would be fitted
with all-wheel steering. The tractors and trailers would be able to transport
20 foot containers and loads of up to 20 tons.
The break-bulk equipment is scheduled in Table 5. The twelve 1-ton
electric fork-lift trucks would have short masts to permit their mse in ships
and for stuffing and unstuffing containers. Quayside travelling:crane tracks
at the four general cargo berths are included in the project for use should
quayside cranes become necessary in the future. Quayside cranes should
however not be needed now, and no provision has been made for such cranes in
the project. Provision in the project for break-bulk equipment is 25% below
the needs of the four general cargo berths because NPA's equipment at the port
and on order should make up the deficiency.
Technical Details
6.        The engineering consultants during the preliminary engineering phase
carried out meteorological, hydrological, sedimentological, hydraulic model,
soil and construction material investigations and analyses sufficient to establish
sound preliminary engineering designs and cost estimates. These are being con-
tinued to refine the design and cost estimates. A fixed-bed hydraulic model
of horizontal scale 1s200 and vertical scale 1:50 at Delft Hydraulics Laboratory
was used to investigate different quay locations, channel lines, channel widths,
turning basin locations and shapes, and effects on ships lying at the new quays.
A moving-bed hydraulic model of the same scale is now being operated at the
Laboratory to obtain more accurate information on bed movements. Difficulties
in simulating the bed materials are being experienced, and a mathematical
analysis of the harbor entrance is under way.
7.        The quay structure would be a rubble bank retaining the filling and a
reinforced concrete deck supported on concrete-filled steel tube piles. Chart 7388
shows a general cross-section of the quay; this might be amended to some extent
during detailed design. In the filled areas, soft material would be removed by
dredging,and the filling would be hydraulically-placed sand. Roads, stacking areas



ANNEX 10
Page 3
and parking areas would be asphaltic concrete finished. Aprons and transit
shed floors would be concrete or stelcon-type raft paved. Surfacings and the quay
deck would be designed to carry crane, container-transporting equipment, and
truck loadings as appropriate. The transit sheds would be clear span steel-
framed structures.
All quays would be designed to carry container cranes,and the transit
sheds would be designed for easy dismantling and re-erection, to permit easy
conversion of the four general cargo quays to container quays.






ANNEX 11
Page 1
NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (APARA EXTENSION)
Inflation Assumptions
1.        A separate inflation rate has to be calculated for the foreign and
local cost components of the project.
A. Foreign Costs
2.        The International Financial Statistics (IFS) quotes three relevant
price indices -- wholesale, retail and export prices -- on an internationally
consistent basis; the table attached as page 3 of this Annex shows data on
these indices for the periods 1963-70 and 1970-72. It is difficult to
determine whether the 1970-72 inflation rates, which have been greater than in
the previous years, can be expected to persist over the longer term; this has
however been assumed.
Appropriate Rater
3.        Information compiled by the UK National Ports Council indicates that
during the period 1963-69, civil engineering costs related to UK ports increased
slightly more than shown in the Retail Price Index, and substantially above
that of the Wholesale Price Index; the rate for plant and machinery is much
closer to the Wholesale Price Index. In this context, the export index does
not seem an appropriate indicator, as it probably reflects the short-run marginal
costs of production as being more than they actually occur in major civil
engineering contracts. Since the highest inflation rates in a developed country
have occurred in the UK, it seems justified to use these ratios as reflecting
the maximum such rates likely to be encountered in the project, since civil
engineering accounts for over 90% of the foreign currency expenditure. If
the Retail Price Index rate of 8.7% were applied to the civil engineering costs,
and the Wholesale rate of 6.3% to plant expenditures, the result would be a
weighted average of 8.4%, or a maximum inflation rate of 8% p.a.
B. Local Costs
5.        The only price indices available for Nigeria are consumer prices for
urban income groups from 1961 onwards. The 1970-72 period shows a very rapid
increase in prices, particularly of foodstuffs, following the civil war.
The report of the 1972 Bank economic mission concluded that this was pre-
dominantly a function of "demand-pull" rather thma of "cost-push." In
particular, the mission determined that the high price increase was caused by
rapid expansion of the money supply, increased urban population, and with-
drawal of the active labor force from agriculture to the army. The mission
concluded that inflation was likely to persist over the foreseeable future.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
6.        The inflation rates for 1970-72 therefore seem appropriate for local
costs. The most relevant rates are those for Lagos. The weights appropriate
to food and non-food items are not know, but inflation rates for the latter
are clearly much lower. However, a large proportion of local costs of the
project relates to skilled or semi-skilled labor, and it appears that, with
respect to money wages, the supply of this labor is not very elastic in the
Lagos area. It is therefore probable that the increase in future wage rates
will substantially reflect any cost increaae that the labor force has to
bear. Thus the rate of increase in money wages is likely to be determined
by the rate of increase of the total cost of living index rather than by
its non-food element.
7.        This does not allow for any increasq in the average level of real
wage rates, assuming that the increase in deand for labor generated by the
project is insignificant in relation to totl eRployment (skilled and semi-
skilled) in the Lagos area. The small proportion of local costs which is
not for labor may rather be subject to the rate of increase of the non-food
element of the cost-of-living index. Making allowance for this would suggest
using a maximum inflation percentage for local costs which would be rather
less than that of consumer prices. Based on the above and on the figures
sho-wn on page 3 of this Annex, a maz }uw inflation rate of 10% p.a. has finally
been assumed.



AN1TEX 11
Page 3
PRICE INDICtS
Selected Industrial. Countries
Annual Increase %  tl)
Country           Wholesale                     Retail                   Export
1973-1970    1970-1972(3)    1963-1970   1970-1972(3)1963-1970   1970-1972(1T
United States         2.3          5.3              3.5         6.9          2.8         5.9
Canada                2.3          6.6              3.4         7.6          2.5         2.8
United Kingdom        3.5          6.3              4.4         8.7          3.9         8.7
France                3.1          4.6              3.9         8.0          1.8        11.4
W. Germany            1.0          5.4              2.6         6.o          2.1         4.6
Italy                 2.5          5.4              3.6         7.1          1.4         4..3
Japan                1.6           1.5              5.4         7.8          1.5         1.5
Ratios: (2)  1963-1969
Increase in Civil Engineering Costs to Wholesale Price Index 1.33 Retail Price Index 1.03
Increase in Plant & Machinery Costs to Wholesale Price Index 1.03 Retail Price Index 0.78
(1) Source: International Financial Statistics
(2) Source: IFS and data compiled by National Ports Council, London
(3) 3rd Quarter to 3rd Quarter except Canadian, French and Italian exports(2nd Qtr to 2nd Qtr)
Conaumr Price Indices Lower Income Group
Urban Areas - Nieria
Annual Increase %
Lagos               lbadan             Kaduna          Benin
Food   Total        Food    Total       Food    Total  Food   Total
1961-1966     3.7    3.7           3.9      2.8        3.j4    2.7      -      -
1966-1970     6.0    4.7           2.5      3.3        4.4     4.4    8.4    7.8
April 1970    17      11           20       13         12      8       19     16
--April 72         _____I_          _    I_I_I                              I_       I






ANNEX 12
Page 1
NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (APAPA EXTENSION)
Insurance Costs - Rate of Return and Sensitivity Assumptions
1.        The Nigerian Insurance Company estimates that the rate of insurance
of goods between free on board (FOB) at a foreign port, and delivery to the
consignee in Nigeria, is appreciably higher than for similar importation into
a European country. Specifically, while the rate would be on average 1.0%
of the FOB value for a European destination, for Nigeria it ranges between
2.0% and 3.0%. Insurance rates are quoted in ad valorem terms.
2.        In calculating the benefits from the project, it has been assumed
that (i) any reduction on insurance rates brought about by the project will
apply to Lagos only; (ii) the distribution by value between Lagos and other
ports is proportionate to the distribution by volume; and (iii) export
insurance is not affected. All of these assumptions are probably conservative.
3.        The calculations are set out below.  For simplicity, it has been
assumed that an overall reduction results. To test sensitivity, the effect
of differential reductions between containerized and non-containerized traffic
has been calculated. The value of import traffic affected has been assumed
to increase in accordance with the traffic projections (Table 3) until
capacity of the existing facilities plus the extension is reached about 1979.
4.        The insurance reduction effect is expected to commence before the
first stage of the project is completed. This is because container services
can be expected to get underway before the new facilities are in operation.
The effect is expected to increase as the project approaches completion,
reaching the final estimate of is per annum (representing a decrease in
insurance risk of about 10%) by project completion.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Insurance Cost Reductions (Naira Million)
1974    1975     1976     1977      1978     1979      1980
Value of Imports
through Lagos        980   1,090    1,250    1,470    1,700    2,000    2,000
Average reduction
in insurance costs
(%)                 1/16    1/16       1/8     3/16      1/4       1/4      1/4
Value of Insurance
cost reduction      0.16    o.68      1.56     2.76      4.25     5.00     5.00
($i million equiv.)   0.93    1.03     2.37     4.20     6.45      7.60     7.60
Sensitivity (1)                                          5.10      5.55     5.55
(2)                                          7.40     8.10      8.10
Insurance Reductions (1) Containerized 3/8%: General 1/8%
(2) Containerized 3/8%: General 1/4%
It is assumed that containerized cargo value per ton is 3 times that of
general cargo.



ANNEX 13
NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (APAPA EXTENSION)
Ship-Waiting Time - Rate of Return and Sensitivity Assumptions
1.        It is likely that by 1976 the port of Lagos, without the projeet
will be operating at the same level of berth utilization as in 1971, i.e.,
93%. In subsequent years demand would increase sharply, and consequently
the ship waiting time involved would theoretically approach infinity.
Consequently, the benefit from the project which will bring supply of
capacity olose to demand would be extremely great and in fact almost infinite.
In practice, some emergency measures(such as discussed in para. 6.05of the
main report) would be employed.  Consequently, the analysis of benefits from
reduced ship-waiting time has been confined to the marginal 200 meters of the
project, i.e., the benefit derived from 1,000 meters extension instead of
800 meters. Two hundred meters represents approximately one berth.
3.        The benefit from this berth depends upon three factors:(a) the
value placed on ship-waiting time, (b) the berth capacity, and (c) the
berth utilization that occurs with and without the berth.
(a) This is assessed as $2,000 per day, based on Bank data.
(b) The best estimate is that of a bagged cargo berth.
(c) To obtain a minimum estimate of benefits, it is assumed that
in the second year of availability, 1979,the berth would be
fully utilized. In the third and subsequent years, demand would
be so great that the ship waiting time without the last 200
meters would be in danger of again approaching infinity,and
utilization even with a total of 1,000 meters would be
unacceptably high. Accordingly,it is assumed that additional
capacity (resulting from the proposed port study) will come on
stream in 1980, and utilization of the marginal 200 meters wotld
remain at the 1979 level.






ANNEX I4
Page I
NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND TA('08 PORT PROJECT (APAPA EXTENSION)
Tariffs for Principal Services
Lagos Port
ITEMS                           Base                        Dues or rates
(Naira)
Harbor Du.es
Passengers                      Each                            1.00
Cargo import                    Per Ton Weightor Measurement  0.68
Cargo export                     "   "    "                     0 o.68
Light and Buoyage Dues          Per Ton or NRT!/up to
30 days                       0.18
Per Ton or NRT for each
day beyond 30                 0.18
Anchorage Dues
Mooring                         Per Ton or NRT for every
48 hours                      0.015
Berthing,                       Per Ship exceeding 500 tons
NRT per attendance           12.00
Berthage                        Per Ton or NRT for the first
24 hours                      0.03
Per bon or NRT for each
succeeding period of 12 hours 0.015
Pilotage Dues                   Per Ship piloted per foot of
draught over ix inches up to
sixteen feet                  1.76
Per Ship per additional foot
of draught                    0.19
1/ Non-registered tonnage.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
Shorehandling and Wharfage Rates
Trport goods                      Per Ton Weight or Measurement       1.70
Export goods                       Per Ton Weight or Measurement      1.50
Storage Rates (in sheds or
warehouses)
Imports after 72 hours free time Per Ton and per day: 6 first days 0.30
6 following
days 0.60
thereafter
per day   1.20
Exports after 14 days for goods
controlled by the Department
of Marketing and Exports          Per Ton and per day 14 first days 2.00
Hereafter     4.00
after 7 days for other goods       Per ton and per Day 7 first days  2.60
7 following
days     6.oo
thereafter   14.60
Haulage on Rails Rates              Per Ton                            0.36
Per 4-wheeled wagon                2.00
8-          i                  4.00
Crane Rates  (25 ton capacity,)   Per Lift                             1 .10
Per Hour                            3.30
Towage Rates                        Per Ship across the bar inwards
to berth or mooring per tug   120.00
Fresh Water Supply                  Per Ton of                         1 .16



ANNEX 15
NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT (APAPA EXTENSION)
Financial Forecasts - Principal Assumptions
The financial forecasts are based on the following principal
assumptions:
1)   Traffic forecasts as determined in Chapter 4 and Table 3
2)   No tariff changes which would not compensate a correlative
variation of costs
3)   Staff levels remaining constant
4)  Average inflation rate of operational expenditure = 4.5% (the
income account of NPA shows a breakdown by nature of activity,
but does not separate out charges for staff, materials,and external
services)
5)   Reaults of revaluation of fixed assets not anticipated
6)  Nigerian Naira 1 = US$1.52
7)   The proposed Bank loan of US$55.0 million at an
interest rate of 7.25% per annum, and to be repaid in 25 years,
including a five-year grace period






NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT
NIGERIAN PORT AUTHORITY ORGANIZATION CHART
Minister
of Transport
GENAIL
|   MANAGER'S                                                       General Manager
DEPARTMENT
Taning     
Ma-g-ant
and Tr-affin,
Traning Centr
adCraft Training
Co                                                          trollor of           Controller of            Controller of            C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-  f    b.
E~~tabli~h-t       a    trw                        nnet                 Eniernto,es                                       0'dg
Medical 1111  P,oact Panning           A nets                    D ckVard               Tendors.y.
Statist-             P.~~sl  nesmner
Pnr"              Lagos Fort           AIOp'trFies                                                                a                                      Portt               Delta Ports            ..po'
Co-rittet             C pe                 .- amping                                            C.pl.               B ..VC-ammi'ttee                                            Com,plot              uut                             .     mep, C_la11111111Calabar
Qoocs                                                                       G-aaes~                                                                                                                                                    -V
Deckyard                                                                                                          Docky.,                                  .kardEg- o
EngineeringEgiem                                                                                                                                          En-gm.e-rig                                                                 fanb-
Harboars                                                                  Ilarnoo-                                                                        Hb-labor                                                                   Finance
Finance                                                                   Finance                                                                         FiOn-ce                                                                   opoati-n
operation                                                                 opertions                                                                       Opera.tions                                                                Stor
stores                                                                    Staes                                                                           Stoems                                                                     Estats
Estates                                                                   Es.tats                                                                         Estate
War,d Baok-7387lR)






TRAllCIT ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~P000                                                   51001   RA
-O----n
TYIA|RS    SETO                                OF   GN       ROALCARG    BERTHalaAt/' '  RT
.   /7),   W   ,   .  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BB .B  B,BAFWORA
s2 I' el8ewtcnrt                      TYPICAL   CROSS   SECTION   OF   CONTRAINEARC BERTH
1/           ,    IS






NIGERIA
SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT
PERSPECTIVE VIEW
-~ 4
.../                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W,,ld 8a,k- .<. 3R9






NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT (APAPA EXTENSION)
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE CALENDAR YEARS
1973            1974             1975             1976             1977            1978             1979
CIVIL WORKS
Prequalification of tender-ers
Bank's approval
Preparation of tender documents and Bank's approval
Tendering
Tender appraisal. Bank's approval and award
Mobjiization
Dredging and reclamation                                                       _                                      _   *  *
Quay construction                                                                           -
Land works
Demobilization and finishing
Completion of first 220 rm. of berth
Completion of 600 m. of berth
Completion of all berths (1000 in.)
CARGO HANDLING EQUIPMENT
(a) Container Handling Equipment
Preparation ot specification                                            -
Prequalification of tenderers
Bank's approval
Tendering and Bank's approval
Supply and erection
(b)Break-bulk Equipment
Preparation of specification
Prequal fication of tenderers                                                                        _
Bank's approval
Tendering and Bank's approval
Supply






NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT
Actual and Forecast Lagos Dry Cargo Traffic
TRAFFIC
(million tons)
6.0     -                        llI
1 Forecast Traffic
. 2. Capacity of Existing Berths
with Increased Productivity
3 Optimum Total Capacity with Project
.5
59 70                                                           -a-     4 75 7; 77       
W            3       9
3.0 1          __ _  _              _ _ _               _  _ _    _  _ _     _ _ _     _ _ _
1970      71         72        73        74        75        76        77         78       79         so
VVorld Bank-7392(2R)






NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT
Ship Waiting Time Ratios with 800/1000 Metres Extension
3.0
U =  1979 Ratios
2.5      *     A    1980 Ratios
Lu
Lli
U
2.0                                                                                        
LU                 Note: 1. Full lines are based on
Erlang's formula service                   /
1                   ~~~~~~times vary exponentially. K=1I
2. Broken lines show case with
uii
]  1 O                       Number ofuniform service time.K=            .
a   as </4-f  lbLU                                                                                   a 
0
0, 4<"D4=;   710  
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LU 
IL                          Number of berths
1.0_                      _   __                                   _-
0                                             .4                       a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
BERTH OCCUPANCY %
GRAPH SHOWING RELATION BETWEEN                      E  E :E            AND BERTH OCCUPANCY
World Bank - 7393mR)






,A,T
/1          -.      S~~OKOTOKT,O                                                   *".
O,         ~       ~~~K.-r N-m\On
P~~~ot sku'T ~~~ ~AIDUiGURI
N"~~~~ R  H  W E S T E R N~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
dA j .                                                                                                         z
Yelw     nNagTo Aa                                                                                                                       T        R  
N 0 R T H  T R A LRS  SSTE
6i, ~~~~~~~~~q uEPOT                                                                   - Ad    n2    4                                                                                                               0      0    O
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N T ~~~~~~~~                                    ~~~~~~                                                                        ~88102106
rK VN. W                                                                                                                                                              ' ,,ooor,  w~,o  b  A
I~~~~~ A27 "V'0 4..o.4 TO.u



I



NIGERIA
SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT
LAYOUT OF EXISTING INSTALLATIONS
AND PROJECT
.Proposed Dredging
.  Rec oRoed Are-
Ex.st,Iog Fec I Ier
0    :  0  ;    0   > t  X,$re   :  0: <h:    0 X  t .  > 0          0                 =   ~~~~~~~~~Mom  Roods
B rfhy-i- Lies i Meters
_N                     (Levels are blow  low  we/er
ordinary op-g tides_
A, P   P A
.N~~ --/7X 
TIN CAN. 15LAND
C'..k~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ed'p                                                          ). I
17   nyj   /      A                                                         Pr,irr     ol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VCTpRIA  ISLAND
__   AFRICA                                                                                          \ / 
JNGERIA       ,,                                                                                                                                          _
IesmV  i.ior   c   1  / ~~>   *,                                                                  t            \                           -|i






MARCH 197-2
NIGERIA
0/>                      czf<                                                                                                                     j   SECOND LAGOS PORT PROJECT
6           0                                          N                 ~~~~~~~~~LAYOUT OF QUAYS
7                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT SHOWN iN RED
~~~~~~~~A0  \    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 50 I    5    0
-~~~~~~.            .    . # .    .    .     .    .     .    .     .//c-l/AS
.  .     .   .   .  -. .  .   O .  .   .  .
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/C
*,***  7**\     ..*.....*. .....IC
k                -           - . . . . . .              . .....                    >    . . 
<~/.............                                                                                                                       0 (b 'aGtSrn l.:o................o',,,.  ,,  A0  
~~~  ( r e e *rS~~~~~~t r, AG50N * h .                       . . . . . .  . .!
C/AS   d d l e   _   _ .- - - ' -  S                                     --        , , t} /   m                'l _ y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FRIC



