OFFICIA L
DOGU}MTS      LOAN NUMBER 2023 DO
Loan Agreement
(Cocoa and Coffee Development Project)
between
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                          g   ~1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2023 DO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                4            , 1981, between
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS Parts A and D of the Project will be carried out by
Banco Agricola with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Banco
Agricola part of the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter pro-
vided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and Banco Agricola pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Agreement;


﻿-2-
(b) "sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
Banco Agricola out of the proceeds of the Loan to a sub-borrower
for a sub-project;
(c) "sub-borrower" means a borrower to which Banco Agricola
proposes to make or has made a sub-loan;
(d) "sub-project" means a specific agricultural development
project included in Part A of the Project to be carried out by a
sub-borrower utilizing the procceds of a sub-loan;
(e) "Law No. 6186" means the Ley de Fomento Agricola of the
Borrower, dated February 12, 1963, establishing Banco Agricola;
(f) "SEA" means the Secretariat of State for Agriculture
(Secretarla de Estado de Agricultura) of the Borrower; and
(g) "Cocoa Department" and "Coffee Department" mean the
Departamento de Cacao and Departamento de Caf6 of the Borrower,
respectively, under the Production Under-secretariat of SEA.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-four million dollars ($24,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Section, if,
because of the review of Banco Agricola's operations relating to
cocoa and coffee production to be carried out pursuant to Section
3.05 of this Agreement, the Borrower and the Bank are unable to
agree on necessary changes in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the


﻿-3-
Bank may request the Borrower not to present withdrawal applica-
tions from the Loan Account in respect of Part A of the Project
for new sub-loans after the date of such request, and the Borrower
shall refrain therefrom until such time as such agreement has been
reached by the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods for Parts B through E of the Project to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts B, C and
E of the Project through SEA, and shall cause Banco Agricola to
carry out Parts A and D of the Project, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and agricultural policies and practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-4-
(b) The Borrower shall provide part of the proceeds of
the Loan to Banco Agricola as a capital contribution under a
subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
Banco Agricola, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank, and which shall include, in respect of
sub-loans, the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause Banco Agrf-rola not
to make available loans to cocoa and coffee producers for purposes
similar to those under the Project, on more favorable terms and
conditions than those applicable to sub-loans.
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause Banco Agricola to make sub-loans on
terms whereby Banco Agricola shall obtain, by written contract
with the sub-borrower or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank
and Banco Agricola, including the right of Banco Agricola to:
(i) require the sub-borrower to carry out and operate the sub-
project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with sound agricultural, technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that: (1)
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price, and (2) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
sub-project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representa-
tives of the Borrower or the Bank, if the Borrower or the Bank
shall so request, such goods and the sites and works included in
the sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents; and (iv) suspend or terminate the right of the
sub-borrower to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure
by such sub-borrower to perform its obligations under its contract
with Banco Agricola.
(b) The Borrower shall cause Banco Agricola to exercise
its rights in relation to each sub-project in such manner as to:
(i) protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and Banco


﻿-5-
Agricola; (ii) comply with its obligations under the Subsidiary
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of Part A of the Pro-
ject.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause Banco Agricola to
employ, for purposes of the execution of Parts A and D of the
Project, about 13 credit agents and about 13 assistants, all such
agents and assistants to be adequately qualified and experienced.
Section 3.05. The Borrower and Banco Agricola shall,
*during the execution of the Project, from time to time and at
least once a year, review with the Bank the operations of Banco
Agrfcola relating to cocoa and coffee production, the first such
review to be carried out by October 1, 1982, and shall agree with
the Bank on any changes in Schedule 5 to this Agreement necessary
as a consequence of such review.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for Parts B through
E of the Project against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall employ during the execution
of the Project: (a) about 30 field agents for the Cocoa Depart-
ment; and (b) about 20 field agents, about 25 para-technical staff
and about 5 supervisors for the Coffee Department; all such
agents, staff and supervisors to be adequately qualified and
experienced.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall carry out Part C (2) of the
Project in accordance with programs, satisfactory to the Bank, for
the training abroad of individual staff members or groups of staff
members of the Cocoa Department and Coffee Department; such
programs to include conditions for participation and criteria for
selection of candidates.


﻿-6-
Section 3.09. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of Parts C (1) and C (2) of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ agricultural consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
Parts B, C and E of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and docu-
ments; (iii) shall furnish to the Bank semi-annual reports, not
later than two months after the end of each calendar semester,
including production, marketing and financial data on the Project
and information concerning credit use and recovery, and technical
performance of sub-borrowers; and (iv) shall furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from


﻿-7-
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their res-
pective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Loan,
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It ±s the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created
on assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions,
the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or ex-
change stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.


﻿-8-
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records, including separate accounts, adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound account-
ing practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in
respect of Parts B, C and E of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Bosrower shall: (i) have the separate accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the said
separate accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause Banco Agricola
to maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor and record
the progress of Parts A and D of the Project and of each sub-
project (including their cost and the benefits to be derived from
them) and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition
of Banco Agricola, including separate accounts reflecting all
the expenditures for Part A of the Project on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditures.
(b) The Borrower shall cause Banco Agricola to retain,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expendi-
tures for Parts A and D of the Project on account of which with-
drawals were requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditures and shall enable the Bank's accre-
dited representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause Banco Agricola to:
(a) maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition;


﻿-9-
(b) have its accounts, financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) and the
separate accounts referred to in Section 4.03 (a) of this Agree-
ment for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(c) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds of
the Loan Account withdrawn on the basis of certificates of
expenditures have been used to make payments for goods received,
or works or services performed, and that such goods, works and
services were eligible for financing under this Agreement and were
used in the carrying out of Part A of the Project; and
(d) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
its financial statements and said separate accounts and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that:
(a) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that Banco Agricola will be able to
perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement;
(b) Law No. 6186 of the Borrower shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the ability of Banco Axr1cola to
carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in
the Subsidiary Agreement; and
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of Banco Agrfcola or for the suspension of its operations.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the events specified in
Section 5.01 (b) and (c) of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower &-ad Banco Agricola.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Banco
Agricola and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Banco
Agricola in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date              -)llft.  /  is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretario de Estado de Agricultura of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Estado de Agricultura
Centro de los H&roes
Santo Domingo
Repiblica Dominicana


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
Secretaria de Agricultura         3460535 (ITT) or
Santo Domingo                     326439C (RCA)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Latin America and Caribbean


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category or Sub-category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category or Sub-category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Medium-term credit for:
(i) Rehabilitation of        1,600,000        70%
cocoa plantations
(ii) Cocoa replanting         6,000,000        70%
(iii) Coffee replanting       11,400,000        70%
(iv) Private coffee             400,000        70%
nurseries
(v) Cocoa and coffee         1,600,000        70%
processing facili-
ties
(2) Consultants services            600,000        100%
and training abroad
of staff of the Cocoa
Department and Coffee
Department
(3) Vehicles and equipment          400,000        100% of foreign
for technical assistance                      expenditures
staff of SEA
(4) Unallocated                   2,000,000
TOTAL        24,000,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category or Sub-category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category or Sub-category, the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category or Sub-
category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
or Sub-category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category or Sub-category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category or Sub-category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion,


﻿- 14 -
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to improve the productivity and
income of small-scale cocoa and coffee producers, and to increase
production and export of cocoa and coffee.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Making of sub-loans by Banco Agricola to cocoa and
coffee producers for:
1.   rehabilitation of about 4,600 ha of cocoa plantings
distributed among about 2,000 farms;
2.   replanting of about 6,400 ha of cocoa plantings
distributed among about 2,800 farms;
3.   replanting of about 5,000 ha of coffee plant-
ings distributed among about 5,000 farms;
4.   about 1,000 cocoa fermentation boxes and about 300
cocoa sun-drying facilities, and about 4,000 coffee
depulping machines; and
5.   establishment of about 520 private coffee
nurseries.
Part B:   Establishment of about 22 cocoa nurseries and about 52
coffee nurseries by SEA, and acquisition and utilization
of about 5 trucks for the cocoa nurseries and about 3
trucks for the coffee nurseries.
Part C:
1.   Provision of technical assistance by SEA staff to cocoa
and coffee producers.
2.   Training of SEA field staff and of cocoa and coffee
producers.
3.   Acquisition and utilization by SEA of about 15 vehicles,
about 40 motorcycles and about 100 mules.


﻿- 16 -
Part D:   Strengthening of the support services of Banco Agricola,
and acquisition and utilization of about 13 motorcycles
for purposes of Part A of the Project.
Part E:   Monitoring of the carrying out of the Project, and
evaluation of the impact of the Project on the produc-
tion of cocoa and coffee in the Dominican Republic.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1985.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1986
through   February 15, 1998                925,000
On August 15, 1998                              875,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                            1.70%
before maturity
More than three years but                            3.40%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                          6.20%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                           8.50%
not more than fifteen
years before maturity
More than fifteen years                              9.60%
before maturity


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the publication of the Bank entitled
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cre-
dits" dated March 1977, July 1980 edition (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement .notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
tha Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be pro-
cured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) custom3 duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 20 -
the Dominican Republic may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Dominican Republic if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Dominican Republic
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B,: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C Lids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 21 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the purchase of goods costing $100,000 equiva-
lent or less may be awarded in accordance with local competitive
bidding procedures.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the


﻿- 22 -
delivery to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Lending Policies and Procedures
1.   The participation of the Borrower in the financing of
a sub-project through Banco Agricola shall not exceed
90% of the total cost of such sub-project; not more than
70% of a sub-loan shall be financed with the proceeds of
the Loan and the remaining shall be provided by the
Borrower to Banco Agricola as a capital contribution.
2.   SEA extension staff and credit agents of Banco Agricola
shall prepare the plans for farm development, for the
cocoa and coffee processing facilities, and for nursery
investment. Farm development plans shall specify the
agronomic practices to be followed and include cash flow
projections. of investments proposed.
3.   Banco Agricola shall evaluate proposed sub-projects
and the creditworthiness of sub-loan applicants.
4.   Banco Agricola shall assume the risk of default by
sub-borrowers.
5.   Sub-borrowers shall contribute at least 10% of the
cost of each sub-project.
6.   To be eligible for a sub-loan, individual farmers shall
not own more than 18 ha of cocoa or 6 ha of coffee.
7.   Sub-loans shall carry interest rates as follows:
(i) for sub-loans of less than $2,000 equivalent to
farmers owning less than 2 ha, and for sub-loans to
farmers' associations and cooperatives in which at
least 80% of the members own less than 2 ha each:
11% per annum, including interest charges and
commissions; and
(ii) all other sub-loans: 12% per annum including
interest charges and a commission of 1% per annum.
8.   Repayment and grace period terms for each sub-loan shall
be established by Banco Agricola in consultation with


﻿- 24 -
SEA technicians on the basis of the cash flow projec-
tions of the corresponding farm development or nursery
investment plan.
9.   Repayment and grace period terms shall be as follows:
(i) sub-loans for cocoa rehabilitation, and sub-loans
for nurseries and cocoa and coffee processing
facilities that are not part of an overall farm
development plan shall be made for a term of not
more than 6 years, including a period of grace of
not more than 1 year; and
(ii) sub-loans for cocoa and coffee replanting shall be
made for a term of not more than 10 years, includ-
ing a period of grace of not more than 4 years.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 2!V"kday of t4       -, 198 
FOR SECRETARY


