Report No. PID6014
Project Name                     China-Health Nine Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Basic Health
Project ID                       CNPE36953
Borrower                         Peoples' Republic of China
Implementation Agencies          Ministry of Health (MOH)
Participating Provinces and Institutions
Contact Address                  Foreign Loan Office
Ministry of Health
Beijing, China
Telephone:       (86-10) 6303-3033
Fax:             (86-10) 6303-0077
Project Appraisal Date           December 1998
Expected Board Date              April 1999
Background
1.      China has made remarkable achievements in improving the health
status of its population since 1949. These achievements were made
much faster than the rate of economic growth and with far less
resources than most countries. However, there is good evidence that
this progress has slowed since early 1980s, despite accelerating
growth of the economy and personal income levels. Furthermore, the
discrepancy in health status between the richer coastal areas and
the poorer inland provinces has become worse. At the same time, the
country is now facing newer health problems including those
associated with economic growth and opening to outside world.
2.      The discrepancy in health status is even more pronounced in
maternal and child health (MCH), which hurts the weakest members of
the society most. Such discrepancy is not only limited between rich
and poor provinces, this is also serious within the provinces.
Furthermore, recent research and studies have indicated the rates of
improvement in maternal and child health have not only slowed in
China, they have leveled in some areas and even have reversed in
some others.
3.      Perhaps no new health problem in China is more critical than
the emergence of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and acquired
immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and the re-emergence of the
sexually transmitted diseases STDs). The first AIDS case in China
was reported in 1985. This was followed by increasing number of HIV
cases among drug-users in Yunnan Province with the identification of
146 cases in 1989. By late 1997, over 8,000 HIV infections were
officially reported, actual number is believed to be much larger.
STDs were believed to have been eradicated from China by the 1970s,
but they have increased alarmingly since then. In 1995, the
reported STD cases numbered 362,000. Many believe that there are far



more unreported cases.
Project Objectives
4.      The proposed project has two main objectives. First, it would
reduce maternal and child morbidity and mortality in poor areas of
China and would also introduce suitable programs for early child
development. Second, the it would implement innovative programs,
proven effective elsewhere, to prevent and control HIV/AIDS and STDs.
Project Description
5.      The proposed project would have two main components: maternal
health and child development; and HIV/AIDS and STDs control.
I. Maternal Health and Child Development will have the following
sub-components:
(a) Basic MCH care in counties, townships and villages,
including: (i) maternal          care through systematic prenatal care,
appropriate obstetric care and effective         management of high-risk
pregnancies; (ii) sick child management through           effective
management of childhood illness, malnutrition and newborn care;
(iii)   well-child care and development, including nutrition
interventions and prevention     and treatment of priority
diseases; and (iv) promotion of information, education and
communications.
(b) Improved access to essential care through effective
financing mechanisms.
(c) Operational research on a number of innovative MCH
interventions.
II. HIV/AIDS and STD Control will include the following sub-components:
(a) Policy and institutional development to raise
awareness and commitment at      all levels, to strengthen multi-
sectoral collaboration and to build capacity of public, private
and non-government institutions.
(b) STD management, by: (i) improving STD protocols; (ii)
strengthening    institutions; (iii) improving services; (iv)
improving the contribution of private    sector; (v) and operational
research.
(c) Program interventions to: (i) change behavior; (ii)
demonstrate innovative programs; (iii) condom social marketing; and
(iv) HIV/AIDS patient support.
(d) Blood management and nosocomial infection control,
through institutional and management improvements and the
provision of equipment.
(e) Surveillance and monitoring programs, including: (i)
- 2-



epidemiological surveillance; (ii) behavioral surveillance; and
(iii) specific research programs.
Project Cost and Financing
6.      The cost of the project is tentatively estimated at US$ 140
million, including the Bank Group financing of US$ 70 million
consisting of US$50 million from IDA Credit and US$20 million from
IBRD Loan, as follows:
In Million US Dollars
Components                       Government      IDA     IBRD     Total
Maternal Health and
Child Development                        25.0             35.0       60.0
STD/HIV/AIDS                     35.0            15.0     20.0     70.0
TOTAL                    60.0           50.0      20.0    130.0
Project Implementation
7.      Overall coordination will be provided by a Project Leading
Group headed by the Minister of Health with members representing a
number of concerned multisectoral agencies. Under the Leading
Group, a Project Coordination Group will be established which will
coordinate regular project management and become responsible for the
reporting requirements. The responsibility for technical
coordination and direct supervision of implementation will lie with
MOH departments, including the Maternal and Child Health Department,
the Disease Control Department and the Medical Administration
Department. The direct responsibility for project implementation
will lie with the project provinces.
Project Sustainability
8.      The project is considered sustainable because of    high
commitment of the Government to the main objectives of the proposed
project and considering the current policy to significantly increase
emphases and resources for the preventive health investments. The
budgetary impact of project is expected to be modest and manageable.
Lessons Learnt from Other Bank Projects
9.      While the Bank has supported some MCH services under several
Bank projects in China, the ongoing Comprehensive MCH Project (Cr
2655-CHA) has provided important lessons that would be very relevant
in the design of the MCH component of this project. Two lessons from
the on-going project stand out. First, the poorest can not
adequately benefit from the MCH services in the China's rural poor
areas unless arrangements are made to help finance the services.
Second, for a successful MCH program, a comprehensive population-
based approach is required instead of programs implemented narrowly
within the institutional boundaries.
-3-



10.     The Bank's significant involvement in the AIDS/STD programs
only started with the Disease Prevention Project (Cr 2794-CHA) which
was started in 1996. While the lessons from that project are still
limited, it is clear that, any significant success in the control of
AIDS and STD will require: (a) a multi-sectoral approach, and (b)
the implementation of a package of innovative policies and programs
which have not been common to China. The proposed project would
attempt to initiate these measures in significant ways.
Environmental Aspect
11.     This project is not expected to create any adverse affect on
environment. However, special attentions will have to paid to
ensure that medical wastes, especially needles and syringes, are
handled properly.
Project Benefits
12.     The project would provide a number of   benefits.   The MCH
component would help improve the services in the poorest areas of
China and it would also include measures to improve access and
service utilization. By following new approaches, the project is
expected to re-invigorate currently slow improvements in maternal
and child mortality rates. Furthermore, it would also introduce
early child development measures in a significant scale. The
AIDS/STD component is expected to establish effective measures to
prevent and control these new diseases which have been increasing at
alarming rates.
Risks
13.     There are two major risks in the project.   First, there is a
possibility that the project will fail to receive adequate
commitment necessary to design and implement the required bold
policy measures and innovative interventions to prevent and control
AIDS/STDs. The seriousness of the present crisis is expected to
help assure the necessary commitment. Second, there is a possibility
that the MCH part of the project would fail to receive adequate
counterpart financing. This risk is expected to be reduced because
of the recent decisions of the State Council to significantly raise
investments on preventive health.
Contact Point:           The World Bank InfoShop
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone: (202) 458 5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending February 20, 1998.
- 5 -



