Page  1
March 29, 2001
Ms. Zou Jiayi
Acting Director-General
International Department
Ministry of Finance
Beijing, China
Dear Ms. Zou:
Re:
Health Nine Project (Cr. 3201-CHA & Ln. 4462-CHA)
Amendment of the Development Credit Agreement 
I refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated July 29, 1999, between the 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the  International Development Association (the 
Association) for the above referenced Project (DCA).   I refer also to your letter 
dated March 7, 2001, requesting the Association to amend the DCA by increasing the 
percentage of expenditures for Part C(2) of the Project to be financed by the Credit 
and the Loan and to reallocate the amounts of the Credit and the Loan presently 
allocated for Part (C)(2) of the Project. 
I am pleased to inform you that the Association agrees to reallocate SDR 169,000 
from Category 7(a) to Categories 7(b)(i) and 7(d) and US$152,000 from Category 7(a) to 
Categories 7(b)(i) and 7(d).   
Additionally, the Association agrees to amend the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to the DCA by increasing the disbursement percentage of Category (7)(b)(i) 
from 65% to 100% and the disbursement percentage of Category (7)(d) from 60% to 85%.   
After the amendment and reallocation, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and 
the Loan to Category (7) for Part C(2) of the Project and the percentage of 
expenditures to be financed thereunder will read as shown in the Annex to this letter. 
Except as specifically amended by this letter, all other provisions of the DCA 
shall remain in full force and effect.
Please confirm your agreement to the amendment set out above by having an 
authorized representative of the Borrower sign and date the form of confirmation on 
the enclosed duplicate original of this letter and returning it to us for our files.  
Upon receipt of the copy of this letter countersigned on behalf of the Borrower, this 
amendment will become effective as of the date of countersignature.
In view of their interest in the matter, I am sending a copy of this letter to 
the Ministry of Health.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Country Director, China
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Mr. Jin Kuilin
Authorized Representative
Deputy Director General 
Date:  April 16, 2001
Page  2
