                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR0000480




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
            (AUSL-23612 IBRD-44620 IDA-32010 JPN-26233 JPN-53812)




                                     ON A

                                  LOAN/CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 46.8 MILLION
                         (US$65.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                     FOR A

                            HEALTH NINE PROJECT



                                  April 30, 2009




Human Development Sector Unit
China Country Management Office
East Asia and Pacific Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective December 2008)
                                 Currency Unit = Yuan
                                   Y 1.00 = US$0.15
                                   US$1.00 = Y6.85

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 to December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS    Acquired Immune Deficiency           M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
        Syndrome
ALT     Alanine Aminotransferase             MA         Medical Assistance

AusAID  Australian Agency for International  MCH        Maternal and Child Health
        Development
BBI     Blood-borne Infections               MDG        Millennium Development Goals
BOH     Bureau of Health                     MFA        Medical Financial Assistance
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy          MIS        Management Information System
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy         MMR        Maternal Mortality Rate
CDC     Center for Disease Control           MOH        Ministry of Health
CMS     Cooperative Medical System           MSM        Men who have Sex with Men
CSW     Commercial Sex Worker                MTR        Mid-term Review
DFID    U.K. Department for International    NARL       National AIDS Reference Laboratory
        Development
ECD     Early Childhood Development          NCMS       New Cooperative Medical Service
EPI     Expanded Program of Immunization     NGO        Nongovernmental Organization
FLO     Foreign Loan Office                  NGU        Nongonococcal Urethritis
GFATM   Global Fund for AIDS, Tuberculosis,  PAD        Project Appraisal Document
        and Malaria
GOC     Government of China                  PDO        Project Development Objective
HBV     Hepatitis B Virus                    PMO        Project management office
HCV     Hepatitis C Virus                    STD        Sexually Transmitted Disease
HIV     Human Immunodeficiency Virus         TTL        Task Team Leader
IDU     Intravenous Drug User                U5         Under five years of age
IEC     Information, Education and           UNAIDS     Joint United Nations Programme on
        Communication                                   HIV/AIDS
IMR     Infant Mortality Rate                VCT        Voluntary Counseling and Testing
JSDF    Japanese Social Development Fund     VUBD       Voluntary Unpaid Blood Donor /
                                                        Donation
KPI     Key Performance Indicator            WHO        World Health Organization

                             Vice President:   James W. Adams, EAPVP
                           Country Director:   David R. Dollar, EACCF
                     Acting Sector Manager:    John Langenbrunner, EASHD
       Project Team Leader/ICR Team Leader     Magnus Lindelow, EASHD

                                                 CHINA

                                HEALTH NINE PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design.............................................. 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 9
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 15
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 23
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 25
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 29
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 31
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 32
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 33
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 39
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 42
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 43
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 43
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 44
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 56
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 57
 MAP IBRD 30065

A. Basic Information

                                                                     China Health Nine
Country:                China                  Project Name:
                                                                     Project
                                                                     IBRD-44620,IDA-
Project ID:             P036953                L/C/TF Number(s):     32010,TF-23612,TF-
                                                                     26233,TF-53812
ICR Date:               04/30/2009             ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:             PRC
Original Total
                        USD 60.0M              Disbursed Amount:     USD 61.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Health
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Australian Agency for International Develoopment (AusAID)
Government of Japan


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/05/1998    Effectiveness:                           01/24/2000
Appraisal:             12/01/1998    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/04/1999    Mid-term Review:                         04/09/2004
                                     Closing:              06/30/2006         06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:          Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators          (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                 Quality at Entry
                                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                          No                                      None
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                        94                94
Sub-national government administration                         6                 6


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Child health                                                 Primary          Primary
HIV/AIDS                                                     Primary          Primary
Health system performance                                   Secondary        Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                          Secondary        Secondary
Population and reproductive health                          Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           James W. Adams                  Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:         David R. Dollar                 Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:           John C. Langenbrunner           Maureen Law
Project Team Leader:      Magnus Lindelow                 Jagadish P. Upadhyay
ICR Team Leader:          Magnus Lindelow
ICR Primary Author:       Vivian Lin



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
(1) Reducing maternal and child mortality and morbidity and improving child survival
and development in the poorest areas of five provinces of China; and

  (2) Prevent and control morbidity and mortality due to the human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV), acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), and sexually transmitted


                                            ii

diseases (STDs) by implementing comprehensive programs at the provincial levels, and
by building technical capacity at the Central level.

  (3) Reduce the transmission of blood borne infections by assuring a safe and adequate
blood supply with improved transfusion practices.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
n.a

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target  Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value       Values (from    Revised        Achieved at
                                            approval       Target      Completion or
                                           documents)      Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Reduced maternal mortality
Value
quantitative or 159.3/100000                                         45.1/100000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2001                                             12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Reduce infant mortality
Value
quantitative or 67.9/1000                                            12.5/1000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2001                                             12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Reduce <5 child mortality
Value
quantitative or 80.7/1000                                            15.8/1000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2001                                             12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   HIV Prevalence among ANC attendees
                                                                     Fujian 0.01%
Value           Fujian 0.04%(2003)                                   (2007)
quantitative or Guangxi 0                                            Guangxi 0.31%
Qualitative)    Shanxi 0
                Xinjiang 0.26%                                       Shanxi 0
                                                                     Xinjiang 0.87%
Date achieved 01/01/2001                                             06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %



                                            iii

achievement)
Indicator 5 :   HIV Prevalence among Drug Users

                Fujian: 0.003                                                 Fujian: 0.0017

Value           Guangxi: 0.0018                                               (2007)

quantitative or Shanxi:0.0124                                                 Guangxi: 0.00155

Qualitative)    Xinjiang: N/A                                                 Shanxi:0.0068
                                                                              Xinjiang: N/A

Date achieved 01/01/2001                                                      06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                 approval          Revised       Completion or
                                                documents)     Target Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :   MCH Component:
                #(%) pregnant women with 5 or more ANC visits
Value
(quantitative   16%                                                           75.8%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2001                                                      12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   MCH Component:
                % of hospital delivery rate
Value
(quantitative   30.6%                                                         86.2%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2001                                                      12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   HIV/AIDS and STD Component:
                # of sentinel sites consistently conducting surveillance surveys (annually)
Value
(quantitative   16
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2001
Comments
(incl. %        Dropped, due to lack of sensitivity
achievement)

Indicator 4 :   HIV/AIDS and STD Components:
                # of comfirmed HIV positive



                                                 iv

Value          Fujian 57                                          Fujian 283 (2007)

(quantitative  Guangxi 2                                          Guangxi 1445

or Qualitative)Shanxi 24                                          Shanxi 229
               Xinjiang 1109                                      Xinjiang 2326
Date achieved 01/01/2001                                          06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  condom use in the last sex among CSWs
                                                                  Fujian 74.3%
                                                                  Guangxi

Value          Fujian: 33.5%-52.3%                                (vulnerable group)

(quantitative  Guangxi:59.4% (2002)                               46.6%

or Qualitative)Shanxi: 84.6% (2004)                               Shanxi (vulnerable
               Xinjiang: 86.1% (2001)                             group) 83.1%
                                                                  Xinjiang 92.4%
                                                                  (2007)
Date achieved 02/01/2001                                          06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :  Needle sharing among IDU
                                                                  Fujian 22% (2007)
Value          Fujian: 11%                                        Guangxi 41.9%
(quantitative  Guangxi: 59.5%                                     Shanxi 23.8%
or Qualitative)Shanxi:25.8% (2004)
               Xinjiang:85.1% (2002)                              Xinjiang 42.2%

Date achieved 01/01/2001                                          06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                       Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived              DO                      IP          Disbursements
                                                                   (USD millions)
  1     06/22/1999          Satisfactory           Satisfactory               0.00
  2     12/20/1999          Satisfactory           Satisfactory               0.00
  3     02/08/2000          Satisfactory           Satisfactory               0.34
  4     06/12/2000          Satisfactory           Satisfactory               2.98
  5     12/07/2000          Satisfactory           Satisfactory               3.59
  6     06/07/2001          Satisfactory           Satisfactory               4.19
  7     10/10/2001          Satisfactory           Satisfactory               5.62
  8     04/30/2002          Satisfactory           Satisfactory              12.71
  9     06/24/2002          Satisfactory           Satisfactory              14.61
  10    12/09/2002          Satisfactory           Satisfactory              17.37



                                             v

  11  06/02/2003        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    19.57
  12  12/08/2003        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    23.47
  13  06/23/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    27.96
  14  12/29/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    32.61
  15  06/07/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    35.12
  16  03/27/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    39.60
  17  04/12/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    45.16
  18  03/10/2008        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    56.02



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

China's significant health gains during the 1960s and 1970s earned worldwide
recognition. Following onset of economic reforms in the 1980s, however, the primary
health care system was weakened, reducing access to both curative and preventive
services. With health care increasingly paid out-of-pocket, health inequities rose. Steps
were taken in the 1990s to improve access to primary care, including the attempt to
reintroduce the rural cooperative medical system (CMS). The "contract responsibility
system" was also devised, primarily focusing on the Expanded Program of Immunization
(EPI) and antenatal care. Policies and regulations were adopted to protect the health and
rights of women and children, and the Ministry of Health (MOH) worked to reestablish
the three-tier Maternal and Child Health (MCH) network. However, these efforts were
hindered by inadequacies in MCH worker education, training, and skill acquisition at the
township and village level. Resource and infrastructure use was inefficient and
management capacity was underdeveloped. Financial barriers remained a persistent
impediment to basic MCH services.

In 1998, the Government of China (GOC) restructured the Department of Maternal and
Children's Health by putting it into the same department as community health to build
more integrated urban and rural primary care systems. The basic policy focus stayed
unchanged--to protect the health of mothers and children, particularly to reduce maternal
and infant mortality. While national maternal and child health (MCH) improved over
time, the rural-urban divide and the gap between richer and poorer provinces remained
marked as seen in the incidence of malnutrition, iron deficiency anemia, rickets, and
vitamin A deficiency in the under-five (U5) population of poor areas.

Meanwhile, the rapid economic expansion, greater openness, and increased population
mobility were contributing to new health problems, including the reemergence of
sexually transmitted diseases (STDs)1 and the appearance of human immunodeficiency
virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS). STD case levels also increased
in the mid-1990s as poor-quality STD programs, including preventive and curative
services, were unable to stem transmission. Gonorrhea and syphilis predominate among
reported STDs, but deficiencies in surveillance systems mean the real case total of all
STD types is likely 5­10 times higher than the recorded numbers. HIV/AIDS was first
reported in China in 1985. Since then transmission has occurred in three stages: (a)
1985­89, when infection was sporadic and imported; (b) 1989­93, when transmission
remained limited but was slowly increasing; and (c) post-1994, when case numbers and
geographical spread increased more sharply, predominantly via needle-injecting drug
users, but with sexual transmission becoming important, and some cases attributable to
professional blood donors, mother-to-infant transmission, and men having sex with men
(MSM).

1Following a government crackdown, few STD cases were reported between early 1960 and mid-1970.
Case levels jumped in the late 1970s.

                                               1

Chinese policy and regulations on HIV/AIDS began to shift in the early 1990s. The
Chinese Association of STD & AIDS Prevention and Control was set up in 1993, and a
cornerstone of the new strategy was "multi-sectoral cooperation and all society
participation" (State Council 1995 release of "Opinion of Work on AIDS Prevention and
Control"). Mid- and long-term national plans for AIDS prevention and control (1998­
2010) were drafted through collaboration of seven national ministries and approved by
the State Council in May 1998. Despite these developments, numerous challenges
remained, including: (a) limited government awareness of the extent of the problem, (b)
lack of prevention and control targeted at high-risk groups, (c) relatively weak policy and
regulatory mechanisms, (d) lack of support for and increased stigma of infected persons,
(e) inadequate dissemination of successful international intervention measures being
trialed in country, (f) weak public media, limited public education among youth, and
inadequate nongovernmental organization (NGO) involvement, (g) lack of human
resources, and (h) lack of technical guidelines for intervention.

Rationale for World Bank assistance

The Health IX project responded to both of these situations, pursuing objectives
identified in the February 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). In particular, it
targeted: (a) methods for improving MCH health and disease prevention in poor areas,
and (b) multisectoral approaches for prevention and control of HIV/AIDS and STDs in
high-risk areas.

The project design of both components built on the Bank's longstanding partnership with
China in the health sector. The Health VI project (Comprehensive Maternal and Child
Health) had demonstrated gains in decreasing financial barriers to care for poor women
and improving the quality of clinical care, particularly in the rural medical system.
Gains in improving institutional infrastructure, health sector policy development, and
human resource capacity facilitated Health IX (MCH) design and implementation to
extend what had been learned in Health VI to 113 additional low-income counties in five
relatively low-income provinces/autonomous regions (51 million persons) where
mortality rates were high in 1996 and 1997 as indicated in the project appraisal
document: up to 463 per 100,000 for maternal death (compared to a national rate of 61.9)
and up to 84 per 1,000 for infants (compared to a national rate of 36.4).

The second component drew on lessons from the Health VII project (health promotion
component), which was the first donor-supported effort to address HIV/AIDS and STDs.
While China was still in the early stages of grappling with a potential public health
crisis,2 Health VII (Health Promotion) did provide a framework for developing modern
public health programs, policy and institutional capacity, skilled human resources,


2The Health IX project was designed when recognition was growing that HIV transmission was resulting
from blood donation malpractice in Henan and elsewhere, a rampant STI epidemic was occurring in the
coastal provinces, and HIV was breaking out among drug users in Xinjiang and other provinces. Previous
HIV interventions had been confined mostly within health sectors, and policies did not support
interventions among high-risk groups.

                                                2

surveillance systems, and community-based interventions that could be tapped in
strengthening HIV/AIDS and STD prevention and control. Health VII spotlighted the
need to build capacity in epidemic areas, mobilize full-scale multisectoral involvement,
coordinate large-scale information, education, and communication (IEC) campaigns, and
finally, include private practitioner and NGO participation. These lessons were applied
through a series of innovative Health 9 programs targeting 31 prefectures/cities in 59
counties of four provinces that were considered to be high-risk areas (94 million persons).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Performance
Indicators

The Health IX project is divided into two distinct primary components, with differing
development objectives, target populations, and activities. In addition, the project has a
third component focused on project coordination and support.

    · Component 1--Improved Maternal Health and Child Development--would
        reduce maternal and child mortality and morbidity and improve child survival and
        development in five relatively poor provinces/autonomous regions: Guizhou,
        Hainan, Hunan, Jilin, and Xinjiang.

    · Component 2--Improved Prevention and Control of Human Immunodeficiency
        Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome and Sexually Transmitted
        Diseases (HIV/AIDS and STDs) and Other Blood-Borne Infections--would
        prevent and control these diseases by implementing comprehensive and
        multisectoral public health programs at the provincial level, and by building
        technical capacity at the central level. Provincial activities would be implemented
        in four high-epidemic provinces/autonomous regions: Fujian, Guangxi, Shanxi,
        and Xinjiang.

The following table summarizes the key performance indicators (KPIs) as outlined in
Annex 1 of the PAD. Note that component 2 is divided into two parts, inclusive of
improved blood transfusion practices becoming a separate entity during implementation
and consistent with the results analyses.




                                              3

PDO                                                      KPI
The project will assist the government to:

    (1) Reduce maternal and child mortality       · Improved service quality and access to poor
        and morbility and improve child             families.
        survival and development in the           · Reduced maternal and child mortality and
        poorest areas of China                      morbidity.

    (2) Prevent and control morbility and         · HIV seroprevalence
        mortality due to HIV/AIDS and             · STD prevalence
        STDs, by building technical capacity
        at the Central level and
        implementing comprehensive
        programs at the provincial level.

Component 1                                       · Reduced maternal and child and infant
Reduce maternal and child mortality and             mortality and morbidity
morbidity and improve child survival and          · Increased level of maternal care
development in the five project                   · Better sick-child management
provinces/autonomous regions.                     · Better well-child and systemic newborn care
                                                  · Better family and community participation,
                                                    education, and counseling
                                                  · Better management of MCH services
                                                  · Increased health-worker training
                                                  · Improved access to MCH care services,
                                                    especially for the poor
Component 2                                       · Reduced HIV seroprevalence
(A) Prevent and control morbidity and             · Reduced STD prevalence
mortality due to HIV/AIDS and STDs by             · Increased policy environment supportive of
implementing comprehensive and                      HIV prevention and care
multisectoral public health programs at the       · Improved HIV/STD interventions and
provincial levels, and by building technical        support
capacity at the central level in the four project · Improved HIV/STD surveillance systems
provinces/autonomous regions.

(B) Reduce the transmission of blood-borne        · Increased voluntary blood contributions,
infections by assuring a safe and adequate          quality assurance of testing, and transfusion
blood supply with improved transfusion              practices.
practices in the four project                     · Reduced transmission risks of HIV,
provinces/autonomous regions.                       Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C




                                                 4

Component 3                                    · Provincial and central structure for planning
Provide project coordination and support.        budgeting, management, and technical
                                                 supervision
                                               · Improved provincial-level capacity for
                                                 technical support
                                               · Improved central-level technical support,
                                                 policy development, and national
                                                 dissemination
                                               · Improved capacity of National AIDS
                                                 Reference Laboratory to provide training,
                                                 technical support, and quality assurance for
                                                 HIV testing and surveillance



A number of secondary objectives and performance indicators are institutional and not
detailed in the PAD, but are deemed important for results analysis. These include the
following, by component/subcomponent:

    · Component 1--MCH

       (i) Increased public resource allocation for basic preventative health services
       (ii) Introduction of an improved health worker training program
       (iii) Improving management practices in the system of maternal and neonatal care

    · Component 2(A)--HIV/AIDS and STD

       (i) Strengthened central and provincial government capacity to plan and
       implement effective programs to prevent and control these diseases
       (ii) Development of improved testing methods and procedures by the National
       AIDS Reference Laboratory to improve HIV diagnostic accuracy, and train
       provincial and local personnel in implementing the regimen

    · Component 2(B)--Blood transfusion management

       (i) Development of effective national policies to improve the collection, quality,
       and use of blood products
       (ii) Strengthened provincial and local efforts to rationalize blood product use in
       health service provision

    · Component 3--Combined coordination and support

       (i) Introduction of participatory methodology for the development of health
       education materials, counseling, and communication strategies, which will also
       strengthen program evaluation.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Development objectives and key indicators were not revised. However, in the later stages
of the project, the monitoring framework received increased attention. A systematic
review resulted in modification of terminology for several indicators, a decision to drop a


                                             5

number of indicators from the monitoring framework (on account of the fact that no data
are available, that the interpretation of the indicator is unclear, or that the indicator does
not meaningfully capture (or distinguish) project outcome vs. performance); and a
proposal to include some new indicators to the monitoring framework. These changes
were documented in the mission documents.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The MCH component was designed to annually provide about one million mothers and
their newborns from 113 of China's poorest counties, in five relatively poor
provinces/autonomous region selected for the project based on MCH indicators and
poverty indexes, with greater access to higher-quality health services that had been field-
tested and shown to help reduce MMR and IMR elsewhere in the country. Locally
administered poverty relief funds would reduce medical costs for MCH-related services
(especially hospital delivery care), particularly benefiting the most impoverished
families.

Direct beneficiaries of the HIV/AIDS and STD component included those at highest risk
of contracting these diseases or other blood-borne infections (BBIs) in the 31 prefectures
covered by this part of the project. Other beneficiaries included individuals, households,
and families directly affected by infection. Those especially susceptible to infection
include individuals who engage in high-risk behavior such as intravenous drug users
(IDUs), or commercial sex workers (CSWs) and their clients. The many internal migrants
within China are also vulnerable.3 Improved blood supply management would reduce the
risk of infections from diseases such as hepatitis and HIV, benefiting those in the project
area who need blood products for medical treatment. Among those beneficiaries are
women delivering children since the greatest cause of maternal mortality and morbidity is
postpartum hemorrhage.

Effective dissemination of successful project strategies and practices was expected to
strengthen the capacity of the central government to oversee the prevention and control of
these diseases and to maintain MCH elsewhere, benefiting the whole country.

1.5 Original Components

The two primary Health IX components--MCH, and HIV/AIDS and STD--accessed a
total IDA credit of SDR 36.8 million (US$50 million) and an IBRD loan of US$10
million. The MCH component (IDA US$35 million) targeted 113 counties in Hunan,
Xinjiang, Hainan, Guizhou, and Jilin provinces/autonomous region. The HIV/AIDS and
STD component (IDA US$15 million and IBRD US$10 million) covered 35
prefectures/cities in 55 counties of Shanxi, Fujian, Guangxi, and Xinjiang
provinces/autonomous regions.             There is also a third component which is Project




3Prefectures in the project provinces of Fujian, Guangxi, and Xinjiang have many such migrants.


                                                    6

Coordination and Support (totally US$6 million, subtracted from the two primary
components)

Component 1 (MCH) consisted of six subcomponents:

  · 1A--Improved Quality of Basic Maternal Health and Child Development Care
      Services, including: (i) a basic mother and child health package; (ii) improved
      maternal care through systematic prenatal care, appropriate obstetric care, labor
      and delivery care, and effective management of high-risk pregnancies; (iii)
      integrated sick child care through effective management of childhood illness,
      malnutrition, and newborn care; and (iv) improved well-child and systematic
      newborn care through nutrition interventions and preventive care.

  · 1B--Improved Family and Community Participation and Health Education,
      including: (i) premarital counseling services; (ii) action-oriented health education
      materials for families; (iii) prevention and treatment of priority diseases; (iv)
      promotion and monitoring of nutrition; (v) parenting skills to foster children's
      psychosocial development; and (vi) design and production of child development
      and maternal health information, education, and communication materials.

  · 1C--Improved        Management       of   MCH       Services,   including Management
      Information Systems (MISs), involving: (i) improved planning and coordination
      of MCH services; (ii) improved quantity and quality of supervisory support
      between levels; (iii) improved function and use of MCH management information
      and surveillance systems; (iv) management training; and (v) operational research.

  · 1D--Improved Health Worker Training through a comprehensive program to
      support of the development of trainers and training materials.

  · 1E--Improved Access to MCH Care Services through development and
      implementation of a medical financial assistance (MFA) program, including an
      essential package of services and use of finance mechanisms.

Component 2 (HIV/AIDS and STD) consisted of four subcomponents:

  · 2A--Improved and Expanded Policy Development and Institutional Building,
      including: (i) raising awareness and commitment at all levels; (ii) strengthening
      multisectoral collaboration; (iii) building capacity of public and private sectors
      and nongovernmental institutions, (iv) integrating programs for HIV/AIDS and
      STDs and for other blood-borne infections into other health services; and (v)
      supporting policies on syndromic management.

  · 2B--Improved HIV/AIDS and STD Interventions and Support, including: (i)
      innovative and cost-effective programs to prevent and control these diseases; (ii)
      behavioral changes to reduce risks; (iii) improved STD management; (iv) condom
      social marketing; and (v) patient care and support.

  · 2C--Improved HIV/AIDS and STD Surveillance System, including: (i)
      development and expansion of a surveillance system to monitor epidemic and
      behavioral trends, influence policy, inform project design, and measure the impact
      of interventions.

                                              7

    · 2D--Improved Management of Blood Transfusion Services, including: (i)
        transition from a voluntary paid donor blood supply to a quality-assured program
        of voluntary unpaid blood donations; (ii) quality assurance for blood testing,
        processing, storage, and delivery; (iii) development, dissemination, and promotion
        of clinical guidelines for good transfusion practice by clinicians; (iv) training of
        blood-service and clinical staff; and (v) increased resources to support the
        voluntary blood donation program, so that these steps not only improve blood
        product safety to reduce BBIs but also increase supplies for critical blood
        transfusion for trauma, maternal hemorrhage, and other medical conditions.


Component 3 (Project Coordination and Support) was designed to support the national
level to develop and implement policy to do the following:

    · Support project planning, supervision, monitoring, and reporting
    · Facilitate and provide technical assistance to the provinces/autonomous regions
    · Conduct research, targeting MCH financing and service access for poor families
    · Extend practices to non-project areas
    · Support establishment of a National AIDS Reference Laboratory (NARL).

1.6 Revised Components

No formal revisions were made in project components, although as section 1.2 notes,
"blood transfusion management" in Component 2 effectively became a separate
component in the supervision arrangements. In addition, a new area of work supporting
greater NGO activities for the HIV/AIDS component was opened by funding from the
Australian Agency for International Development(AusAID) and the Japanese Social
Development Fund (JSDF), and was effectively managed as a distinct subcomponent.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

Additional financing from AusAID (AUD 2,000,000) from July 1, 2000­December 31,
2002, and JSDF (US$400,000) from July 1, 2000­April 30, 2002, supported NGO
capacity building for control and prevention of HIV/AIDS and STDs in all project
provinces/autonomous regions covered by Component 2. AusAID's funding also
supported related central and provincial technical assistance. JSDF support was bolstered
in June 2005 with a further US$660,000 for Xinjiang Province only.

Closing date extension

The project was extended to June 30, 2008, two years past the original closing date of
June 30, 2006, to sustain implementation momentum and meet project objectives more
fully.




                                              8

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

Project quality at entry was affected by several factors. Health IX had two distinct tracks,
supporting the longstanding MOH priority to improve maternal and child health while
also challenging the GOC to respond more comprehensively to the new challenge being
posed by HIV/AIDS and the recurrence of STDs. The complexities of managing what
amounted to two distinct projects rather than a single unified project were built into
Health IX from the outset.

As previously noted, the project drew on previous World Bank­funded experiences in
China. The MCH component not only transferred what was learned in Health VI to new
beneficiaries, it built on previous experience by introducing innovative elements new
to China, particularly in relation to early childhood development. This was even more
apparent in the HIV/AIDS and STD component of the project. While Health VII (health
promotion) provided an excellent basis for Health IX project preparation and design,
many internationally accepted policy concepts had to be incorporated that were not well
understood in China, such as harm minimization from the outset. Even though it
represented a significant scaling up of work begun in Health VII, becoming the first
comprehensive and then-largest donor-supported HIV project in China, the project
design remained sufficiently broad and flexible to allow for project evolution as
prevailing attitudes adapted to the changing nature of the emerging HIV/AIDS
epidemic. Over time, the Chinese government, health system, and society adopted new
concepts and practices as they saw the need and became ready to implement them.

The project was built on the foundations of a well-established and trusted
relationship between the MOH and its partners. This facilitated negotiations to tackle
elements of HIV/AIDS prevention and control that could be perceived as riskier for the
Chinese government. Project preparation and appraisal by the World Bank was led and
assisted by a senior project officer, supported by a Bank sector specialist and by other
technical specialists who were familiar with global developments as well as health sector
realities in China (UNAIDS, the World Health Organization, and Family Health
International (FHI) provided technical assistance). Similarly, technical input for the MCH
component reflected the perspectives of professionals with extensive project experience
in China. This team expertise was a positive factor in project preparation, design, and
quality at entry.

2.2 Implementation

A number of factors influenced the course of project implementation. They are discussed
below in terms of: (a) those outside the government's control; (b) those subject to
government control; and (c) those subject to implementation agency control.




                                             9

Factors outside government control

The impact of SARS in 2003 and Avian Flu in 2004 hindered project supervision and
caused some implementation delays due to travel restriction and redeployment of project
staff to meet the new emergencies. However, these outbreaks also provided impetus for
renewed government commitment to public health investment.

The historical, cultural, and policy environment was both inhibiting and enabling.
General attitudes toward high-risk groups for HIV/AIDS may have inhibited health
workers' capacity to design and implement outreach interventions targeted at IDUs,
CSWs, and MSM based on principles of harm minimization and human rights.
Underdevelopment of civil society also meant there were few NGOs ready to enter into a
partnership with government in HIV/AIDS prevention and control. As a result, extensive
training was required and program activities were slow to start. However, the policy
environment changed in 2002, signaling to health organizations and the public alike that a
different approach was both accepted and required. By contrast, the predispositions of
Chinese health workers meant that project activities that were more technical (for
example, blood management) were accepted more easily than less technical ones such as
HIV prevention outreach.

At the operational level, the most significant external factor that affected project
implementation was the frequent change of the Bank's task team leader (TTL). The
first and the last TTLs were seen by the GOC as longstanding. In the critical period
following the midterm review, however, the supervision missions had three different
TTLs. Chinese project managers believed this contributed to delays, just as their work
was gaining momentum and direction, because of the need to bring new Bank personnel
up to speed and to adjust to the work styles of the new task team leader.

Factors subject to government control

During the project, significant economic growth occurred, which helped raise household
income and improve infrastructure for communities. Both would have contributed to
better maternal and child health. On the other hand, economic growth in the coastal areas
constituted a pull factor for rural migration, creating new vulnerability to HIV/AIDS and
STD for migrant workers.

During this period, there were also significant changes by the GOC in the broader
health financing environment that influenced Health IX project effectiveness. MCH
was impacted by the new Reduction and Elimination (R&E) program, HIV was impacted
by the new Statute on HIV Prevention and Control, and blood management was impacted
by the new National Debt Program. Most significantly for MCH in poor areas, the
Medical Assistance (MA) scheme and New Cooperative Medical Service (NCMS) were
introduced circa the midterm review.

Beyond these national program developments, the GOC received a significant growth in
international donor assistance for HIV/AIDS prevention and control. The U.K.
Department for International Development (DFID) has had a significant presence with
initial projects in Sichuan and Yunnan, and the subsequent CHARTS project that focused

                                             10

on policy capacity development at the provincial level. The Global Fund for AIDS,
Tuberculosis, and Malaria (GFATM) has supported significant scaling up of HIV/AIDS
intervention programs across China, in line with new national policy directions. The U.S.
Center for Disease Control (CDC), the Clinton Foundation, and AusAID have all had
significant projects--with the latter's project in Xinjiang overlapping, though coordinated
with Health IX.

Government restructuring also affected the context and operations of Health IX.
Organizational changes within MOH (Basic Health Services was separated from the
Medical Administration Department and combined with the MCH Department to form a
new department) negatively affected MCH implementation and outcomes for the project
in 1998. The development of urban community health services was announced as a new
policy priority in 2000. Then with the advent of the NCMS policy initiative in 2003,
Basic Health Services was again removed from the combined department to form a new
Rural Health Department, leaving MCH with Community Health Services. This central-
level reorganization has affected staff continuity and turnover of both the central and
provincial MCH services, and financial support by counties. For example, central level
restructuring was replicated at provincial level in Xinjiang, resulting in staff turnover and
interruptions in attention to and the momentum of Health IX implementation.

Slow mobilization of counterpart funds at the provincial and county levels also
negatively affected implementation of both primary project components. The high level
of turnover at the provincial level aggravated discontinuities that may have contributed to
the lack of knowledge about counterpart funding and led to the periodic loss of local
government support for the project. Preparation of the Medical Financial Assistance
(MFA) plan, and financing it, contributed to the slow start of the MCH component in
particular. The burden for local government in reconciling fiscal decentralization with the
on-lending arrangements for World Bank loans can be acute. The poorest counties, which
had the greatest need and the least understanding of potential project benefits, found it
particularly difficult to mobilize counterpart funds.

Factors subject to implementation agency control

Transfer of knowledge and materials was good. The continuity of national experts
from Health VI to the MCH component of Health IX eliminated the need to devise
pertinent training materials. Similarly, experts involved in HIV/AIDS work under Health
VII were able to transfer their knowledge and experience. MOH technical guidance
continuity was also an important enabler for blood management.

Project management by the Foreign Loan Office (FLO) was strong. Experienced
FLO project managers provided support for lower administrative levels to establish
project management systems and undertake advocacy with local government. The FLO
also successfully mobilized 52 NGO-led interventions for HIV/STD, furthering
implementation of the HIV/AIDS component. The continuity provided by a project
manager who had responsibility for all components during the final years of the project
was important for meeting project objectives.


                                             11

The above successes were achieved despite considerable financing and management
barriers. Lack of a central funding provision for the MCH component meant that
resources had to be clawed back from the provinces/autonomous regions for national
level input. Procurement delays, primarily attributable to Chinese procedures but also to
the World Bank, hindered implementation as well. Leadership changes in the project
leading group at the provincial and county level impacted implementation for both
components. In particular, this may have exacerbated the slow start in carrying out the
HIV/AIDS and STD component by creating confusion about where to begin, what to do,
and how to handle new concepts.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

Several failures in design of monitoring and evaluation of project activities are to be
noted. First, there was a lack of early monitoring and evaluation. Despite
denomination of key performance indicators in the PAD, cursory attention was devoted at
the outset to how project effectiveness was to be assessed. A comprehensive framework
for monitoring and evaluation was not set up properly until after several supervisory
visits and aide memoire recommendations.

Early MCH data collection did not reflect relevant KPIs. Key performance indicators
were not part of the routine administrative data collection for the MCH component, so the
key staffs were unfamiliar with the system for project and financial data collection. Good
data collection producing realistic indicators of implementation results did not occur until
midway to late in the project. A baseline survey was undertaken, but was not repeated at
the end of the project on the recommendation of the World Bank (alternative data sources
were available to assess trends in key indicators; the limited funding available for
evaluation were used to support case studies and focused evaluations of specific
interventions).

The design of surveillance systems for HIV/STD was inadequate. Surveillance
systems for HIV/AIDS were poorly designed to capture the local dynamics of the
epidemic and did not coordinate effectively with systems for STD surveillance. Most
importantly, all the data collected have not been analyzed and the findings from
surveillance have not been sufficiently used for guiding the future interventions among
the local high risk groups. Moreover, under-reporting of STIs is significant and prevalent.

There were also several shortcomings in implementation. First, lower-level MCH data
collection was inadequate. For the MCH component, data collection was less
satisfactory at the more grassroots (township and village) than the central level, as
expected. Although documentation and data collection at the central level were higher in
quality, project development outcomes can not be adequately measured unless adequate
records have been kept at the lower levels. Project managers and experts believe that
lower-level MCH data prior to 2004 was largely unreliable and was generated only to
satisfy the interest of leaders then in charge (this was a country-wide issue at that point,
and hence not project-specific). This was not just a issue for data collection of Health IX
project, it was the case for the country by then. Since 2004, data quality has improved as
a result of supervisory missions and aide memoires.

                                             12

There was also under-expenditure in operational research (OR). Although OR
activities for the MCH component were meant to occur at the provincial level, funding
was allocated to counties, probably through poor understanding of the design and the
intent. As counties felt incapable of undertaking OR or were unable to identify
appropriate expertise elsewhere, under-expenditure for this activity prevailed. OR was
particularly neglected in Xinjiang owing to high staff turnover at the county and
provincial levels, and loan processing became the predominant focus.

For the HIV/STD component, new sentinel surveillance sites were slow to be set up,4
mainly due to sluggish procurement. Even as late as October 2002 for example, Xinjiang
had no new sites. Although installation progressed rapidly in later years, it is possible that
the real infection rates for STDs, and to a lesser extent for HIV/AIDS, remained above
the reported rates at project completion. The quality of data analysis was limited by the
capability of county-level users accessing provincial data.

This pointed to problems in utilization of corrective feedback. For both components
throughout the project period, experience reflected in aide memoires and observations
from supervisory team technical experts suggested the lack of an "information
culture," such that data might be collected but sometimes go unused. Surveillance results
generally were not applied well to formulating plans for prevention, intervention, or
strategic direction. For the HIV/AIDS and STD component, links between surveillance
data and local interventions were weak particularly at the lower levels.

This was offset to some extent, however, by encouragement from supervisory missions,
which increased utilization. Partly this was the result of missions encouraging the
regular reporting of indicators. The national experts and FLO personnel involved in
supervision all played an important M&E role, and their semiannual field visits possibly
constituted the most important vehicle for assessing project progress.

The Midterm Reviews (MTRs) were timely, but follow-up was a missed opportunity.
Although the MTRs were completed on schedule, the requested amendments were not
complete until 2005 duo to the delay of approval at the central level, which was too late
in the project to carry out much of the recommended changes.

However, the Final Evaluation reports were thorough for both components, providing
a comprehensive assessment of project impact. In addition to the overview reports,
several special studies were also undertaken, including

    · An "Implementation and Effect Evaluation of Early Child Development," which
         looked at 38 villages of 4 project and 2 control counties of Jilin Province and
         Xinjiang Autonomous Region.


4Sentinel surveillance refers to the monitoring of a specific disease (or set of related diseases). The sites of
sentinel surveillance should be concentrated in geographical locations known to contain high-risk groups
consistent with the disease transmission risks.


                                                     13

    · "The Report on Effect Evaluation of Health Education" surveyed Hunan, Guizhou,
       and Hainan provinces from June to July of 2007.

    · An "Assessment on Medical Financial Assistance for Women and Children in
       Poverty Households," which was completed by the MFA Assessment Group for
       MCH of the Health IX Project after mail surveying 34 counties selected from all
       project provinces/autonomous regions and conducting on-the-spot survey samples
       in 7 project and 5 non-project counties.

Comparing these solid evaluation efforts, of which outcome results are summarized in
section 3, with the previously noted poor use of monitoring data suggests that a cultural
divide separates Chinese health researchers and managers. Thus, the results of these
specific evaluations are at risk of not being transferred widely or utilized well in the
health system.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Compliance with critical legal covenants was met for both project components. Albeit
with some delays, the midterm report was completed; and leading groups, expert panels,
and project offices were maintained. All counties developed medical financial assistance
programs and submitted annual intervention plans for HIV/AIDS and STD prevention
and control, and the National AIDS Reference Laboratory annual plan was submitted.

The project had limited environmental impact since the volume of hazardous medical
waste in small health facilities is low. Although HIV/STD interventions increase the need
to dispose of condoms and their packaging, the environmental impact is also small and
can be handled through the general urban waste management system.

The project integrated social assessment, stakeholder consultation, and a focus on the
needs of national minorities. In particular, MMR and IMR were improved in Guizhou
province and Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (with considerable minority residents)
in the MCH component, while NGO involvement in HIV/AIDS prevention and control
incorporated the concerns and participation of vulnerable populations.

Civil works were limited in the project, and no issues involved land acquisition and
resettlement.

Auditing requirements were met through provision of annual reports. Adequate
accounts were maintained and no major problems were identified with project resource
use.

Procurement

The Health IX civil works procurement standard was based on the requirements used for
Health VIII. The civil works evaluation report indicates minimal problems involving
integration of documents, and contracts not being adjusted according to changes and
according to the standard menu and bidding time. Significant delays occurred in


                                             14

equipment procurement by International Competitive Bidding (ICB), partly because of
complex procedural requirements by the Chinese government. Start-up of the National
Debt Program also meant that much of the equipment requirements for the blood safety
management component were picked up through the Chinese government program
instead of being financed through the project. Overall, civil works and goods
procurement have been carried out without any notable problems by the FLO.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

During the latter part of the Health IX project implementation, the World Bank initiated a
program of analytic work focused on rural health system challenges and reform. This also
became the focus of a new operation.

World Bank follow-up

The focus on health system issues is in part a reflection of the World Bank's new Health,
Nutrition and Population Strategy, but also of growing recognition on both the Bank and
government side that sustained improvements in access to health services, efficiency, and
quality will depend on systematic health system reforms. This process has to some extent
started with the establishment of the New Cooperative Medical Scheme, the Medical
Assistance Scheme, reforms of public health institutions, etc. However, there is a need to
ensure effective implementation of these reforms, and adjust design and implementation
based on evidence and lessons. This need underpins a new operation focused on
strengthening the implementation of rural health system reforms in selected counties. A
new rural health project (Health XI), covering 8 provinces and 40 counties, has become
effective at the end of December of 2008. This operation will maintain a focus on
improving access to and quality of key health services, including maternal and child
health, but will engage on higher level system issues than was the case in Health IX.

While HIV/AIDS and STDs remain a significant concern, recent years have seen
increased support from both government and other development partners. At the same
time, non-communicable disease (NCD) has emerged as a growing threat. Hence, while it
is expected that the World Bank will maintain an involvement on HIV/AIDS issues, it is
expected that the program will become increasingly focused on NCDs.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

Health IX had two distinct sets of objectives. Improving maternal health and child
development is consistent with the Bank's CAS/CPS goal of targeted intervention in poor
areas, as well as with the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Improved prevention
and control of HIV/AIDS and STDs is also in line with both the overall Country
Partnership Strategy as well as the MDGs. Both sets remain relevant to China's ongoing
health challenges.



                                            15

Many stakeholders within China note that World Bank­supported projects there,
including Health IX, initially seem ahead of their time. They get off to ragged starts and
only begin to function smoothly after beginning to break down barriers and change the
policy environment. This usually takes about three years, after which they become
models for implementing the new government policy. The projects may then vanish from
sight as other entities take up the challenge, but without that initial practical engagement
to prove the concept, the enabling policy shift would have been less likely to occur. Thus
the Health IX component on HIV/AIDS and STD was the first large-scale donor project
to target these issues in China and met stiff attitudinal barriers on entry. Looking back,
Chinese stakeholders recognize the project's contributions to changing perceptions and
introducing new practices, even though it took about three years for the policy
environment to become hospitable. The same dynamic occurred with the effort to ensure
blood supply safety. Once the concepts were proved, both of these trailblazing efforts
receded into the background as national or other donor initiatives entered the field. In the
case of MCH, the specific objectives were initially challenging, but highly relevant given
the MCH challenges in the country.

Project design was comprehensive and systematic, while providing flexibility for local
adaptation. The project's structure and implementation design was oriented more to the
grassroots level than to directly addressing higher-level policy and institutional change.
Lessons were learned that had important policy implications. However, the project relied
on project managers on the government and Bank side to effectively work with the
relevant ministries and agencies to address higher level policy and institutional issues,
and this engagement did not materialize. Over time, the policy environment changed
dramatically. A redesign could have helped plug the project into informing higher-level
policy dialogue with relevant feedback, but this was difficult to achieve given the
complexity of the project, the turnover of project managers on the Bank side, and the
limited engagement by the Bank on policy issues during the critical period of the project.

Implementation through regular channels for government and health service delivery
were consistent with previous Bank-supported projects in China. This approach directs
capacity building toward personnel and institutions that remain on the ground after the
project is completed, enhancing the likelihood of project sustainability. Challenges to this
strategy are posed by personnel shifts, particularly at the leadership level, and by changes
in the machinery of government. Health IX witnessed both the advantages and
disadvantages of this approach.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

PDOs are discussed below by project component (for a tabulated and more thorough set
of results see Annex 2, which shows outputs by component).




                                             16

Component 1: Reduce maternal and child mortality and morbidity and improve child
survival and development in the poorest areas of five provinces of China.

MCH indicators improved between 1997 and 2007. The Final Project Summary Report
showed that MMR decreased in the project areas from 159.3 per 100,000 live births to
45.1 per 100,000; U5 mortality from 80.7 per 1,000 live births to 15.8 per 1,000; IMR
from 67.9 per 1,000 to 12.5 per 1,000; the neonatal mortality rate (NMR) from 39.8 per
1,000 to 8.2 per 1,000; and U5 moderate and severe malnutrition from 5.7 percent to 1.6
percent.

Relative to 1997 baseline levels for MMR, U5 infant and neonatal mortality had already
dropped significantly by 2000. However, project managers and experts query the
accuracy of earlier figures, and whether under-reporting occurred prior to 2002.

Gains in indicators of MCH services as a proxy for "increased level of maternal care,"
"better sick-child management," and "better well-child and systemic newborn care" were
not as remarkable, but notable improvement was shown. The antenatal care rate increased
from 63.6 percent in 2000 to 75.8 percent in 2007; the postnatal visit rate changed in
Xinjiang Autonomous Region from 61.6 percent in 2000 to 83.6 percent in 2007 (the
other four project provinces remained mostly stable); and the hospital delivery rate rose
from 53 percent in 2000 to 86.2 percent, an increase of above 30 percent that satisfies the
20­50 percent expansion explicitly called for as a project objective. Child nutrition
surveillance increased by 11 percent and the exclusive breast-feeding rate was kept above
70 percent.

As for the key performance indicator of "better family and community participation,
education, and counseling," all levels of project implementation strengthened their health
information outreach; and heightened awareness of self-care and increased use of health
services among the target population was reflected in the KPI for "improved access to
MCH care services, especially among the poor." A survey in Hunan, Guizhou, and
Hainan provinces in the summer of 2007 found changes in knowledge, beliefs, and
behaviors as well as increased service demand from the target population. The Early
Childhood Development component produced positive outcomes, including better
knowledge and healthier nurturing behaviors of mothers, that helped reinforce the "better
sick-child management" KPI and created a better environment for ECD. Consistent with
the KPI for "increased health worker training," short- and long-term instruction and
overseas study tours were carried out per project objectives. Findings showed increased
capacity for project managers, project officials, and MCH workers.

Although these changes were significant, how much were they directly attributable to
project activities given the multiplicity of factors that influence MCH? The special
evaluation studies offer insight. The Final Evaluation Report of the Health IX Project's
MCH Component compared project to matched non-project areas, and found little
difference in the decrease in MMR. This may be attributed to introduction of the new
national Reduction & Elimination program for MCH as well as the impact of continued
human and economic development in China, all of which impacted both project and non-


                                            17

project areas. Indeed, those areas that carried out the R&E program alone (non-Health IX
areas) did not show a marked difference in MMR decrease. Comparing non-project areas
to those carrying out both R&E and the Health IX project, however, shows significant
decreases in MMR in the latter, suggesting that a combination of both is needed for
optimum outcomes. Decreased MMR is related to improved hospital delivery rates and
prenatal and postnatal care. In the project areas, hospital delivery rates improved in
Health IX counties just as markedly as in R&E and combined R&E and Health IX areas.
Delivery rates in matched nonproject areas also improved, but at a 25 percent slower rate.

U5 severe malnutrition, although slightly down overall, varied across provinces and
actually increased for Xinjiang Province.

Component 2: Prevent and control morbidity and mortality due to the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and
sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) by implementing comprehensive programs at the
provincial levels, and by building technical capacity at the central level.

The final evaluation report "Health IX HIV/STD Prevention and Control Subproject"
showed a more complex picture of morbidity rates than anticipated. This is partly because
of the complexity of monitoring disease incidence and prevalence, and the fact that the
project was a set of specific targeted interventions into a rapidly changing social
environment.

Since reporting and surveillance was under-developed for both HIV and STDs at the
beginning of the project, difficulties were built in to claiming project reductions in "HIV
seroprevalence" and "STD prevalence." Indeed, the dynamics are such that an initial
jump was to be expected in newly reported cases. Increasing prevalence also was likely
even with successful prevention activities since advances in HIV care make the disease
more chronic rather than fatal. As expected, the percentages of increase rose in newly
reported cases (incidence) and total reported cases (prevalence) of HIV in project
provinces. According to "Health IX HIV/STD Prevention and Control Subproject," HIV
prevalence increased at a slower rate for project than for nonproject areas, particularly
after 2004 when nonproject areas saw a spike. Similarly, incidence increased more slowly
in project than nonproject areas. On the other hand, control counties started with a much
lower baseline (only four cases compared to 1,897). Nonetheless, the results indicate that
the Health IX provinces made gains toward project objectives when compared to
nonproject areas.

HIV prevalence for high-risk groups in project areas, including intravenous drug users
and commercial sex workers, initially increased between 1999 and 2001 before
decreasing between 2002 and 2006. However, HIV infection rates varied considerably
between high-risk groups, indicating the difficulty of judging trends when significant
changes in HIV incidence and prevalence in high-risk groups occur.

The final evaluation showed the STD case totals reported in project counties were not
very different compared to control counties. When analyzed by disease type however,


                                             18

reported STD cases for project counties increased remarkably between 1999 and 2001
compared to control counties, which may be attributable to more attentive
reporting/hospitalization/diagnosis rather than an outright increase in STDs. Between
2001 and 2004, gonorrhea, syphilis, condyloma accuminatum, and other STDs showed a
decreasing trend (dropping 40.4 percent, 74.3 percent, 64.6 percent, and 81.9 percent,
respectively). The number of Nongonococcal Urethritis (NGU) continued to rise
significantly, however. From these figures it may be deduced that the number of
infections for all STDs except NGU are falling, while the latter is still subject to
improved services that reflect increased reporting. Indeed, nongonorrhea started to
decline during 2004­06, joining the trend line of the other STDs. Control counties tended
to show slow but steadily rising rates, indicating that their reporting mechanisms and
quality of treatment remained poor.

Unfortunately, after 2006 the percentage of reported cases for all STDs, except for
gonorrhea, increased again. Several factors may be at work. First, by the concluding stage
of the project, the funding for scheduled STD interventions was mostly exhausted, and
other control and prevention measures decreased. However, this also coincides with the
time when the morbidity rate of STDs in comparison counties rose the fastest; this may
have resulted from accelerated STD infection rates in the comparison counties or from
significant improvement of those counties' medical service quality. The percent of
reported syphilis during this period increased in both the project and comparison counties
under investigation, implying that the infection rate of syphilis is rising, case reporting
has improved, or diagnostic capacity has increased.

STD prevalence in specific vulnerable groups was not incorporated in the design of
Health IX. A point prevalence survey was conducted in 2007, however, for the final
evaluation, which showed that project areas had a statistically lower point prevalence
(15.4 percent) of all STDs than did comparison areas (25 percent).

Three rounds of behavioral surveillance data were conducted, showing statistically
significant improvements in reduction of risky and adoption of safer behaviors by CSWs,
IDUs, and young students (except for condom use by young students in most recent sex,
for which there was no change). These improvements suggest progress on KPIs
concerning "increased policy environment supportive of HIV prevention and care" and
"improved HIV/STD interventions and support." They also suggest that project focus on
specific groups at risk was successfully achieved.

Component 3: Reduce the transmission of blood-borne infections by assuring a safe
and adequate blood supply with improved transfusion practices.

Blood management objectives were reached readily. Voluntary blood contribution
increased from 5 percent to over 96 percent; planned donation5 decreased from 81.2


5It is a form of unpaid blood donation organized by any working units that are assigned with quota for blood donation. Incentives
such as vacations, etc are provided to the donors by their employers. Such a practice of blood donation was prevalent in 1990s, and
has been gradually replaced by unpaid voluntary blood donation.



                                                                 19

percent to less than 5.2 percent; clinical component blood transfusion increased from 16.5
percent to over 91.7 percent; and HIV, syphilis, Hepatitis B Virus (HBV), Hepatitis C
Virus (HCV), and Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT) positive rates were consistently
detected and small. Provinces continually recruited and retained voluntary unpaid blood
donors (VUBD), and promoted rational clinical use of blood. Blood laws were legislated
and implemented. No shortfalls in meeting requests for blood have been reported. All
project provinces except Guangxi achieved 100 percent VUBD. Shanxi now has one of
the best blood safety programs in the country, with very high rates of 400 milliliter
donations, repeated donations, and donations from the rural population. There were no
reports of HIV, Hepatitis B, or Hepatitis C transmission through transfusion in any
project county.

3.3 Efficiency

The economic rationale of the project is premised on gains life years. These gains were
expected to result from a range of channels, including: (i) improved and expanded policy
environment and multi-sectoral cooperation; (ii) improved management and quality of
MCH services and blood transfusion services; (iii) improved family and community
participation in health education; and (iv) improved interventions and support on
HIV/AIDS/STDS and etc. China has seen significant reductions in maternal and child
mortality, as well as improvements in disease control, over the life of the project. The
project evaluation indicates that progress has been greater in the project areas compared
to purposively selected comparator counties, suggesting a positive impact of the project.
Of course, given the complex and rapid changes in the policy and institutional context
over the last decade, these conclusions can only be considered tentative. Moreover,
insofar as the project has achieved the expected "spill-over effects" on non-project areas
through policy changes, institutional reforms, expansion of innovative interventions, and
capacity strengthening, a comparison of project and non-project areas would under-
estimate the project impacts.

Given the inherent difficulties in assessing the project impacts, it is also difficult to assess
whether the costs involved in achieving the project outcomes are reasonable. However,
there are good reasons to believe that the project has impacted on mortality rates,
coverage of cost-effective HIV/AIDS prevention and control interventions, and
improvements in blood safety in the project areas, and that the project has contributed to
policy reform and capacity strengthening more broadly, in particular in the area of
HIV/AIDS prevention and blood management. Of course, inefficiencies in China's health
system, arising from the fragmentation of public health responsibilities, lack of clarity
about roles and responsibilities across government, and adverse incentives, have also
undermined the efficiency of project support. Some of these inefficiencies could
potentially have been avoided if the project had engaged more effectively on health
system issues at provincial and national level.




                                             20

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

China has seen significant improvements in MCH, HIV/AIDS and STD prevention and
control, and blood management over the life of the project. These improvements are of
course not confined to the project areas, and can clearly not be fully attributed to the
project. However, the project evaluations provide some evidence that the project areas
have done better than relevant comparator areas. More importantly, there is evidence to
suggest that the project has had broader impacts on policy thinking, capacity and attitudes
of government officials, and the coverage of key interventions, and that it has helped
local levels to accelerate their response to changes in official government policy on the
issues covered by the project.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project was socially inclusive of poor women and children in the MCH component
and of high-risk groups--including IDUs, CSW, and MSM--in the HIV/AIDS and STD
component. To meet CAS objectives for reducing inequalities, project provinces were
chosen based on relative economic disadvantage. There were no gender specific analyses
of HIV/STD incidence or prevalence.

For the MCH component, even though the target groups were the poorest counties of five
relatively poor provinces, the MFA was unsatisfactory at first, only reaching a small
percentage of those targeted (largely due to lack of counterpart funding) until the overall
policy environment shifted, that is, until NCMS, R&E, and other government medical
financing schemes were introduced.

Over time, the HIV/STD component contributed to a change in attitudes among
government agencies and service providers, and pilot programs targeted towards
vulnerable groups (CSW, IDU, and MSM) were implemented. The participation of NGOs
in the program contributed to increased awareness and acceptance of the needs of these
vulnerable groups.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project helped strengthen local infrastructure and capacity for both of its major
operational components.

For MCH, it successfully increased budget allocations for basic preventive health
services. An improved training program for health workers and better management
practices for the system of maternal and neonatal care also were introduced.
Consolidation of MCH outcomes is likely to need ongoing policy and training support,

                                            21

especially for the poorest areas, since local government financial support capacity
remains limited.

The HIV/AIDS component strengthened central and provincial government capacity, not
so much to plan and implement effective disease prevention and control programs as to
take on new challenges once considered too sensitive to confront. Many local policies
were developed for HIV/AIDS, and in some project jurisdictions a framework for
multisectoral coordination became well established. Midway through the project, as
previously noted in section 3.1, significant shifts occurred in the policy environment that
provided opportunities to help test new models, such as piloting methadone maintenance
therapy. Beyond these attitudinal shifts, infrastructure also improved. The national
HIV/AIDS laboratory developed more effective techniques and procedures to improve
HIV testing accuracy and trained provincial and local personnel to use them. Much of the
sentinel surveillance network in the four project provinces was supported by Health IX.
Additionally, Health IX pioneered new intervention models that are now deployed in
other projects, although recognition of the contribution seems confined to those who have
been involved since the outset in combating HIV/AIDS in China.

Broader participation was encouraged both externally among organizations and internally
through operational development. NGOs were instrumental in engaging high-risk groups,
contributing to the shift in the policy environment noted above. The social mobilization
role of NGOs became incorporated conceptually into government policy, and the
definition and effectiveness of that role has also expanded. At first, only the major
government-organized NGOs were involved, which were initially judged by national
experts to be poorly informed with highly prejudicial notions about HIV/AIDS. The
AusAID co-financed training, however, helped open minds and develop capacity for
proposal writing and better interventions; other forms of community-based groups (such
as MSM peers, ex-CSWs, PLWHA, and so on) increasingly have become involved.
These organizations are now active participants at all levels in the HIV/AIDS prevention
and control effort. Both the MCH and HIV/AIDS components introduced participatory
methodology for devising health education materials, outreach counseling, and
communication strategies, which strengthened their program development and targeting.

The blood safety component supported and accelerated implementation of new national
policies to improve the collection, quality, and use of blood products and strengthened
provincial and local efforts to rationalize use of blood products in medical care. Project
participants credit Health IX with helping them implement government policy on VUBD
and introduce quality-control systems. They have been surprised at how invaluable these
"soft" activities have proven to be. Health IX's policy alignment was an important part of
their being able to quickly and successfully complete the project.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Project participants consistently identified mindset changes and better management skills
as outcome benefits. The shift in attitudes toward HIV/AIDS and blood donation
practices has been noted already. An interesting but less noticed shift occurred in the
MCH component, involving perceptions about the structure of care rather than those who

                                             22

were its objects. Community leaders and families, who initially saw childbirth as a highly
individual matter, reported appreciating the focus on access and equity, and overcoming
initial doubts about government involvement in MCH.

The project missed some policy opportunities for greater impact. More influence could
have been exerted during establishment of the HIV/AIDS coordination office under State
Council (SWACO), the MA and NCMS, and the Reduction and Elimination Program to
strengthen both design and implementation arrangements. The lost opportunities were
particularly noticeable in relation to the MA and NCMS, when counterpart funding for
Health IX's MFA ran out and the new schemes essentially replaced the project in
providing financial assistance to a significant part of its target population.

There was also a lack of advocacy for action to fill policy vacuums. For instance, national
policy to combat sexually transmitted diseases lacked focus, with steps needed to clarify
funding requirements for STD clinics and assure that accredited doctors see patients. To
some extent, the project was constrained from addressing such issues by fragmentation of
responsibilities within MOH.

Overall, the lower levels of project participants felt most strongly the benefits from
improved practices, particularly in applying lessons learned to other areas of work. At the
provincial level, there were variable levels of policy engagement and some aspects of
operational management were of concern. At the national policy and overall project
management level, there was sometimes a lack of policy engagement, resulting in missed
opportunities.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to Low

While the exact degree of sustainability will vary by provinces, the substantial changes
that have occurred in the overall policy and health financing environment suggest that
positive outcomes generally will not be rolled back.

The accomplishments of the MCH component are supported by substantial government
commitment through the R&E program. Health IX provided vital bridge support for
MCH work during a difficult period of government underfunding, and the recent
incorporation of MCH as part of a primary care package will contribute to its
sustainability. The goal of Health IX's MFA is now assured, not as originally planned by
the project, but through the national policy that created the new MA scheme,
supplementing the NCMS. The NCMS is very important for MCH components such as
hospital delivery that have been included in the benefit package in many parts of the
country. It should be noted, however, that the poorest counties may be unable to sustain
government support for some project activities, particularly the MIS, training, and
supervision.




                                             23

Sustainability of the HIV/AIDS component is generally not a problem given the myriad
new projects being implemented with both government and donor funds (including the
GFATM and philanthropies such as the Gates Foundation). Indeed national and
international stakeholders are warning that an overabundance of HIV/AIDS projects
poses the challenge of acquiring the human resources to use the funding well and
implementing activities through a sectorwide approach--that is, avoiding wasteful
duplication and covering all areas of need by working out how to scale up appropriately,
in a coordinated way. The activity whose sustainability seemed in greatest doubt was
behavioral surveillance; but its incorporation into a system of integrated surveillance,
partly through voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) sites, makes its continuance more
likely. The other area of potential concern involves hard-to-reach locales. For example,
the WB and AusAID both finished their projects in Xinjiang Autonomous Region at the
same time, and the remaining project run by the GFTAM is small, focused on IDUs, and
operates only in the region's southeast, leaving many areas and high-risk groups
uncovered.     For   the  time   being,    ongoing  engagement     is   needed   by    the
provinces/autonomous regions with donor organizations to cope with gaps in the
changing policy environment.

AusAID and JSDF funding contributed greatly to piloting of support to NGOs to deliver
programs to high-risk groups. Most of these programs were small-scale, so possible
service gaps from closure of Health IX may not seem sizable. However, the innovation
these efforts represent is valuable, and insofar as Health IX contributed to greatly
enhanced NGO capacity to seek funding, implement programs, and account for their
activities, skills have been acquired that improve NGO access to support from other
donors.

Sustainability is also not an issue for the blood management component. Health IX's
primary contribution was in training since much of the equipment support came from the
National Debt Program. Blood management has been established in the government
budget system so its access to financing is assured. Health IX's true legacy involves the
rapid shift from a system of mandated and paid blood donations to one of voluntary
unpaid blood donation. A fundamental shift in community attitudes and behavior
occurred, as seen in the outpouring of donors following the 2008 earthquake (shortly
prior to Health IX closing).

Unfortunately, current health financing arrangements make continuity of the STD
component problematic with. Indeed, component implementation during the project was
hindered substantially by that financial framework, which considers testing and treatment
a personal rather than a public health service. Since STD clinics are hospital-based and
have to find their own revenue, they have little incentive for investing in prevention and
education, or for training private doctors who, after all, are competitors in the
marketplace. Limited progress in training private physicians is a barrier to harnessing
their skill and knowledge for sustainability and most importantly to scaling up.
Government funding and a different policy framework, informed by public health
principles, are needed, but policy advocacy was neither part of the project design nor
apparently undertaken during implementation. STD management unfortunately became
the project's poor cousin.

                                            24

Notwithstanding recent economic turmoil, the long term economic and fiscal outlook is
good. The Chinese health policy environment remains dynamic, with increased openness
and growing commitment to reducing inequalities.

Yet substantial challenges remain. Investment in public health infrastructure post-SARS
has focused on hardware rather than systematic institutional reform. The substantial flow
of donor support for HIV/AIDS acts as a magnet for health workers to the field, but the
absorptive capacity may have reached its limits. A more sector-wide and flexible
approach is needed. Recent GOC announcements about health sector reform may
improve health care access further through reduction of currently substantial out-of-
pocket payments, but important issues regarding overall health system architecture
remain.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

Impetus for the project came from several other successful projects. While the GOC
proposed the focus on MCH, it was the Bank that advocated for a comprehensive, multi-
sectoral component to address HIV/AIDS and STDs. Project preparation involved
prominent international experts, including UNAIDS and lead specialists within the Bank,
and was informed by the experiences and designs of Health VI and Health VII (Health
Promotion). The design was sufficiently flexible for adaptation in different locations and
for other changes as needed during implementation. The project was particularly
welcomed by the small core of emerging HIV specialists in China.

The choice of provinces for the HIV component was careful: Xinjiang and Guangxi were
ranked second and third in HIV prevalence; Fujian had a coastal port with migrant
workers; and Shanxi was midranked in economic development with many mines and a
history of unsafe blood donations and transfusions in its southern part. Choices for the
MCH component were based on covering poor provinces not in Health VI.

The project drew on the national experts of Health VI and, to a lesser extent, Health VII.
The project preparation process also provided for capacity-building experiences such as
overseas study tours for provincial leaders on HIV/AIDS. An experienced FLO project
manager coordinated preparation within China, building on his established relationship
with the Bank Task Team Leader at the time.

Despite these solid pillars to build on from the preparation process, project
implementation got off to a shaky start, suffering delays and slow disbursement. The
counterpart financing expectations and the procurement procedures related to

                                           25

International Competitive Bidding contributed to the slow pace, as did some skepticism,
if not resistance, to new concepts. Delayed approval by NDRC of the revised
procurement plan, and the inflow of new development assistance to some of the project
provinces, were also important constraints. Finally, a lack of training in project
management seems to have contributed to slowdowns (which is exacerbated by
difficulties with counterpart funding).

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: For the Blood management component the rating is Highly Satisfactory. For
the remaining components the rating is moderately Satisfactory.

Supervision missions were carried out consistently, apart from the disruption from SARS
in 2003. Supervision during the initial years was characterized by continuity of personnel
from the design period, including for technical expertise. From the Midterm Review
onward that changed. The Bank supervision team was significantly smaller, with the HIV
technical input provided by the World Bank Office in Beijing, and there were several
TTLs. The only thread of continuity was the international expert involved with the blood
safety subcomponent, who was highly respected by project participants. This continuity
of expertise was rewarded by successful and early achievement of project objectives for
safeguarding the blood supply.

There were, however, insufficient resources and discontinuities in other components.
Discontinuity of task team leaders, particularly midway through implementation for the
HIV and MCH components, sapped project momentum at a time when the policy
environment in China was changing rapidly. Policy dialogue was disrupted at a critical
time in the project. By the time the final Bank TTL was in place, FLO was becoming
irritated with the time required to bring the team leader up to speed with what had been
going on, although a sound professional relationship was maintained at all times.

Over time, the project became nearly invisible due to the lack of a steady Bank presence
in Beijing. At closure of Health IX, the MCH division within MOH had a minimal
understanding about the project. UNICEF was more aware of the HIV component than
the MCH component. WHO was only aware of the blood safety management component,
and that was because training for it was based on WHO guidelines. Both China's Center
for Disease Control (CDC) and UNAIDS had little detailed knowledge of Health IX's
activities or contributions. In part, this reflects staff turnover in UNAIDS and
compartmentalization within CDC, but the project could have done more to overcome
these constraints.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

Project supervision was rated moderately satisfactory. The project is rated satisfactory in
terms of PDO achievement. "Quality at entry" is presumed to have been rated satisfactory.
As noted, the biggest issue in respect of Bank performance was the lack of continuity and

                                             26

presence, which hampered the Bank's ability to effectively address issues and constraints
that arose in implementation, and to use the project engagement to strengthen the policy
dialogue with government counterparts on key issues.

Moreover, some stakeholders questioned whether the Bank deliberately vacated the space
carved out by the HIV component, or if the effort was inadvertently overtaken by the
entry of other organizations into the field. This uncertainty stems from five factors: (a) a
major shift in national HIV policy occurred in 2003, when Bank TTL arrangements were
unstable; (b) the project design did not need modification, but no effort seems to have
been made after the MTR to reassess project activities and priorities in the context of the
new policy environment; (c) appropriate senior-level presence was lacking in Beijing to
engage with major policy shifts under way; (d) weak dissemination of project
experiences; and (e) the Chinese express some reservations about how interested Bank
TTLs have been in the issue since the original team leader. This doubt is puzzling since
the World Bank was a primary driving force for the HIV/STD component. What can be
said is that the turnover in Bank management undermined the crucial push needed for
implementation during the project's middle period and led to a major gap in policy
dialogue just when the policy environment was rapidly changing and the possibility of
meaningful impact was great.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

GOC demonstrated strong ownership of the project during its preparation and early stages
of implementation. It also appointed well-qualified national experts to the project.
However, over time, changes in the technical leadership created gaps in knowledge and
consequently diminished interest. Government restructuring led to a slow start for the
MCH component, and the lack of cross-county subsidization for counterpart funds
resulted in some counties having to drop out. National experts for the MCH component
became too busy with other projects over time.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Ministry and FLO

The Foreign Loan Office was responsible for overall project coordination and conduct of
national activities. The initial manager appeared to lose interest and momentum, but
stayed responsible for the MCH component, while the HIV component was picked up by
a different project manager in 2003. It was not until 2005 that all aspects of the project
were again put under one head (the person who had been running the HIV component).
His dedication, drive, and good relationship with lower levels ultimately enabled the
delivery of project objectives.




                                             27

Despite staffing changes, the FLO provided good project management and
communication with the MCH Division in early periods about the project situation (by
sending reports and holding meetings, and so on) and with the Blood Management
Division. Many supervision visits were conducted jointly with technical staff from the
MOH and other agencies.

However, by the project's middle period, there was limited engagement by MOH
divisions due in part to their engagement with other projects. Some MOH divisions,
perhaps as a result of frequent changes in personnel, could not clearly say by the end of
the project what the Health IX contribution was--other than perhaps helping a few
previously lagging provinces to improve their performances. These divisions did not see
themselves necessarily as a beneficiary or a partner.

Disbursement of counterpart funds was better for civil works, equipment, and local
training than for overseas training, operational study, and other areas of technical
assistance. For the MCH component, changes to civil works in the initial 1997­99 plan
were made to respond to real needs that had emerged, minimize overlapping construction,
and avoid wasting money. Beyond the monitoring of plans and activities, however, no
real central force was driving to improve reporting quality and timelines against key
performance indicators. Among the reasons why are the following: the KPIs did not
always correspond well with regular administrative reporting; the infrastructure for
surveillance had to be implemented through the project; and no central expert was
assigned to drive this aspect of the project's work.

Provincial/county entities

Although provincial and county performance varied, most participating entities were
fully committed to achieving project objectives.

Financial management at project entry got off to a slow start at the provincial/regional
level because of the need to learn the Bank's system and decide how to reconcile its
requirements with those of the Finance Bureau, which were differing, in ways that
satisfied both the Bureau and the Bank. Counties also had difficulties in getting up to
speed with the World Bank system. The slow start at field level was exacerbated by local
leadership not understanding what the project involved, why it was important, the nature
of the counterpart requirement, and why it was necessary to pay upfront and get
reimbursed by the Bank later. Personnel turnover at the provincial level, partly associated
with governmental reorganization, contributed to delays in project financing and
implementation.

Although there were multi-sectoral leadership groups for HIV/AIDS prevention and
control in all project provinces and counties, leadership was inconsistent and not all
departments were active. Policy development between localities varied, and was more
limited in scope in some areas than others. The same situation characterized policy
implementation. Additionally, coordination between government departments and NGOs
remained rather weak. Despite these problems, the project did create a space for sectors
to come together for joint training, and stakeholders report that these opportunities

                                             28

became an important avenue for working out differences (such as over needle exchange
and methadone clinics).

Some confusion about management of operational research occurred between the
provincial and county levels. Although designed initially for provincial-level
implementation, the task was effectively delegated to the counties. Given the on-lending
arrangements as well as counties' limited capacity to undertake or manage research, the
delegated activities were poorly understood, and seemed onerous and unnecessary. Hence
they lagged.

The issues that emerged in operational research were paralleled in project monitoring and
evaluation. Given limited capacity and a historical orientation toward administrative
reporting to meet the interests of leaders, no real appreciation existed for the value and
uses of ongoing monitoring of key performance indicators.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory, given the achievement of
PDOs. Although the ISRs periodically recorded less than satisfactory performances on
some issues--such as counterpart funding, monitoring and evaluation, and procurement,
these implementation barriers ultimately were overcome in the final years of the project.

6. Lessons Learned

Health IX generated several lessons, many of them shared with other projects but some
that are intrinsic to this particular project. These lessons are widely applicable in China as
well as for specific health sector projects in country.

The project should have engaged more effectively on health system and policy issues.
The MCH component was designed as a response to the problems experienced in the
rural system of maternal and child care following the economic reforms of the 1980s.
Over time, the policy environment became more favorable, with the establishment of the
NCMS and the Reduction & Elimination Program, and with increased government
resources and attention flowed to MCH. Up to that point, the project had been primarily
focused on supporting training and specific interventions, and was not well positioned to
inform policy thinking on health system reform. Similarly, in the case of the STD sub-
component, an inadequate government policy and institutional framework is widely
believed to have undermined the impact of the project. Health IX may have been more
influential had it concentrated more system-level issues rather than on direct technical
assistance.

Other parts of the project were more successful in contributing to shift in policy thinking
and laying the foundation for more effective government investment and programs. For
example, the blood safety subcomponent began with the coalescence of government
concern about the blood supply that had yet to find a way of instituting and financing
safer practices. Health IX was able to provide both from the beginning, with the

                                               29

international technical expertise it offered being particularly important. The project's
work ultimately was overshadowed by government investment through the National Debt
Program, but those involved point to Health IX as a trailblazer showing the way forward.
Similarly, the HIV/AIDS component helped shift prevailing attitudes and contribute to
meaningful policy changes. The policy environment evolved as Health IX was able to
demonstrate technical assistance as it became accepted.

Excessive complexity of design undermined the effectiveness of the project. There are
many reasons for the mixed record on high level policy and system issues. One of the
constraints to an effective engagement on these issues was the complexity of project
design. Health IX effectively had three separate components, with a broad range of
technical issues, and with different international and local experts. This complexity was
compounded by a broad and scattered geographic coverage of the project. These features
of the project made it difficult for the TTL to be fully engaged across the board. With a
fixed budget, it also proved difficult to ensure adequate technical input in supervision.

The project failed to remain relevant as a result of weaknesses in Bank supervision
and slow implementation. The ability of the project to be an effective platform for
policy engagement was also undermined by weaknesses in supervision. The turnover of
WB task managers (and limited presence in Beijing) led to a lack of continuity. It also
contributed to a failure to effectively use the mid-term review to reprioritize (or redesign)
project activities as circumstances changed, and to sustain relationships and trust with
government counterparts and development partners. For example, when the HIV/AIDS
Coordination Office under the State Council was set up, the head of the office welcomed
the invitation to join a Health IX supervision mission. Unfortunately this relationship was
not followed up when the Bank TTL changed, and no subsequent connections occurred
with the HIV/AIDS Coordination Office. As a result, there were missed opportunities in
securing the policy partnership and opening policy dialogues.

Slow disbursement of project proceeds led to an extension of the project. This enabled
funds to be fully disbursed. However, over time, project participants became bored with a
lengthy project, particularly if objectives were met early or were no longer aligned with
changing policy environments. Moreover, national experts also became busy with other
activities.

The project could have done a better job on evaluation and lesson-learning. M&E
traditionally has not been well integrated into project design and implementation in health
projects in China. Given the lack of an "information culture," as described by a number
of technical experts, the focus for project management is more often on input rather than
on expected functional capability or on the results/impacts. More attention could be
devoted to process evaluation and lesson learning during project implementation, and
measurement of capacity building could be more explicitly considered. This could have
been achieved by having clearer expectations and templates for case studies and other
approaches for capturing project experiences throughout project implementation. The
institutional arrangements for lesson learning should also have been given more thought.
For example, the compilation and regular updating of project technical guidelines,


                                              30

whether about HIV/AIDS and STD prevention and control or MCH (especially ECD),
required an institutional home.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The borrower/implementating agencies have reviewed the draft ICR. Key comments
concerned the interpretation of some data and clear indication of data sources. All the
comments from them have been incorporated in the revised ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

AusAID was consulted, but declined to provide any comments.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                         31

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                  Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                      Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                         millions)         Appraisal

Component A: Improved
Maternal Health and Child                53.92              56.16            104%
Development (MHCD)
Component B: Improved
Prevention and Control of
HIV/AIDS/STDS and Other                  34.99              36.78            105%

Blood Born Infections
Component C: Project
Coordination and Support                   5.85               5.85           100%


            Total Baseline Cost          94.76               98.79           104%

               Total Project Cost        94.76               98.79           104%

Front-end fee IBRD                         0.10               0.10           100%
                Total Financing          94.86               98.89           104%




(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                   10.00        9.60         96%

                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing      (SDR         (SDR       Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)

International Development
Association (IDA)                                 36.80        36.80        100%




                                             32

Annex 2. Outputs by Component
The baseline and completion key performance indicators are presented as they were measured in the final evaluation reports. The KPIs
are presented as they were in the PAD.
Performance             Key                       Measure                        Baseline            At Project Completion
Development             Performance
Objective               Indicator

Component 1:                           MMR (per 100,000 live         159                         45.1
Reduce maternal                        births)                          93.8                         37.3
and child mortality Reduced maternal       Hunan                        69.1                         24.3
and morbidity and   and child and          Hainan                       75.5                         30.1
improve child       infant mortality       Jilin                        191.7                        57.9
survival and        and morbidity          Guizhou                      576.0                        82.4
development in the                         Xinjiang
poorest areas of
China.                                 IMR (per 1,000 live births)   67.9                        12.5

                                       U5MR (per 1,000 live births)  80.7                        15.8

                                       U5 moderate and severe        5.7%                         1.6%
                                       malnutrition
                    Increased level of Antenatal Care rate (5visits) 16.0%                       75.8%
                    maternal care
                                       Hospital Delivery rate        30.6%                        86.2%
                    Better sick-child  Child nutrition monitoring    33.8% (2000)                52.6%
                    management         rate

                    Better well-child  Exclusive breastfeeding for 4 73.2% (2002)                71.1%
                    and systemic       months
                    newborn care
                                       Neonatal mortality rate (per  39.8                        8.2
                                       1,000 live births)

                                       Postnatal visit rate          33.0%                       84.2%
                    Better family and  Health education coverage of



                                                                    33

Performance       Key                      Measure                       Baseline        At Project Completion
Development       Performance
Objective         Indicator
              community         premarital care population   64.1% (2000)            61.7%
              participation,
              education, and    Health education coverage of 82.7% (2000)            91.9%
              counseling        pregnant women

                                Health education coverage of 61.9% (2000)            83.3%
                                children's parents
              Better management Improved planning and                                Four-tier management mode set up --
              of MCH services   coordination of MCH services                         central, provincial, prefecture and
                                                                                     county levels

                                Improved quantity and                                Regular supervision visits assessing
                                quality of supervisory                               management by central level and WB,
                                support between levels                               including project management
                                                                                     workshop carried out

                                Improved function and use of                         MIS system established, and although
                                MCH management                                       at first deficient, improved throughout
                                information and surveillance                         the project
                                systems
                                                                                     Disbursal of some funds, however
                                Operational research                                 management and activities were
                                                                                     lacking
              Increased health  Health IX Short-term
              workers training  training. Completed as a                             172%
                                percent of planned

                                Health IX In-country
                                Training Progress                                    1,104,228 person-time participants
                                    Short term

                                    Long term                                        12,201 person-time participants




                                                            34

Performance             Key                        Measure                       Baseline        At Project Completion
Development             Performance
Objective               Indicator
                                        Clinical advanced studies
                                                                                             99.6% of planned completed
                                            Long-term training
                                                                                             121.1% of planned completed
                                            Health IX Overseas
                                        Training                                             99.2% of planned completed

                                        Health IX Inner Consultants'                         97.4% of planned completed
                                        Services
                    Improved access to  Project completion actual of
                    MCH care services,  planned coverage of MFA for                          66.3%
                    especially the poor Target population

                                        Hospital Delivery rate       30.6%                   75.8%
                                                Hunan                     34.0%                   95.4%
                                                Hainan                    52.9%                   96.6%
                                                Jilin                     45.4%                   98.1%
                                                Guizhou                   11.6%                   55.9%
                                                Xinjiang                   27.2%                  87.3%

                                        Antenatal Care rate ( 5
                                        visits)                      16%                     86.2%

                                                Hunan                      21.9%                   86.6%
                                                Hainan                     11.4%                   58.0%
                                                Jilin                      34.1%                   73.0%
                                                Guizhou                     9.6%                   70.5%
                                                Xinjiang                    9.9%                   69.6%

Component 2:        Reduced HIV         HIV prevalence rate among
Prevent and control seroprevalence      high-risk groups
morbidity and                            - Drug users                8.38% (1999)            12.90% (2006)
mortality due to                         - Commercial sex workers    2.99% (1999)            0.71% (2006)
HIV/AIDS and                             - STI outpatients           0.21% (1999)            0.93% (2006)



                                                                    35

Performance              Key                         Measure                       Baseline        At Project Completion
Development              Performance
Objective                Indicator
STDs by
implementing
comprehensive and
multisectoral public
health programs at   Reduced STD         Total STI cases reported per   53.8 (1999)

the provincial       prevalence          100,000 population                                    74.3 (2006)

levels, and by
building technical   Increased Policy    No. of supportive policy areas 55 (2000)              211 (2007)
capacity at the      environment         in cities for HIV/STI
central level.       supportive of HIV   prevention and treatment
                     prevention and care

                     Improved            Health education by output                 1999                        2006
                     HIV/STDs            for year
                     interventions and   -Newspaper                     275 issues             1,281 issues
                     support
                                         -Leaflets (10,000 copies)      409.4                  852.3

                                         -Picture posters (10,000       53.5                   170.5
                                         copies)
                                         -Face to face (10,000 person   133.4                  542.1
                                         times)

                                         Media
                                         -No. times television          646                    11,897
                                         broadcast
                                         -No. times radio broadcast     251                    30,753

                                         Proportion project cities with
                                         Interventions to
                                         - Drug Users                   15%                    51%
                                         - Commercial sex workers       30%                    82%
                                         - Floating population          13%                    59.5%
                                         - Women                        32%                    64%



                                                                       36

Performance              Key                       Measure                        Baseline        At Project Completion
Development              Performance
Objective                Indicator
                                        - Students                    35%                     74%



                    Improved            No. new HIV sentinel          0 sites                 146 sites
                    HIV/STDs            surveillance sites set up
                    surveillance system
                                        Total volume of HIV sentinel
                                        surveillance                  9,622                   200,277

                                                         Guangxi              4,554               92,698
                                                         Xinjiang             1,664               43,729
                                                         Fujian               1,196               29,500
                                                         Shanxi               2,208               34,350

Component 3                             Proportion of voluntary blood
Reduce the                              donation
transmission of                                         Guangxi            30%                  100%
blood-borne         Increased voluntary                 Xinjiang           8.8%                 100%
infections by       blood                               Fujian             76.6%                100%
assuring a safe and contributions,                      Shanxi             33%                  100%
adequate blood      quality assurance
supply with         testing, and
improved            transfusion
transfusion         practices           Proportion of repeated
practices.                              donations
                                                        Guangxi            11%                  49.4%
                                                        Xinjiang            2%                  40.4%
                                                        Fujian            17.9%                 43.5%
                                                         Shanxi           17.3%                 47%


                                        Proportion of 400 ml blood
                                        donation




                                                                     37

Performance       Key                       Measure                         Baseline        At Project Completion
Development       Performance
Objective         Indicator
                                                 Guangxi         -                      44.95%
                                                  Xinjiang       0.30%                  43.20%
                                                  Fujian         3.53%                  49.60%
                                                  Shanxi         3.20%                  93.50%


                                 Per thousand population
                                 blood utilization
                                                  Guangxi         - (1999)              3,685.0 ml (2006)
                                                  Xinjiang        893.1 ml (1999)       1,226.9 ml (2006)
                                                  Fujian          1,018.7 ml (1999)     2,084.5 ml (2006)
                                                  Shanxi          1,657.1 ml(1999)      2,441.3 ml (2006)

                                 Proportion of clinical
                                 component blood transfusion     -                      96.41%
                                                 Guangxi         18.06%                 96.20%
                                                  Xinjiang       53.72%                 99.08%
                                                  Fujian         16.50%                 91.70%
                                                  Shanxi

              Reduced            Positive rate of donated blood
              transmission risks                  HIV                                   Less than 0.3%
              of HIV, Hepatitis                   Syphilis                              Less than 1%
              B, and Hepatitis C       Hepatitis B -HBsAg                               Less than 1.5%
                                       Hepatitis C - HCV                                Less than 0.8%
                                                  ALT                                   Less than 3%




                                                               38

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Annex 4 of the PAD describes the rationale for the project and the methodology of the
economic analysis at the appraisal stage. The cost-benefit analysis in the PAD estimated
that all three sub-components are highly cost-effective relative to other internationally
investigated heath sector investment options. Gains in life years were expected to result
from improved and expanded policy environment and multi-sectoral cooperation;
improved management and quality of MCH services and blood transfusion services;
improved family and community participation in health education; improved
interventions and support on HIV/AIDS/STDS and etc.

It was estimated that the MCH components would save a DALY for about RMB 20; the
HIV/AIDS/STDs component would save a DALY between RMB 164 and RMB 139 and
the blood transfusion service subcomponent would spend RMB 181 for per DALY saved
on a 10 year estimation.

This annex will not attempt to replicate the original economic analysis. There are a
number of reasons for this decision. First, in a fast evolving country like China, the
context and environment that the project has been implemented in has changed
substantially. Given these changes, and given the proliferation of related support and
interventions (supported by government or other partners), it is virtually impossible to
identify the specific contribution of the project to the outcomes of interest. Hence,
although the project areas have seen substantial improvements in maternal and child
health, in blood safety, and in the coverage of HIV/AIDS and STD prevention and
control activities, these improvements are at least in part the result of significant
economic growth; improved infrastructure for communities; increased government
financing of public health; including MCH and HIV/AIDS; and new programs and
policies (e.g. -- the Medical Assistance (MA) scheme and New Cooperative Medical
Service (NCMS) that have provide health safety net for the rural residence and the poor;
the Reduction and Elimination (R&E) program for MCH component, the new Statute on
HIV Prevention and Control for HIV component, improved blood management due to the
new National Debt Program).

Second, the project was not merely designed to fund a range of cost-effective
interventions with measureable health impacts in project areas, but also to strengthen
capacity and leadership of government officials and operational staff in the areas of MCH,
safe blood, and HIV/AIDS and STD prevention and control. These broader impacts are
difficult to measure and quantify, but are nonetheless important in considering the merits
of the project. Moreover, they may contribute to improvements in outcomes in non-
project areas, hence further complicating the assessment of project contributions.

Third, there is a lack of the reliable data to underpin a systematic assessment of project
impact. For example, the project baseline survey covered only project areas. There are no
alternative data sources for non-project areas that could be used to evaluate project
impacts (and even if such data were available, most non-project areas will have seen


                                             39

alternative interventions during the 8 years of the project) Moreover, there is limited
research on the costs and benefits of MCH and HIV/ AIDS interventions in China that
could be used as the references.

Notwithstanding these limitations, the reports and studies prepared in connection with the
project completion provide indication of the benefits that have resulted from the project.

MCH

    · Significant improvement of the key MCH indicators has been achieved during the
       period of project implementation (see table below). For example, Maternal
       Mortality Rate (MMR) dropped 71.7% from 159/100,000 at baseline to
       45.1/100,000 in 2007. Compared with non-project counties with the
       implementation of the same government MCH programs, the average rate of
       decline of MMR is 8.9% in HIX project counties, higher than the rate of 7.6% in
       non-project counties. Infant mortality rate (IMR) in the project counties dropped
       81.6% from 67.9 in 1997 to 12.5 in 2007. The annual rate of decline is 8.5%,
       higher than the rate of 7.3% in non-project counties.

      Indicators                                 1997           2007      % Dropped
      MMR(1/100,000)                             159.3          45.1        71.7
      IMR ()                                      67.9          12.5       81.6
      U5MR()                                      80.7          15.9        80.3
      Neonatal Mortality                          39.8           8.2        79.4
      Note: 1. Data for year 1997 is based on the baseline survey, data for year 2007 is
               from regular reporting system

    · The final independent evaluation found higher MCH service utilization by the
       project counties compared with non-project counties. For example, hospital
       delivery rate increased 67% from 48.5% in 1999 to 81.0% in 2006, the national
       hospital delivery rate at the same period only increased 38%.

    · The medical costs for MCH-related services were reduced for the poor families
       duo to the Medical financial assistance program introduced in the project areas.

    · The service delivery capacity was substantially enhanced through project
       interventions such as intensive training, introduction of new technology, new
       programs and new procedures. A significant improvement of management
       capacity for MCH services at all levels was also indicated by the final
       independent evaluation.

HIV/AIDS and STD

    · There are indications that HIV prevalence and incidence were better controlled in
       the project areas. For example, HIV prevalence increased at a slower rate for
       project than for non-project areas, particularly after 2004 when nonproject areas

                                            40

            saw a spike. Incidence rate also increased slowly in project than non-project areas.
            These were achieved on the basis that the control counties started with a much
            lower baseline (only four cases compared to 1,897).

      · Three rounds of behavioral surveillance data show statistically significant
            improvements in reduction of risky and adoption of safer behaviors by CSWs,
            IDUs, and young students (except for condom use by young students in most
            recent sex, for which there was no change). This suggests that project focus on
            specific groups at risk was successfully achieved.

Safe blood

      · Blood laws were legislated and implemented. No shortfalls in meeting requests
            for blood have been reported.

      · Blood management objectives were all reached. Voluntary blood contribution
            increased from 5 percent to over 96 percent; planned donation6 decreased from
            81.2 percent to less than 5.2 percent; clinical component blood transfusion
            increased from 16.5 percent to over 91.7 percent; All project provinces except
            Guangxi achieved 100 percent VUBD. Shanxi now has one of the best blood
            safety programs in the country, with very high rates of 400 milliliter donations,
            repeated donations, and donations from the rural population.

      · HIV, syphilis, Hepatitis B Virus (HBV), Hepatitis C Virus (HCV), and Alanine
            Aminotransferase (ALT) positive rates were consistently detected and small.
            There were no reports of HIV, Hepatitis B, or Hepatitis C transmission through
            transfusion in any project county.




6It is a form of unpaid blood donation organized by any working units that are assigned with quota for blood donation. Incentives
such as vacations, etc are provided to the donors by their employers. Such a practice of blood donation was prevalent in 1990s, and
has been gradually replaced by unpaid voluntary blood donation.



                                                                 41

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                        Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Jagadish Upadhyay        Task Team Leader                  EASHD
Darren Dorkin            Operations Officer                EASHD
Hongwen Zhao             Health Operations Officer         EASHD
Wang Shiyong             Sr. Health Specialist             EASHD
Lansong Zhang            Operations Analyst                EASHD

Supervision/ICR
Teresa Ho                Task Manager                      EASHD
Magnus Lindelow          Task Team Leader                  EASHD
Shiyong Wang             Sr Health Specialist              EASHD
Shuo Zhang               Health Operations Officer         EASHD
Mary Eming Young         Lead Specialist                   HDNCY
Xiaowei Guo              Sr. Procurement Spec.             EAPCO

Haixia Li                Sr. Financial Management
                         Specialist                        EAPCO

Lansong Zhang            Operations Analyst                EASHD
Sabrina Terry            Program Assistant                 EASHD



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks      US$ Thousands (including
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY97                                                                  1.34
  FY98                                                                120.88
  FY99                                                                259.45
  FY00                                                                 15.13
  FY01                                                                  0.00
  FY02                                                                  0.00
  FY03                                                                  0.12
  FY04                                                                  0.00
  FY05                                                                  0.00
  FY06                                                                  0.00
  FY07                                                                  0.00
                        Total:                                        396.92
Supervision/ICR
  FY97                                                                  0.00
  FY98                                                                  0.00

                                         42

   FY99                                                5.07
   FY00                                              124.77
   FY01                                               92.42
   FY02                                              100.39
   FY03                                               99.23
   FY04                                              179.61
   FY05                                               76.76
   FY06                                               89.56
   FY07                                               29.41
                          Total:                     797.22




Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

No beneficiary survey was undertaken for the ICR.

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not applicable.




                                          43

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Borrower's comments are unedited.

Completion Report of Health Nine Project

Foreign Loan Office, MOH
(November 11, 2008, Beijing)

Health IX Project is consisted of two components: Maternal and Children Health and
HIV/AIDS/STD Prevention and control. Financial input from the World Bank is
equivalent to USD 60 millions (USD 35 millions for MCH part, USD 25 millions for
HIV/AIDS/STD Part) with planned counterpart funds of RMB 258 millions (RMB 158
millions for MCH part, RMB 110 millions for HIV/AIDS/STD Part) from GOC. The
project preparation started in December, 1997. The credit/loan agreement was signed in
July, 1999 and the project was formally launched in November, 1999. Through
unremitting efforts and harmonious cooperation between the Bank and the borrowers,
Health IX Project was successfully completed in June 30, 2008 after a 2-year extension.

1. Maternal and Child Healthcare (MCH) component

1.1. Overview
The MCH component of Health IX Project covers 107 counties in Hunan, Hainan, Jilin,
Guizhou and Xinjiang provinces (or autonomous region) with 53 millions population
benefiting from it. The minority groups account for 20%. The objective is to enhance
capacity of primary MCH service and management; to improve marternal health; to
promote psychological and physical development of Children; and to reduce Maternal
mortality, infant mortality rate and to increase the Under 5 children nutritional
surveillance rate. The project includes 6 components of (1) comprehensive healthcare
management for pregnant women and children, (2) family and community involvement
and health education, (3) MCH service management and management information system,
(4) health professionals training, (5) Medical Financial Assistant (MFA) for pregnant
women and children living in poor families; and (6) supporting activities at central level.

1.2. Project achievements

1.2.1. Improving health status and healthcare for project target population
The analysis of core MCH monitoring indicators shows that Health IX has reached its
goals, i.e. to reduce MMR, U5MR and Moderate and Severe Malnutrition Rate of U5
Children. (1) The MMR declined 56%, from 159.3/10000 in 1997 to 45.1/10000 in 2007.
The U5MR () also dropped from 80.7 to 15.9, IMRdropped from 67.9 to 12.5
NMRdropped from 39.8 to 8.2. (2) The disparity of MMR between Health IX
project areas and nation-wide rural areas reduced gradually year by year. After taking out
the confounding impact of government's Two Reduction Project's, Health IX project still
contributes to the drop of MMR and IMR's in the project areas. (3) Moderate and Severe



                                            44

Malnutrition Rate of U5 Children reduced from 5.2 % in the beginning period of this
project to 3.1 % in 2007.

1.2.2. Enhancing delivery of MCH services
In total, Health IX Project financed 263 civil works projects, purchased over 70
thousands pieces of equipment, provided 1 million of short-term training programs and
long term training for 10,000 clinical professionals. Compared with baseline survey, the
MCH service delivery capacity at both the county and township level have improved
substantially in the Project areas.

Through the implementation of the Health IX, the capacity of maternal health services,
screening of high risk pregnant women, first aid & referral and primary children
healthcare had been improved. Maternal death review had been implemented broadly.
Comprehensive management capacity for children diseases had been promoted. Early
Children Development had been initiated.

1.2.3 Improving MCH services utilization and equity
Comparing with the beginning of the project, the MCH service utilization, including out-
patient, emergency, inpatient, supporting medical examination and referral, in the project
areas had significantly increased after the implementation of health education and
Medical Financial Assistance program. Health promotion activities supported by Health
IX project had played an important role in raising the Knowledge Rate of MCH Core
Information and changing the behavior of the targeted population.

MFA program had increased MCH services utilization of poor women and children and
improved MCH services equity through conducting. All the MFA funding came from
government counterpart funds at different levels. The services coverd by MFA program
include maternal health care, child healthcare, normal hospital-based delivery, hospital-
based delivery for high-risk pregnant women, obstetrical emergency, and out-patient and
in-patient medical services for the poor children. By the end of 2007, 200 thousand poor
pregnant women and 500 thousand children under 5 years old from poor families have
received subsidies for their MCH services in 5 project provinces.

1.2.4 Improving the management capacity of MCH services
The management capacity of MCH services in project areas had been improved through
training and other project activities. Advocacy and policy developement on MCH service
in project areas had been advanced, which has led to more attention and support being
paid to MCH works by government leaders. Multiple-sectoral cooperation was also
promoted, there was more budget support on MCH services. The management capacity
on MCH's service, such as planning and programming, organization and implementation,
evaluation and dissemination, routine management of project, have all been improved.

1.3. Lessons and Experiences

1.3.1 Governments' commitment and multiple-sector coordination are the
important prerequisites for the project


                                            45

Chinese government's policy initiatives on MCH services has ensured the government
supports from all levels and enabled multiple-sector participation. These had created the
important environment for the implementation of the MCH component of Health IX
Project. The project implementation has significantly raised the government's awareness
and attentions on MCH, which has in turn secured the provision of counterpart funding
for the project.

1.3.2 Appropriate design and implementation strategy ensured the impact of project
In the design stage of the project, MCH-related policies and successful experiences from
other projects implemented in China were fully considered. The baseline survey was very
helpful in identifying project priorities and deciding on resource allocation. All project
components designed and implemented under H IX project were adapted to the MCH
needs in the poor rural areas at that time, covered most of the primary MCH work and
provided an entire working philosophy. During project implementation, all project areas
developed their implementation plans with consideration of local situation. This way
made the project more operational and assured the outcomes of the project.

1.3.3 Effective project management ensured the smooth implementation of the
project
Smooth implementation depends on organization and management, planning and
coordination, supervision and guidance and other mechanism. The joint supervisions of
Ministry of Health and the World Bank, and the routine project supervision at both
central level and provincial level were important for ensuring project progress and
implementation of the project activities. Based on the project progress and local needs,
Health IX Project amended the fund reallocation and implementation plan twice during
the whole project life, this has played an imperative role in smoothly implementing the
project and realizing the project goals.

1.3.4 Learning from each other and mutual supports between Health IX Project and
other projects laid a foundation for sustainable development of Health IX project
(MCH part)
Health IX project has relatively long implementation period and involves a broad range
of MCH services During the implementation, some other MCH projects were launched,
for example the Two Reduction Project. Health IX project has coordinated with other
MCH projects, sharing the information, knowledge and experiences. Health IX project
(MCH part) provided useful methods and experiences in MCH professionals training,
project management, MFA managerial model and etc while the implementation of other
projects had also contributed to the achievement of the project objectives of Health IX
project. The cooperation has also laid a solid foundation for the sustainable development
of the project.

1.3.5 Technical support of expert panels and many professional protocols ensure
quality of project implementation
Expert panels at central, provincial, municipal, and county levels were established and
played an important role in providing technical support for project implementation.
Routine technical supervisions played irreplaceable role in improving MCH services and


                                            46

enhancing MCH management. In order to improve the quality of the MCH services, all
project provinces developed and updated the MCH service regulations and clinic
protocols. The expert panels promoted the implementation of those regulations and
protocols in the MCH service facilities at all levels. The project activities following those
regulations and criteria not only met Project's objective of improving MCH services
quality at grassroots' level, but also laid a foundation for the sustainable development of
MCH services in the project areas.

1.4. Issues and recommendations
In addition to provide funding and financing equipment, civil works and professional
training, Health IX Project has also introduced new concepts on MCH services and
management. Some thinking and recommendations were summarized as follows on the
basis of experiences and lessons gained in project implementation. These may be useful
in the development and implementation of MCH policies in the future.

1.4.1 To obtain government attention and support is the organizational guarantee
for promoting MCH work
Owing to poor economic conditions in most of project areas, the gained MCH
achievement will not sustain if there is no continued policy support and financial input.
The government's attention is the most important factor in the MCH work. Emphasis
should put on leadership mobilization and policy development, and the government's
responsibilities in MCH work should be reinforced. The government should increase
financial input on MCH work, especially to include MCH service at village level into the
public health package, this will provide a institutional guarantee for the MCH work at
local level. Meanwhile, multiple-sectors cooperation should be strengthened in order to
improve environment of MCH services and to rationally allocate resources in more broad
scope.

1.4.2 There is still long way to go to improve the MCH services capability at root
level and establishing rational management mechanism
The MCH working situation in rural areas, especially in poor areas, is yet to be improved.
To develop MCH services capability and management mechanism should be a long term
priority. In addition to provide the necessary equipment, the systematic training of MCH
professionals at root level should be continued, the implementing of regulations on
professional qualification, certifications and licensing should be strictly enforced, other
important works include: gradually improve the working condition of the MCH staffs,
intensify the MCH services management regulations and operation mechanism at root
level, develop MCH management protocol, establish performance evaluation criteria for
MCH facilities in different areas.

1.4.3 Integrated management of different projects may produce greater benefits
The practice of Health IX Project (MCH part) shows that mutual support among different
MCH projects can produce more social and economic benefits. During the
implementation of the Health IX project, sa few new MCH projects have been introduced
in the Health IX project areas. The experiences shows that more benefits in terms of
capacity building, personnel training, MFA, technical support, health promotion and


                                              47

others could be achieved by fully utilizing and integrating different project resources.

1.4.4 There should be a long ­term medical assistance program to ensure the equity
of MCH services
MFA program of Health IX Project achieved social benefits by making primary MCH
services available for poor pregnant women and children from poor families. In order to
keep the equity of utilizing primary MCH services, it suggests that more practical MFA
scheme should be studied; MFA for poor women and children should be integrated into
overall poverty reduction scheme or into government's medical assistance program.

2. HIV/AIDS/STI Part

1.1. Overview
The budget of Health IX project (HIV/AIDS/STI part) is USD 39.99 million (USD 25
million accounting for 62.5% of the total from the World Bank and other USD 14.99
million accounting for 37.5% as counterpart funds from all level of governments). The
project comprised six sub-components, i.e. (1) policy development and institutional
building, (2) HIV/AIDS/STD surveillance, (3) HIV/AIDS/STD interventions, (4) blood
safety management, (5) the national-level supporting program, and (6) non-government
organization (NGO) involvement. The NGO component had received financial supports
from three international grants (AUD 2 million from AusAID of Australia, a total number
of USD 1.06 million from JSDF, Government of Japan, in two batches). The project
implemented Fujian, Shanxi, Guangxi and Xinjiang in provinces/autonomous regions
covers 55 counties in 35 prefectures with a population of 126 millions that accounts for
74.5% of the total population in the four provinces/autonomous regions.

2.2. Achievements
With continuous efforts during near ten-years, all project activities planned in six
components had been conducted in a comprehensive way. The project development
objectives have been met. For some of them, the project even has performed better than
the originally planned. Being the first large-scale HIV/AIDS/STD project in China,
Health IX Project (HIV/AIDS/STI Part) took the lead in implementing a large number of
innovative programs and approaches and obtained valuable experiences.

2.2.1. Key HIV/AIDS/STD policies and technical guidelines developed
With the support from the Project, Mid and Long-term Plan for Prevention and Control of
HIV/AIDS (1998-2010) and Action Plans for the Control and Prevention of HIV/AIDS
(2001-2005) for the country and particularly four project provinces/ autonomous regions
had been developed, issued and implemented. More than 30 national HIV/AIDS/STD
technical regulations and guidelines were developed and in effectiveness. As many as
544 specific HIV/AIDS/STD policies were issued and implemented at provincial,
prefecture and county level. They account for 90.2% of all HIV/AIDS/STD policies
issued in the corresponding period. Government in many project prefectures and counties
has greatly improved their HIV/AIDS/STD working mechanisms including key leaders
are hold accountable for the local HIV/AIDS prevention and control, multi-sectoral
participation, regular meetings by the local leading group members, and clearly assigned


                                            48

responsibilities for all the relevant sectors. By supporting the national expert panel to
participate in policy development and innovative intervention pilot programs, the project
contributed to establishing a supportive HIV/AIDS/STD policy environment especially
for condom promotion, needle exchange and methadone maintenance among intravenous
drug users.

2.2.2. Improved Capacity for HIV/AIDS/STD response in the project areas
Through various training workshops on different technical areas and the practices
organized under the project, a large number of HIV/AIDS/STD professionals at national,
provincial, prefecture and county levels have been trained to become backbones on
surveillance, HIV testing, HIV surveillance, HIV VCT, intervention among HRGs, blood
safety, etc. It forms the base for the further HIV/AIDS/STD activities to be sustained.
Middle-term and final evaluation showed that test scores of HIV/AIDS/STD knowledge
and attitudes among trained professionals were better in project prefectures than the
control ones. The similar results were observed among government leaders surveyed. At
the end of 2007, Real-Time-Data-Analysis of `Proportion of Surveyed HIV/AIDS Cases
Out of All Reported Cases' conducted by National HIV/AIDS/STD Center, China CDC
indicated that project prefectures have reached a higher proportion of HIV/AIDS cases
than that in non-project prefectures in the same project provinces/autonomous regions.

2.2.3. HIV/AIDS Surveillance and Testing Network Strengthened At National And
Prefecture Level
Health Nine Project supported a large amount of equipment for the National HIV
Reference Laboratory (NARL). With new equipments, the lab set up diagnostic serum
bank, nucleic acid sample bank, cell bank, virus strains bank and genetic sequence bank.
The P3-level Lab was improved. Increased capacity of the NARL in HIV serologic
testing, etiology and nucleic acid testing was critical in providing testing solutions for
difficult samples and responding to HIV emergency events.

The four project provinces/autonomous regions have set up 146 HIV sentinel surveillance
sites during the project implementation.       In addition, the number of HIV testing
laboratory members grew from more than 110 in 1999 to 863 in 2007. Health IX Project
(HIV/AIDS/STI Part) was the first project to launch HIV behavioral surveillance which
was conducted in four project provinces/autonomous regions. Useful information was
generated to inform development, implementation and assessment of interventions and
also be used as baseline data for final evaluation of Health 9. By implementing
behavioral surveillance programs, HIV surveillance capacity in project prefectures and
counties was improved. HIV/AIDS case reporting and sentinel surveillance in project
prefectures and counties was also improved. The number of HIV tests and surveillance
samples increased rapidly every year. The HIV surveillance system in the project
provinces/autonomous regions contributed to identification of 30,814 HIV/AIDS cases.

2.2.4. HIV/AIDS/STD Interventions Implemented In Project Prefectures and
Counties
Since 2000, most of effective HIV/AIDS/STD interventions including outreach servicesin
entertainment places (Karaoke, Sauna, street restaurant/hotel, hair-parlor), condom


                                             49

promotion (entertainment places, hotels, vendor machines and advocacy for policy
development), standardized STD management (standardized STD services, STD case
management, health education and counseling), public campaign through mass media
(TV, broadcast, newspaper, magazine, advertisements, counseling or distributing leaflets
in the streets), peer education (among young students, drug users, miners, MSMs), needle
social marketing, methadone maintenance treatment, voluntary counseling and testing,
training for medical staff, community-based interventions and interventions to reduce
mother-to-child transmission, have been implemented in the project prefectures and
counties. Based on information on local HIV/AIDS/STD epidemic, each project
prefecture or county launched intervention programs or awareness campaigns targeting
different populations such as female sex workers at entertainment establishments,
intravenously injecting drug users, MSM, STD patients, long-distance truck drivers, coal
miners, construction workers, young students, medical professionals, women and general
population.

2.2.5. NGOs Involvement In HIV/AIDS/STD Prevention and Control
Different NGOs at national and project prefecture/county level, including Trade Union,
Women Union, Youth League, Family Planning Association, Red Cross, HIV/AIDS/STD
Prevention and Control Association, HIV/AIDS network, Islamic religion groups and
MSM community-based groups, were mobilized and involved into HIV/AIDS/STD
prevention and control. The project provided training for NGO workers on HIV/AIDS
knowledge, project management, intervention technologies and skills. Supported by the
project grants, NGOs implemented 52 HIV/AIDS/STD intervention programs targeting
mobile population, female sex workers at entertainment places, drug users and their
family, PLWHA and others. The intervention approaches or strategies included peer
education, community care, condom promotion, harm reduction and mass media
campaign. Health IX was the first large scale project in China provided systematic
training and grant supporting to enable NGOs' participation in HIV/AIDS prevention and
control.

2.2.6. Voluntary Blood Donation Being Promoted and Blood Management Being
improved
With the project's support, 75 blood donation sites were set up in Xinjiang, Fujian,
Shanxi and Guangxi provinces/autonomous regions. All blood stations have developed
standardized operation procedures and put them into practice. All staff of blood stations
has undergone professional certificate trainings and examinations (90% of staff passed
the exam). The volume of voluntarily donated blood doubled at the end of the project
when compared to the beginning. Proportion of voluntary donation increased from 5.0%
to more than 96% while planned blood donation dropped from 81.2% to less than 5.2%.
Proportion of blood component transfusion in medical facilities increased from 16.5% to
91.7%. It contributes significantly to prevention of transmission of HIV, syphilis, and
other blood borne infections. In the late stage of the project, indicators showed that blood
safety maintained at a high level with 0.3% for anti-HIV positive rate, less than 1% for
syphilis positive rate, less than 1.5% for HBV positive rate, less than 0.8 for anti-HCV
positive rate and less than 3.6% for ALT abnormity rate.



                                             50

2.2.7. Gained Valuable Experiences in Managing HIV/AIDS/STD Project
The project sets up a good model of project management and learned experiences for
similar projects implemented later. It was demonstrated that the project organization
framework consisting of government leaders, project management officers and technical
experts at national, provincial, prefectural and county level could address very well the
three main challenges rising from the project implementation. These challenges included
difficult to mobilize different sectors and coordinate their activities, complicated
intervention technologies and enormous activities to be conducted. In addition,
international and national consultants, experts and officers jointly and repeatedly
followed the strategy to design project plan, i.e. `discussion and consultancy-field visit-
revising plan'. In this way, the project plan could be specific to the HIV/AIDS/STD
epidemic, reflect priorities of overall response and contain reasonable project activities in
various fields. The development process of annual plan described above, first `from top
to bottom' and then `from bottom to top', would help project staff at both national and
local level to use their advantages for the planning. Moreover, problems or issues with
project implementation could be identified at early stage and addressed properly with
regular project reporting, regular international and national supervisions, and
systematically designed and conducted middle-term and final project assessment. The
regular project reporting was required and consistently checked. Every supervision
mission was planned beforehand and debriefed afterwards.

2.2.8. Significant Achievements In HIV/AIDS/STD Prevention And Control
Final evaluation showed that knowledge, attitudes and behaviors among general and key
high-risk populations improved significantly       The before and after self comparison
showed that awareness rate of HIV prevention knowledge among general population rose
from 3.1% at middle-term to 17.4% at the end of the project. Condom use at last sex
intercourse rose from 19.8% to 30.1% among general population. When compared with
non-project prefectures/counties, awareness rate of HIV prevention knowledge rose from
0.8% at middle term to 3.8% at final stage. Condom use at last sex intercourse rose from
11.4% to 25.6%. More importantly, with the expansion of interventions, the overall STD
prevalence seemed to decline gradually in project prefectures/counties, which was
significant different when compared with that in non-project prefectures/counties. The
prevalence of five STDs, gonorrhea, syphilis, Chlamydia trachomatis, genital warts
among FSWs in project prefectures/counties was much lower than that in control ones
(15.4% vs. 25.0%). The difference is statistically significant. HIV prevalence among
drug users in project prefectures/counties declined from 36.6% in 1999 to 20.8% in 2006.

2.2.9. Models Of HIV/AIDS/STD Prevention and Control
When Health IX Project benefited non-project prefectures/counties. HIV/AIDS/STD
technical guidelines which were developed under the project were issued to non-project
prefectures or counties. Staffs from non-project prefectures or counties were also invited
to attend trainings sponsored by the project. It was common that swap of managerial and
technical staff between project and non-project prefectures. Experiences, knowledge and
skills learnt from the project were introduced to the non-project prefectures. Mobile
population, long-distance drivers and female sex workers who received intervention


                                             51

services in project prefectures/counties could affect their new peer fellows after they
moved to non-project prefectures/counties. The project implemented a series of
successful intervention models and enriched the best practice collection of
HIV/AIDS/STD prevention and control in China These interventions could be used
as reference for future intervention programs targeting female sex workers, intravenous
drug users, youth/students and for standardized STD management program.

2.2.10. The achievements of the Project Would be Sustained
The project helped to establish and strengthen leadership for HIV/AIDS/STD prevention
and control, develop and issue a series of HIV/AIDS/STD policies and guidelines, create
a supportive environment with reduced fear, stigma and discrimination against PLWHA,
and increased participation from NGOs and other sectors, improve the commitment from
the government. All these positive changes have set up a platform for future
HIV/AIDS/STD programs to build upon.

The project has trained a large number of managerial and technical staff that have been
the backbones of the HIV/AIDS/STD programs in project prefectures/counties. Besides,
equipments supported by the project for blood stations, HIV testing labs and intervention
teams will continue to be used after the project closure.

HIV behavioral surveillance guideline and sentinel surveillance sites developed or
established under the project have become an important part of national HIV surveillance
systems. In addition, a series of effective intervention models, technical regulations and
guidelines which have been developed with project efforts can be good references for
future HIV/AIDS/STD programs.

Finally, successful implementation of intervention activities under the Project will surely
be a plus for the project provinces and prefectures to apply for more project funds from
the government or other resources.

2.3. Experience and Lessons learnt
Within the last ten years, about more than two thousand managerial staff and hundreds of
thousands technical staff from different fields had been involved in the project to conduct
a large number of innovative HIV/AIDS/STD activities with enormous efforts. Quite a
lot of valuable experiences have been learnt during this process which can be shared with
or taken as references for other projects.

2.3.1. Establishing Long-Term Mechanism For Involvement Of Related
Government Sectors
HIV/STD prevention and control is a long term endeavour which can not be successful
without government support and overall involvement.           The experience in Yizhou
Guangxi      provides useful lesson on how to maintain sustainable multisectoral
participation. The local government in Yizhou set up a leading groups consisting of key
leaders of all related sectors at city and township level, but also signed letter of
responsibility for HIV/AIDS/STD prevention and control with all related sectors and
township governments. In the agreement, items about responsibilities, working tasks,


                                             52

goals and objectives and reward and punishment were clearly stated. Evaluation was
conducted regularly against the agreements and incentives or punishment would be
exercised according to the evaluation resutls.

2.3.2. Taping NGOs' Advantages and Promotion of Innovations
NGO's HIV/AIDS/STD program can be carefully tailor made for any target population.
Three most important highlights of the NGO initiatives under the Health IX project
include (a) capacity building for NGOs with a combination of training and practicing
through grant support, (b) involving self-organized NGOs or community based groups; (c)
government's willingness to involving NGOs including CBOs in HIV/AIDS prevention
and control .

2.3.3. Mobilizing Medical Professionals To Participate For HIV/AIDS/STD
Prevention And Control
Medical professionals get easy access to the target populations (including HIV/AIDS
patients and high-risk groups) and trusted by them. Health IX Project is the one of the
project that bridged two programs respectively focusing on HIV/AIDS and STI. It
channeled a large amount of resources into promotion of standardized STD management,
training STD clinicians and encouraging them to participate in STD treatment and
prevention.

2.2.4. Development and implementation of Intervention Guidelines and Operational
Procedures
With the project's support, a series of intervention guidelines and operational procedures
were developed. Following these guidelines and procedures has not only ensured key
intervention strategies and measures implemented by reducing potential difficulties and
increasing practicality.

2.3.5. Promotion of Evidence-Based Decision-Making and Design of Intervention
Three rounds of behavioral surveillance, eleven operational researches and quite a few
surveillance and evaluation training workshops were carried out. The following ideas or
concepts were repeatedly stressed and promoted: development and selection of
HIV/AIDS/STD intervention must be based on relevant data collected and analyzed;
program outcomes or impacts have to be the focus of the project.

2.3.6. Project Supervisions
Health IX Project (HIV/AIDS/STI Part) has organized different forms of supervision.
Project supervisions contribute to (a) improved awareness among related government
sectors; (b) improved understanding of project progress and existing problems; (3)
strengthening communication among the World Bank, Ministry of Health, project
provinces/autonomous regions and experts panel; (4) solving key problems hindering
project implementation.

2.3.7. The Roles Of Expert Panels
Health IX (HIV/AIDS/STI Part) set up various national expert panels by project
component, i.e. surveillance, intervention, STD management, blood management and


                                             53

NGO's involvement. The national expert panels maintained stable during the project
implementation. Different forms of incentives such as study tours, sponsoring operational
research, consultant fee were employed. The panels took the lead in developing central
and local intervention plans, developing technical guidelines, preparing supervision
reports, as well as providing input to other project activities.

2.4. Issues And Recommendations
During the ten years' implementation of Health IX (HIV/AIDS/STI Part), the Country
has undergone dramatic changes in its political, economical, cultural context. It has been
challenging for the project to catch up with all the changes that surely have impacts on
the project implementation.

2.4.1. Coverage and Frequency Of Interventions Needs To Be Expanded And
Increased
Many interventions targeting at high-risk groups (such as MSMs, CSWs, IDUs) remain
pilots with limited coverage. The project needs to its experiences learnt and effective
intervention piloted for other projects to take over so that intervention coverage can be
expanded and sustained.      In addition, the frequency of any intervention among HRGs
should be maintained.

2.4.2. Comprehensive Interventions Need To Be Implemented
Integration of different interventions is essential for HIV/AIDS/STD prevention and
control. Development of intervention strategy must take into account features of target
groups and transmission routes. Operational guidelines for integrated HIV/AIDS/STD
prevention and control should be developed. This will help to integrate various
interventions to avoid overlapping and achieving greater synergy.

2.4.3. Coordination Among Government Sectors Needs To Be Further Strengthened
Although coordination among different government sectors has been improved
significantly, there is still a room for improve coordination among them in some
prefectures/counties. Responsibilities of each government sector needs to be clarified,
the local HIV/AIDS/STD leading groups should be fully functioning.

2.4.4. Role Of NGO Needs To Be Further Strengthened
NGOs have their own strengths in access to and provision of services to the needed such
as high-risk, vulnerable and marginalized populations. NGOs component of Health IX
(HIV/AIDS/STI Part) has been instrumental in creation of supportive environment and
capacity building for NGOs' involvement in HIV/AIDS/STD interventions.                It is
important to mobilize various resources to sustain the ongoing NGO initiatives under the
Health IX Project.

2.4.5. To Further Improve HIV/AIDS/STD Surveillance And HIV Testing Lab
Network
Quality of reporting and analysis of HIV surveillance data needs to be improved. In
addition to the reports generarted from three rounds of behavioral surveillance surveys,
best practices and experiences learned should be documented and compiled.             HIV


                                             54

laboratory network needs to improve its quality control, and coordination among member
institutions.

2.4.6. To Strengthen Project Management
Good project management is essential to quality project implementation which in turn is
critical to achieving the project objectives. To strengthen project management (planning,
financing and M&E activities), it is important to make sure stability of project
management teams at different levels, training for managerial staff and establishment of
appropriate incentive mechanism. In addition, communication between different project
sectors or divisions and timely reporting of project progress to the officials at higher
levels and feedback to low levels should be strengthened.

2.4.7. To Strengthen Communication and Cooperation Between Various Technical
Sections
HIV/AIDS/STD program involves various technical sections and disciplines including
surveillance, intervention, STD management, blood safety management, and policy
development. These sections and disciplines involved need to strengthen communication
among them and share information effectively to achieve better synergy and greater
impact on curbing the local HIV/AIDS epidemics.

2.4.8. Dissemination of the Project's Achievements, and Promotion of Experience-
sharing
Experiences learnt, best practices established and results of operational researches need to
be actively promoted and shared with others in order to generate greater impacts. In so
doing, the project achievements under the HIV/AIDS/STD component can be sustained
after the Project is completed.




                                             55

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                     56

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Development Credit Agreement (Health IX Project) between People's Republic of China
and International Development Association, (July 29, 1999).

Foreign Loan Office (2008) Assessment on Medical Financial Assistance (MFA) for
Women and Children in Poverty Households, the MFA Assessment Group for MCH of
Health IX Project, (April 2008).

Foreign Loan Office (Department of Medical Administration and Department of Disease
Control), Ministry of Health (China). Project Implementation Plan for HIV/AIDS/STD
Prevention and Control Component of the Health IX Project Funded by the World Bank
Loan, (October 1999).

Foreign Loan Office (2008) Endpoint Evaluation Report, Health Nine HIV/STI
Prevention and Control Subproject, Foreign Loan Office, Ministry of Health, H9-
HIV/STI Endpoint Evaluation Team, (May 2008).

Foreign Loan Office (2008), Implementation and Effect Evaluation of Early Child
Development, Evaluation Group for Early Child Development, (February 2008).

Foreign Loan Office of MOH, National Expert Panel of MCH Component, Health Nine.
Project Final Summary Report MCH Component, Health IX Project, (May 2008)

Foreign Loan Office (PHC and MCH Department), Ministry of Health (China). Project
Implementation Plan for MCH Subproject of Health IX Project Funded by the World
Bank, (April 15, 1999).

Foreign Loan Office (2008), The Report on Effect Evaluation of Health Education. The
Component of Maternal Health and Child Development in the Project of Health IX, The
Workgroup for Effect Evaluation Group of Health Education, (March 2008).

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and International Finance
Corporation and Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (2006). Country Partnership
Strategy for the People's Republic of China for the Period 2006­2010, (May 23, 2006).

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Letter to Mr. Jin Liqun, Vice
Minister of Finance of the Ministry of Finance regarding the Australian Grant for
HIV/STD Prevention and Control, Grant Number TF23612 (June 13, 2000)..

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Letter to Mr Zhu Guangyao,
Director General of the International Department of the Ministry of Finance regarding the
Japanese Grant for Health Nine Project/NGO Development Project, Grant Number
TF026233, (August 8, 2000).



                                           57

Sichuan University School of Public Health, Peking University School of Public Health
and National Center for Women and Children's Health, China CDC. Final Evaluation
Report of MCH Component of Health Nine Project Supported by WB, MCH Component
of Health Nine Project Final Evaluation Mission, (May 2008).

Whyte, Gordon. Improved Security of Clinical Blood Transfusion in Four Provinces of
China 1997­2005, International Education Development Unit Faculty of Medicine,
Nursing and Health Sciences, Monash University, Australia.

World Bank, Implementation Status and Results Reports for Investment Projects, China
Health IX Project, (03/10/2008, 03/27/08, 04/12/08 and 06/07/08).

World Bank (2006), Implementation Completion and Results Report Guidelines, OPCS,
(August 2006).

World Bank (2007), Implementation Completion Report on a Credit in the Amount of
SDR 63.0 Million (US$85 Million Equivalent) to the People's Republic of China for a
Basic Health Services Project, Human Development Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific
Region, (December 2007).

World Bank (2005), Implementation Completion Report on a Credit in the Amount of
US$100 Million to the People's Republic of China for a Disease Prevention Project,
Human Development Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region, (April 2005).

World Bank (1999), Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan of US$10.0
Million and a Proposed Credit of SDR 36.8 Million to the People's Republic of China for
a Health IX Project, Human Development Sector Unit, east Asia and Pacific Regional
Office, (April 14, 1999)

World Bank (1998) Confronting AIDS: Public Priorities in a Global Epidemic: Oxford
University Press.




                                          58

1

