THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                    AWc,rH rr,ii fu rortyrr
Inf~oShop
Report No: AB91
Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                BANGLADESH-Telecommunications Technical Assistance Project
Region                      South Asia Regional Office
Sector                      Telecommunications (100%)
Project ID                  P081849
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH
Implementing Agency         MOPT AND BTRC
Address                     Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (MOPT)
Address: Building 7, Room 405
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dhaka, BANGLADESH
Contact Person: Secretary MOPT
Tel: 880-2-8312160    Fax: 880-2-8615775     Email: mopt@bttb.net.bd
Bangladesh Telecommunication Regulatory Commission (BTRC)
Address:
House No. 10, Road No. 135, Gulshan-1,
Dhaka 1212, Bangladesh
Contact Person: Chairman BTRC
Tel: 880-2-9890016    Fax: 880-2-9890029     Email:
trbproj@bttb. net. bd
Environment Category        C
Date PID Prepared           May 20, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         March 13, 2003
Bank Approval Date          June 19, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Sector overview. The following section provides an overview of and summarizes the
telecommunications sector management and structure in Bangladesh.



2
PID
Table 1. Existing Framework of Telecommunications Sector in Bangladesh
Policy Maker                  Ministry of Post and Telecommunications (MOPT)
Regulatory             Bangladesh Telecommunications Regulatory Commission (BTRC)
Agency
Service                Basic Fixed Services            Cellular Services  Value Added
Providers              Local (limited competition)        Competition      Services
Domestic Long Distance (monopoly)                     Competition
International Long Distance (monopoly)
Public Sector       Private Sector     Private Sector   Private Sector
Company     No of    Company  1 No of   Company   No of   Internet Service
lines               lines          .  lines  Providers (ISPs),
Bangladesh  605,500  Bangladesh Rural 24,000 Grameen Phone 700,700  VSAT service
Telegraph and       Telecom Authority                -     providers and others
Telephone Board        (BTRA)             City Cell  99, 930
(BTTB)            Sheba Telecom  2,000  AK Tel   126,200  Data as of end
I      Sheba Telecom  34,000  September 2002
The MOPT is the government ministry responsible for formulating the government's policy for
the telecommunications sector. The National Telecommunications Policy of 1998 is currently being
implemented. The telecommunications sector in Bangladesh is governed by the Bangladesh
Telecommunication Act, 2001. The law provides an adequate framework for the development of a
workable regulatory regime. Through enactment of this legislation, the Government created the BTRC,
which resulted in the transfer of regulatory functions from MOPT to BTRC, and the Government
appointed the chairman and commissioners of BTRC to start operation on January 31, 2002. BTRC is
responsible for regulating the sector in keeping with both the Act and telecommunications policy as
determined by MOPT. It is responsible for licensing operators and ensuring compliance with license
terms and conditions; managing the radio spectrum; ensuring technical compatibility and effective
interconnection between service providers; monitoring carrier quality of service; approving tariffs; and
providing equipment type approval.
The incumbent monopoly operator is the government-owned BTTB, established by the 1979
BTTB Ordinance No. XII, to function under the MOPT. This ordinance was amended in 1995, to create
the Telecommunications Regulatory Board (TRB) also functioning under the MOPT. TRB was the
precursor to BTRC. BTTB has been operating as a GOB department. BTTB's management board
consists of a Chairman, four full time members and three part time members, all of whom are appointed
by the Government. The MOPT reviews BTTB's annual development plans, the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) approves the financing plan and allocates funds. The Planning Commission approves the Annual
Development Plan and allocates capital development funds for BTTB.
BTTB has a de facto monopoly on domestic fixed-line public telephony and a de jure monopoly
over international telephony. The telecommunications sector in Bangladesh has limited competition,
with four licensed private sector mobile operators and a number of value added service providers,
including Internet Service Providers (ISPs). The mobile operators are directly responsible for 72 percent



3
PID
of all new lines in service since 1996. Grameen Phone, the largest mobile operator leases capacity from
Bangladesh Railways' fiber optic network and provides nationwide mobile services.
Main sector issues. The performance of the Bangladesh telecommunications sector has fallen
far short of its potential and remains a significant constraint to economic growth. The main sector issues
can be classified under two broad categories: (a) poor sector performance, and (b) weak competition and
private investment environment. These issues are further discussed in the following sections.
Poor sector performance. Despite being the first country in the region to license private
operators to provide services in 1989, Bangladesh lags behind all countries in the South Asia region, both
in the coverage and quality of telecommunications services as evidenced by the indicators in Table 2.
Table 2: South Asia ICT Indicators (ITU, WDI 2001)
Bangladesh   India     Nepal     Pakistan   Sri Lanka
Population (in millions)           133.4     1,033.4    23.6       141.5       19.6
GDP per capita (US$)
386       472       250        521         869
Main telephone lines in operation
(in million)                        0.56      38,54     0.30       3.38        0.83
Cellular mobile telephone subscribers
(in million)                        0.52      6.43      0.02       0.81        0.67
Fixed teledensity *                 0.43      3.75      1.31       2.33        4.43
obile teledensity                 0.40      0.63      0.08       0.56        3.56
Total teledensity                   0.83      4.38      1.39       2.89        7.99
Rest-of-country teledensity **      0.19      3.58      0.22       1.74        3.51
Number of internet hosts             3       82,979     1,513     11,319       2,286
Estimated internet users (million)  0.25      7.00      0.06       0.50        0.15
* Teledensity means number of lines per 100 people
** Rest of country means excluding largest city, data for 2000
This poor performance can be evidenced by a number of factors:
*   Limited access to telecommunications services, The overall level of teledensity in Bangladesh is
very low at approximately 0.83 lines per hundred persons compared to an international low
income group average of 4.00 lines per hundred persons. This low level of teledensity reflects
the failure of initiatives to attract the private investment needed for the sector as well as the poor
performance of the dominant operator BTTB to meet customers' demand. BTTB's capacity
limitations constrain supply within the overall sector. Despite high fixed-line connection charges
(only recently reduced to approximately US$150 from approximately US$350) BTTB cannot
keep up with demand, and installation wait times average several years. Capacity constraints
similarly affect interconnection for mobile operators, who in the absence of adequate
interconnection, offer mobile-to-mobile only services for a majority of their customers and are
unable to expand services in line with growth in demand. The results are (a) a significant unmet
demand for basic telephone lines, estimated at about 3.5 million immediately, growing to 10
million within three years; and (b) inadequate fixed-line national and international services.



4
PID
*   Low rural teledensity. Although approximately 80 percent of Bangladesh's population resides in
rural areas, access to services in these areas is limited. Non-Dhaka and rural teledensity is
estimated to be only about 0.19 lines per hundred persons. At present, the two private rural
fixed-line operators provide only about 26,000 main lines in the rural areas. Telecommunication
services provided by cellular companies are not accessible to most of the rural population.
Although some cellular operators like Grameen Phone have initiated a village phone program to
bring connectivity to rural areas, less than one third of Bangladesh's 68,000 villages have access
to phones. Given the economic importance of access to rural communities and the high cost of
rural provision, there is a need for public policy and regulatory intervention to promote access in
rural areas.
* Poor performance of BTTB. The government-owned and controlled incumbent operator BTTB
has not improved its performance despite substantial public investments in the organization. It
continues to operate under a protective regime with little accountability to both its owners and
customers. For example, as an indicator of efficiency, the BTTB has approximately 29 lines per
employee (in 2002), compared to the international low income group average of 69 lines per
employee. BTTB has found it difficult to improve efficiency in an environment where it has: (a)
faced limited competition, (b) needed to follow civil service procedures for staffing and
procurement, and (c) had inadequate access to capital. BTTB, in its current structure, lacks the
resources--financial, technical, human resources--and the autonomy to achieve its target of
meeting demand. It has very limited decision making authority and needs MOF and MOPT
approval for most investments and general expenditures. This has led to limited service
availability, lack of new product rollout and generally poor service quality. Competition is also
growing in several forms: mobile telephony is creating a viable substitute for BTTB's services,
voice-over Internet protocol (VOIP) (authorized or unauthorized) and falling international
settlement rates have eroded BTTB's highly profitable international monopoly. As BTTB lacks
the autonomy and incentive to productively invest its profits back into building its network,
national infrastructure and sector performance is crippled and this reduces the value of BTTB as
a government asset.
Competition and private investment environment. Many factors can be attributed to the low
level of private investment in the sector. In general, there are inadequate incentives for high levels of
private investment to take place. Factors contributing to limited competition and poor private sector
investment include:
* Lack of separation between policy and operational roles of government. BTTB is MOPT's
primary advisor on technical elements of policy issues and MOPT is responsible to government
for BTTB's revenue. This has not necessarily ensured transparent and accountable development
of policies in the sector. It has instead created policy distortions in BTTB's favor and an uneven
playing field for private investors in a sector where the government is responsible for both policy
formulation and service provision. Further, MOPT's capacity to formulate sector policies
remains weak.
*   Limited Competition. Important market segments such as international long distance remain
closed to competition. While the National telecommunications Policy of 1998 clearly indicates
that the basic services and national long distance segments will be opened to private
participation, no new operators have as yet been licensed. Further, despite the liberalization of
very small aperture terminals (VSAT) service, private VSAT operators are not permitted to resell



5
PID
excess capacity on their networks.
* Provision of mobile services by the public sector. Progress is being made for the provision of
mobile services by the public sector. Public sector provision of mobile services will have to take
place in a pro-competitive manner. That is, BTTB has to ensure fair transfer pricing, provide the
new public operator and other private operators the same conditions for interconnection and
sharing of facilities, and the government has to provide adequate safeguards that level the playing
field. The public mobile operator should operate in a pro-competitive basis, without public
subsidies or government guarantees.
* Limited capacity of BTRC. BTRC is a young organization and faces the challenge of institution
building while establishing the regulatory regime. BTRC has the authority to establish the
regulatory regime relative to issues such as interconnection, licensing, tariffs, spectrum
allocation, and other issues that will affect competitiveness of the sector. Using these tools to
create the initial regime and communicate them to sector players will be key to creating and
maintaining a level playing field that provides certainty and adequate incentives for private
investment in the sector. It is critical to build capacity in BTRC so that it can establish and
maintain regulatory credibility, which will partly be measured by its ability to render impartial,
transparent and enforceable decisions and through the establishment of transparent regulatory
processes and procedures. While the Act generally provides for a significant degree of
independence for BTRC, it includes certain provisions which may compromise this
independence, including: (a) BTRC Commissioners are appointed by government; (b) BTRC
reports on its activities through the MOPT, not directly to parliament; (c) MOPT has the right to
promulgate rules pertaining to the Act and to direct the BTRC to modify regulations; and (d)
BTRC is subject to civil service rules and salaries.
*   Inadequate interconnection arrangements. One of the greatest bottlenecks to enhanced
competition and private investment is the lack of interconnection capacity. Interconnection with
BTTB is consistently named as one of the top issues to be resolved in the sector by private
operators. The current interconnect environment is based on "revenue sharing agreements"
between BTTB and the mobile operators. These agreements are based on retail prices and
asymmetric payments (i.e., BTTB does not compensate mobile operators for call termination, but
mobile operators pay BTTB for termination). An additional feature of the interconnect
environment is inadequate supply and difficulty concluding negotiations. An interconnection
regime, conducive to fair competition has not yet been established and has thwarted growth of
existing cellular service providers. BTRC is mandated to issue interconnection guidelines and
resolve interconnection disputes among operators. In this regard, BTRC has received a limited
technical assistance grant from the Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF) to
establish a fair, pro-competitive, interconnection regime. BTTB and the private cellular
operators recently signed a memorandum of understanding whereby the private operators will
invest approximately US$1.7 million in order to increase BTTB's network capacity to provide
increased interconnection for cellular subscribers. This is a positive development.
*   Distorted tariffs. Bangladesh's current tariff regime cross-subsidizes local calls by revenues
earned from the national long distance and international calls. Further the price structure does
not reflect costs. This has led to an inefficient allocation of resources and has inhibited fair
competition and private investment in basic and cellular services.
* Ineffective spectrum management. A rational and effective spectrum management system that
optimizes the use of a valuable national resource is essential for an orderly and competitive



6
PID
telecommunications market. The BTRC has not yet been able to effectively manage the radio
spectrum or reap fiscal benefits from the optimal use of this national resource. Ineffective radio
spectrum management has been identified as a significant problem by private sector investors.
Problems encountered include slow processing of spectrum licenses, excessive spectrum fees,
inadequate and inefficient allocation of bandwidth, and interference caused by unauthorized use
of spectrum. This has created bottlenecks for sector development and served as a deterrent for
new investments in services using wireless technologies.
Government strategy. The Government has undertaken several initiatives over the past four
years to reform the telecommunications sector, including introducing competition and sector regulation.
Some of the key policy initiatives and actions taken by the Government are discussed below.
*   The GOB's prevailing National Telecommunications Policy of 1998 recognizes competition and
private participation as a means of promoting improved sector performance. Private investments
and operations are expected to play an increasingly important role in the provision of
telecommunications services. The MOPT has an informal goal for the sector of a teledensity of
3.3 by 2005. Achievement of this goal will require a capacity increase of 3.5 million lines.
MOPT also has an informal goal for telereach of having service available in every village in
Bangladesh. With assistance from the Infrastructure Investment Facilitation Center (IIFC), the
Government has had public stakeholder consultations and reviewed the 1998 policy, with a view
to revise the policy.
*   The Government announced its National Information and Communications Technology (ICT)
Policy in September 2002, as it aspires to use ICTs as a key engine of economic growth. This
policy envisions building a knowledge-based society by the year 2006, where access to
information allows for citizen empowerment, enhanced democracy, and sustainable economic
development. It states that ICT infrastructure will be developed for use in human resource
development, governance, E-commerce, banking, public services and other ICT enabled services.
The Government recognizes the need for reliable and competitively priced telecommunications
infrastructure as a prerequisite for meaningful implementation of its ICT policy. The policy calls
for accelerated deregulation of and private participation in the telecommunications sector. The
prime minister heads a high level national ICT task force which is spearheading the ICT
development agenda.
*   Recognizing that BTTB's poor performance is a key hurdle in implementing its ICT policy, the
GOB has taken the decision to restructure BTTB in order to dramatically improve sector
performance and meet its ICT policy objectives. It has established a high level task force, led by
the MOPT, to examine the various options available for restructuring BTTB. The committee will
provide its recommendation on BTTB restructuring to the Government by end of June 2003.
Key elements ofjustification of such a restructuring are to: (a) create a level playing field within
the sector by separating the Government's policy function from operations; (b) to empower
BTTB to operate as a commercial enterprise with the necessary financial and administrative
autonomy to compete with private operators in a dynamic multioperator environment; (c) remove
preferential treatment given by the Government to BTTB; (d) allow for the pro-competitive entry
of BTTB into the mobile market on a level playing field; and (e) to increase overall employment
and government revenue in the sector by allowing for a more robust competitive environment.
*   The establishment of BTRC in January 2002, as stipulated in the Telecommunications Act of
2001, and appointment of its chairman and commissioners, are steps in the right direction



7
PID
towards implementing telecommunications sector reforms. The Government has recognized the
need to strengthen BTRC's regulatory capacity to ensure a level playing field in a multioperator
environment and is seeking multilateral and bilateral assistance for BTRC capacity building.
*   In addition, the Government has decided to introduce competition in local and long distance
services by licensing private operators. The BTRC, assisted by the IIFC is currently preparing
the necessary documentation to license new operators.
The above initiatives and actions are a clear indication of the Government's commitment to
reforming the telecommunications sector. Moreover, the National ICT Task Force of the GOB, headed
by the prime minister, is leading the reform process with the Principal Secretary to the Government as the
reform champion.
The Bank has pursued policy dialogue with the Government and in its assessment of the
telecommunications sector, has discussed that a priority issue for improving performance of the sector is
to implement its 1998 policy, including BTTB restructuring. Recognizing that policy implementation
requires a long-term view and short-term actions, the GOB and Bank have agreed that the overall
long-term sector vision and plan will necessarily include actions on the priority issues in the associated
time frames as depicted in Table 3 below:
TABLE 3.                         SECTOR OBJECTIVES AND ACTION PLAN
Time Frame      _     Short-Term                 Medium-Term               Long-Term
Policy Objectives  I .To support independence  I.To refine business    I.To continue to attract
between policy,              environment for         sufficient investment to
regulatory, and operational  telecom operators       serve the needs of the
functions                  2.To attract new          nation
2.To create a level playing   investment to sector   2.To promote innovation
field for telecom operators  3.To increase rural access  and investment
to ICT services
Priority Issues  I .Separation of policy     1 .Further restructuring of  I.Greater private sector
making and operation roles   BTTB's successor        opportunities
for Government               company               2. Convergence
2. Sector liberalization     2.Universal Access
__________________                   _ Strategy
Priority Action  I .BTTB restructuring and    I .Develop options for  1. To Be Determined
Items         MOPT strengthening           private participation in
2.Revise Bangladesh's WTO     BTTB
Commitments on             2.Legislative change to
telecommunications           protect BTRC
3.BTRC strengthening          independence
4.Award new licenses         3.Adopt and implement
5.Establish and implement a   Universal Access
fair interconnection regime  strategy



8
PID
2. Objectives
The project objective is to improve the performance of Bangladesh's telecommunications sector
through strengthening elements of the policy, institutional, and regulatory framework in order to promote
the competitive provision of telecommunications infrastructure and services. This will be achieved by:
(a) separating the policy and operational roles of the government in the sector by restructuring the
Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board (BTTB) to operate on a commercial basis; (b) strengthening
the policy function of the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications (MOPT); and (c) strengthening the
regulatory capacity of the Bangladesh Telecommunication Regulatory Commission (BTRC). At the end
of the project period, it is envisaged that there will be a clear separation in the operational and policy
roles of the government and that BTRC's capacity to effectively regulate a competitive
telecommunications sector would be improved.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is involved in dialogue on telecommunication sector reform in over 60 countries,
including India, Afghanistan, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka in the region. The Government recognizes
the value added of Bank support in terms of its extensive international experience in addressing
telecommunications sector reform, designing effective policies and establishing regulatory frameworks.
This experience coupled with the Bank's neutrality is attractive for the Government. In addition, the
Bank has developed significant experience in supporting the international best practice approach to
spectrum management and monitoring. The Bank is involved in supporting spectrum management and
monitoring in several countries, such as India, Nigeria, Pakistan, Nepal, and Sri Lanka.
4. Description
The project includes two main components, the MOPT and BTRC components: IDA will
finance local and international consultant services, studies and training as well as procurement of
necessary equipment. The project is estimated at $11.11 million with proposed IDA financing of $9.12
million. The detailed project cost and IDA financing by components/activities are provided in the table
below.
1. MOPT Component
(a) BTTB Restructuring
(b) Strengthening MOPT's policy functions
(c) Strengthening project management capacity
2. BTRC Component
(b) Spectrum Management and Monitoring System
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
BORROWER                   $1.99
IBRD
IDA                        $9.12
Total Project Cost         $11.11



9
PID
6. Implementation
Implementation period. The project will be implemented over four years, September 1, 2003
through December 31, 2007.
Project implementation and coordination. The two organizations responsible for implementing
the project are MOPT and BTRC. Each of the implementing agencies will be responsible for executing
its respective component. Project Steering Committees (PSC) have been established at each of the
implementing agencies to provide overall guidance on the management of the project components. The
PSC in MOPT and BTRC, will be headed by the Secretary MOPT and Chairman BTRC, respectively.
Project Management Teams (PMT) have been established at MOPT and BTRC to manage in a timely
manner the reforms supported by the project. The PMTs are headed by a Project Director and include
staff from within the MOPT and BTRC who are knowledgeable in procurement and financial
management. The Project Directors for the PMTs are senior officials from MOPT and BTRC. The
PMTs in both MOPT and BTRC will also be assisted by local Project Management Consultants (PMC)
and Project Implementation Specialist (PIS), respectively, funded under the proposed credit. Their
principal task is to support PMT in the implementation of the project components. The PMC will assist
with financial management and facilitate the procurement of the main activities for each component and
assist in the administration of procurement planning and preparation of relatcd documents for MOPT,
including BTRC.
Procurement: Procurement under the project will involve consultants' services including
training and goods. The project supports the procurement of the spectrum management and monitoring
system which will be procured through ICB procedures. For all other goods, since the contracts' sizes are
very small and shopping is the preferred procedure, IDA will carry out prior review of the first two
contracts for shopping. All Goods financed under the Credit will follow procedures outlined in the
Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits ", published in January 1995,
and revised in January 1999. For consultants' services, IDA's prior review will be required for
consultants' services contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more for firms and
US$50,000 equivalent or more for individuals. Consulting services and training will be hired in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers ", published in January 1997, and revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002.
Procurement of goods and services will follow the Bank's approved/standard documents. An assessment
of the procurement capacity of the implementing agencies was carried out during pre-appraisal and
actions to meet the adequate procurement management requirements were agreed upon. The assessment
and the action plan are provided in Annex 6, para 20.
Financial management. The beneficiary agencies financial management capacity assessment
was conducted by a Bank financial management specialist. In order to mitigate potential financial
management risks and to strengthen financial management capacities, it was agreed that MOPT and
BTRC would employ project management consultants and project implementation specialist,
respectively, prior to credit effectiveness. The detailed assessment and the action plan agreed to improve
the financial management are provided in Annex 6(b).
Project reporting requirements, monitoring and evaluation arrangements. The MOPT and
BTRC will be responsible for maintaining records and accounts of the activities under their respective
project components. MOPT and BTRC will prepare quarterly Financial Management Reports (FMRs),
which will project implementation progress, including status of procurement activities, sector reform
initiatives, and financial aspects of the project, in accordance with the agreed upon format. The project
management consultants in MOPT will assist in the preparation of FMRs to be submitted to the Bank



10
PID
within 45 days of the end of each quarter. The project reporting, monitoring and evaluation
arrangements will include, inter alia: (a) quarterly FMRs; (b) three Bank supervision missions annually
for the first two years and biannual, thereafter; (c) joint MOPT/Bank and BTRC/Bank annual progress
reviews and midterm review (about two years after date of effectiveness of the loan); and (d) completion
report to be transmitted by the GOB to the Bank within six months of the closing of the project.
Mid Term Review: The mid-term review will be conducted jointly between MOPT and the Bank
and the BTRC and the Bank on the basis of a report prepared by the PMTs with the assistance of the
PMC in such a manner as to: (a) assess progress in the implementation of key actions and performance
indicators; (b) verify the continued validity of the design assumptions in light of implementation
experience and the evolving environment; and (c) identify remedial actions that might prove necessary to
achieve the Project's objectives. In addition to the above, during mid term review a detailed sector
assessment will be carried out to evaluate sector evolution, vis-a-vis, sector and market structure;
performance, issues and challenges. The Bank and GOB will also identify the need for possible future
interventions, especially on issues related to deepening sector reform and accelerating rural access to ICT
services. Further, a review will also be carried out on the sector tariff rebalancing plans and agreement
will be reached on establishing tariff rebalancing indicators and targets.
Audit. Project financial statements will be audited annually in accordance with standards on
auditing acceptable to the Bank by an independent auditor. The audit of project accounts will include an
assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems, ability to maintain adequate
documentation for transactions, eligibility of expenditures for Bank financing and availability of
counterpart funds. The audited project financial statements together with the auditor's opinions on
financial statements, Special Accounts (SA) and with respect to amounts claimed on the statement of
expenditures separately for MOPT and BTRC, will be submitted to the Bank not later than six months
after the close of each fiscal year. The auditors of the Foreign Aided Projects Audit Directorate
(FAPAD) of the Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG) are acceptable to the Bank as independent
auditors for MOPT component. BTRC's statutory audit by a firm of Chartered Accountant, which are
acceptable to the Bank, will also include an audit of the project financial statements. Separate BTRC's
audit report on the entity and the project will be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the
close of each fiscal year.
Disbursement. There will be two separate Special Accounts in Convertible Taka (CONTASA)
under the project for each of the implementing agencies, in accordance with MOF circular of September
2, 1991, revised on May 4, 1992 and December 24, 1992. Both the implementing agencies will be
responsible for managing their respective Special Accounts including submission of withdrawal
applications to IDA. Transaction based or traditional disbursement procedures will be followed for
withdrawal of IDA funds. The proposed Credit will be made available to the Government at IDA
standard terms and conditions. The Government will provide the proceeds of the Credit as grant to both
1MOPT and BTRC for technical assistance. The Government would ensure timely availability of its share
of project funding. The counter-part fund for BTRC component would be made available from its
revenue earnings for timely utilization of IDA's fund. Counterpart fund of the MOPT component will be
included in the Annual Development Program and would be released through the CAO (T&T) and would
be paid directly to the beneficiaries on the basis of approved bills/invoices, requiring no separate project
bank account.



11
PID
7. Sustainability
By developing an adequate institutional and regulatory framework for market-based
telecommunications service provision, the project will help accelerate investment and improve sector
performance. Incentives to sustain project objectives include strengthening the regulatory framework so
that the rights and obligations of the incumbent and private operators are codified both in the legislation
and licenses. Improved service coverage and quality at more competitive prices will be sustained as
private investment grows in telecommunications infrastructure and services.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The following lessons were learned from other sector reform and restructuring projects and from
international experience in the telecommunications sector and are reflected in the project design
*   Newly established regulatory agencies are frequently overwhelmed, but have little expertise and
resources to draw upon. Support from resident advisors, operational advice and hand holding
during the initial years of operation are invaluable.
*   Telecommunications sector policies should include a set of incentives to promote access to
services for remote rural communities and to improve the affordability and availability of
services to the poor in both rural and urban areas.
* Competition is key to increasing growth in the sector.
*   A clear, predictable regulatory framework is a prerequisite to attracting investment in the sector.
Furthermore, the momentum created by policy reform initiatives can lead to sustained sector
growth, provided prompt implementation is undertaken.
*   Government should not participate as a provider of telecommunications services, which are more
efficiently run as commercial entities.
*   Speed is key to telecommunications reform. The design of this operation is intended to achieve a
quick win in the separation of the policy and operational roles of government which is a
cornerstone of sector reform.
*   A project that is focused and simple to administer (e.g., focusing just on telecommunications
rather than including other sectors) is less likely to get bogged down by administrative or other
procedural delays.
*   Strong government commitment is necessary for successful implementation of a technical
assistance project.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues  : No issues.
10. List of factual technical documents:
NA



12
PID
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Rajesh B. Pradhan
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-2698
Fax: 202-522-3001
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:ll www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending:  05/20/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH         FEEPSACK      SrT9 MAP      sOWCAse



