Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3790 BD 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Telecommunications Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
BANGLADESH TELECOMMUNICATION REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Dated June 30, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3790 BD 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 2003, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and BANGLADESH 
TELECOMMUNICATION REGULATORY COMMISSION (BTRC). 
 
WHEREAS (A)  by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between P
eople’s Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to six million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 6,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on conditions that BTRC agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and BTRC, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to BTRC on the terms and 
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS BTRC, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE  the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance with  
Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 2.01. (a) BTRC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and telecommunications practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for Part B of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BTRC shall carry out Part B of the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) BTRC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, BTRC shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and BTRC, a plan for the 
future operation of Part B of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with BTRC on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. BTRC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BTRC shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary  Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) BTRC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of  Part B of the Project, the performance 
Page  4
-
3
-
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
BTRC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BTRC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
 
Section 2.06. BTRC shall, by no later than January 1, 2004, fill in the position of 
its  assistant director (Finance and Revenue). 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Management and Operations of  BTRC 
 
Section 3.01. BTRC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and telecommunications practices under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. BTRC shall: (a) by no later than December 31, 2003, announce an 
interconnection regime, in form and substance acceptable to the Association, including, 
inter alia
,
interconnection regulations, model interconnection agreement, guidelines and 
methodologies for determining interconnection costs and charges, reference 
interconnection offer, and dispute resolution mechanisms, and shall, take all necessary 
measures to ensure the implementation of such regime by no later than 
 
December 31, 2004; (b) by no later than December 31, 2004, develop and implement a 
national frequency allocation plan and spectrum pricing policy; and (c) by no later than 
December 31, 2004, furnish to the Association, a human resources development plan for 
its spectrum management and monitoring unit. 
 
Section 3.03. BTRC shall, prior to issuing bidding documents for the spectrum 
management and monitoring system, secure land for its spectrum management 
monitoring stations. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) BTRC shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to Part B of the Project. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) BTRC 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year,  
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and  
(B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors,  of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon BTRC’s reporting obligations set out in 
Section 4.01, BTRC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring 
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part B of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Credit, and 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast  
uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in the implementation of Part B of 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and explains variances between the actual
 
and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Part B of the Project, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under Part B of the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
BTRC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
 
(ii) 
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify BTRC of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party
’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For BTRC: 
 
Chairman 
 
Bangladesh Telecommunication Regulatory Commission  
 
House No. 10, Road No. 135, Gulshan-1,  
 
Dhaka 1212, Bangladesh 
 
Facsimile: 
 
880-2-9890029 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of BTRC, may be 
taken or executed by its Chairman or such other person or persons as the Chairman shall 
designate in writing, and BTRC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in  Dhaka, People’s Republic of Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Frederick Temple   
Country Director 
Bangladesh 
 
BANGLADESH TELECOMMUNICATION  REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
By /s/ Syed Marghub Murshed 
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Implementation Program 
 
(a) BTRC 
shall: 
 
(i)  
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
performance set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the 
carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
 
(ii) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, on or about September 1, 2005, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (i) above, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of Part B of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(iii) 
review with the Association, by December  1, 2005, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
sub-paragraph (ii) above, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of Part B of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter. 
 
 
(b) 
The review referred to in (a) above shall be aimed at, 
inter alia
:
(i) assessing progress in the implementation of key actions and performance indicators 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (ii) verifying the continued validity of the 
design assumptions in light of implementation experience and the evolving environment; 
(iii) discussing the tariff rebalancing plans for BTTB or its successor company and 
establish tariff rebalancing indicators and targets; and (iv) identifying remedial actions 
that might prove necessary to achieve the Project’s objectives. 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
Unless otherwise agreed between the Association and BTRC, the following 
performance indicators shall be used to measure the achievement of Part B of the Project:   
 
(a) 
BTTB or its successor company awarded a pro-competitive license by 
BTRC by end of 2004. 
 
(b) 
Establishment of transparent licensing and regulatory regime and clear 
rules of business by end of 2004. 
 
(c) 
Licensing of new operators to provide fixed-line local service by end of  
2005. 
 
(d) 
Licensing of new operators to provide domestic long distance services by 
end of 2005. 
 
(e) 
Rebalancing of sector tariffs by end of  2006. 
 
(f) 
Radio frequency assigned within 15 days of application by end of 2006 for 
90% of the applications.  
 
