                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR00001435



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-37900)



                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT


                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.70 MILLION
                       (US$ 9.12 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                     FOR A

        TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT



                                  June 30, 2010




Global Information and Communication Technologies Department
Bangladesh Country Unit
South Asia Regional Office
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective: March 23, 2010)

               Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk.)
                      Tk. 1.00 = US$ 0.01473
                       US$ 1.00 = Tk. 67.91

                           FISCAL YEAR
                           July 1 to June 30


              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BTCL         Bangladesh Telecommunications Company Limited
BTRC         Bangladesh Telecommunications Regulatory Commissions
BTTB         Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
ccTLD        Country Code Top Level Domain
FM           Financial Management
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GOB          Government of Bangladesh
Government   Government of Bangladesh
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
ICT          Information and Communication Technologies
IDA          International Development Association
I-PRSP       Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
IT           Information Technology
KPI          Key Project Indicators
MOPT         Ministry of Post and Telecommunications
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
NFAP         National Frequency Allocation Plan
PDO          Project Development Objectives
PMC          Project Management Consultants
PSTN         Public Switched Telephone Network
QOS          Quality Of Service
SMMS         Spectrum Management and Monitoring System
TAPP         Technical Assistance Project Proforma
WBG          World Bank Group
WTO          World Trade Organization
XDR/SDR      International Monetary Exchange Special Drawing Rights
      Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero, SARVP
    Country Director: Ellen A. Goldstein, SACBD
     Sector Manager: Philippe Dongier, CITPO
Project Team Leader: Tenzin D. Norbhu, CITPO
   ICR Team Leader: Tenzin D. Norbhu, CITPO
                                      BANGLADESH
                        Telecommunications Technical Assistance Project



                                                     CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 24
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 25
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 27
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 28
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR (unedited) ....................................................... 29
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 36
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 37
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Telecommunications
Country:                Bangladesh              Project Name:             Technical Assistance
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P081849                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-37900
ICR Date:               06/29/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:
                                                                          BANGLADESH
Original Total
                        XDR 6.7M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 6.3M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 6.3M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Bangladesh Telecommunication Regulatory commission
 Ministry of Post and Telecommunications
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/30/2003     Effectiveness:             11/24/2003        11/24/2003
Appraisal:            03/27/2003     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/19/2003     Mid-term Review:           09/25/2005        12/16/2005
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2008        12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower          Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Not Applicable
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Not Applicable
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Telecommunications                                                    100                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Regulation and competition policy                                      50                  80
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization                  50                  20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:          Ellen A. Goldstein                   Frederick Thomas Temple
Sector Manager:            Philippe Dongier                     Pierre A. Guislain
Project Team Leader:       Tenzin Dolma Norbhu                  Rajesh B. Pradhan
ICR Team Leader:           Tenzin Dolma Norbhu
ICR Primary Author:        Siou Chew Kuek


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Improve the performance of the telecommunications sector through establishment of an
institutional and regulatory framework favorable to the competitive provision of
telecommunications infrastructure and services.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                                ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target        Completion or
                                                documents)         Values         Target Years
                  Increase overall telephone penetration from 0.83 % in 2002 to 3.3 percent by end
Indicator 1 :
                  of 2006
Value
quantitative or   0.83                      3.3                12             40%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/02/2002                12/31/2006         06/30/2008     12/31/2009
Comments
                  The targets were exceeded significantly led by growth in the mobile segment.
(incl. %
                  Over 100% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Lines per employee increased from 29 in 2002 to 40 beyond 2006
Value
quantitative or   29                        >40                >80            >80
Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/02/2002                12/31/2006         06/30/2008     12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          100% achievement
achievement)
                New operators to be licensed to provide fixed line local services by December
Indicator 3 :   2005. International long distance segment of market to be opened to
                competition.
                                                                              All segments of the
                                                                              telecommunications
                                                                              market has been
                                           Private operators
Value                                                                         opened to
                                           licensed to provide
quantitative or Private operators licensed                                    competition with
                                           services in
Qualitative)                                                                  new private
                                           Bangladesh.
                                                                              operators providing
                                                                              services in all
                                                                              market segments
Date achieved 02/02/2002                   12/31/2005                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        All market segments are competitive. 100% achievement
achievement)
                Increased private investments in telecommunications sector resulting from
Indicator 4 :
                improved policy and regulatory environment.
Value
quantitative or 330 million USD            4.5 billion USD                    > 4.5 billion USD
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/02/2002                   12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement
achievement)



                                                  iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                approval                      Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                               documents)                      Target Years
                Radio frequency assigned within 15 days of application by end of 2006, for 90%
Indicator 1 :
                of applications
                                           Timeliness of                    80% of all
Value
                                           radio frequency                  applications
(quantitative   No baseline data available
                                           assignment for                   processed within 15
or Qualitative)
                                           selected bands                   days of receipt
Date achieved 02/02/2002                   06/30/2008                       12/31/2009
Comments
                Approximately 75% of all spectrum assignment data has been colllected and
(incl. %
                entered into database. 80% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Spectrum re-farming for mobile spectrum completed.
                                                                            Spectrum refarming
                                           Spectrum made                    completed and
Value                                      available to                     additional spectrum
(quantitative   No baseline data available operators for 2G,                awarded to
or Qualitative)                            3G and other new                 operators in 2008.
                                           services                         Wimax spectrum
                                                                            awarded.
Date achieved 02/02/2002                   12/31/2009                       12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        3G spectrum identified.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                             IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     07/15/2003          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     10/15/2003          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     03/04/2004          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     0.26
  4     06/10/2004          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     0.26
  5     08/26/2004          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     0.27
  6     11/11/2004          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     0.28
  7     04/15/2005          Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory              0.44
  8     07/13/2005          Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory              0.53
                                                          Moderately
  9     01/05/2006    Moderately Satisfactory                                            0.98
                                                        Unsatisfactory
                                                          Moderately
 10     09/01/2006    Moderately Satisfactory                                            1.63
                                                        Unsatisfactory
 11     10/13/2006          Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory             1.63



                                                iv
 12    03/26/2007         Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   1.82
 13    11/28/2007         Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   3.40
 14    06/11/2008         Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   3.50
 15    11/03/2008         Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   5.52
 16    04/17/2009         Satisfactory           Satisfactory          8.37
 17    10/02/2009         Satisfactory           Satisfactory          8.58


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Sector Background

The performance of the Bangladesh telecommunications sector had fallen far short of its
potential, and remained a significant constraint to economic growth at the time of project
appraisal in 2003. The main sector issues at appraisal were classified under two broad
categories:

  i.   Poor sector performance: Despite being the first country in the region to license
       private operators to provide services in 1989, Bangladesh lagged behind all
       countries in the South Asia region both in the coverage and quality of
       telecommunications services; and

 ii.   Weak competition and private investment environment: There were inadequate
       incentives for high levels of private investment to take place due to the (i) lack of
       separation between policy and operational roles of Government; (ii) limited
       competition in various market segments; and (iii) limited capacity of the regulator,
       Bangladesh Telecommunications Regulatory Commission (BTRC).

The Government had undertaken several initiatives before 2003 to reform the
telecommunications sector, including approving the National Telecommunications Policy
1998 and Bangladesh Telecommunications Act 2001 and establishing the sector regulator,
BTRC in 2002. These initiatives and actions were clear indications of the Government's
commitment to reform the telecommunications sector.

However, Bangladesh needed to undertake comprehensive sector reforms if it was to
improve overall sector performance and reach the level of growth that was required to
improve access and, subsequently, socioeconomic development in the country. The
Government had realized this and had begun implementing reforms, and requested a
number of donors for assistance. As there was strong Government commitment and
willingness to undertake reforms, it was important for support to be provided in a timely
manner.

The Government recognized the importance of open competition and private sector
investment supported by a stable and transparent regulatory environment to achieve this.
The Government set out to address key regulatory issues such as interconnection and
licensing which were thwarting sector growth. Initial technical assistance support was
provided through the Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF).

Consequently, IDA support provided technical assistance resources to the Ministry of
Post and Telecommunications (MOPT) and BTRC to (i) separate the policy and




                                            1
operational role of the Government through restructuring of BTTB; (2) strengthen the
policy function of MOPT; (3) strengthen BTRC and (4) improve spectrum management.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The overall PDO was to improve the performance of Bangladesh's telecommunications
sector through strengthening elements of the policy, institutional, and regulatory
framework in order to promote the competitive provision of telecommunications
infrastructure and services. The specific objectives were to:

   i.   Separate the policy and operational roles of the Government in the sector by
        restructuring the Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board (BTTB) to operate
        on a commercial basis;
  ii.   Strengthen the policy function of the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications
        (MOPT); and
 iii.   Strengthen the regulatory capacity of the Bangladesh Telecommunication
        Regulatory Commission (BTRC).

The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) were:

   i.   Increased overall telephone penetration from 0.83 percent in 2002 to 3.3 percent
        by end of 2006.
  ii.   BTTB restructured by end of 2004.
 iii.   BTTB or its successor company's lines per employee increased from 29 in 2002 to
        40 by end 2006.
 iv.    BTTB or its successor company awarded a pro-competitive license by BTRC by
        end of 2004.
  v.    Telecommunications Policy of 1998 reviewed and new policy announced by end
        2005.
 vi.    Universal access policy adopted by GOB by end 2005.
vii.    Transparent licensing and regulatory regime and clear rules of business by end
        2004.
viii.   New operators licensed to provide fixed-line local and domestic long distance
        services by end of 2005.
 ix.    Rebalancing of sector tariffs by end of 2006.
  x.    Radio frequency assigned within 15 days of application by end of 2006, for 90
        percent of applications.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO and KPIs were not revised as it remained relevant throughout the project.
However, the KPI targets for overall telephone penetration rate and number of lines per
employee had to be revised significantly upwards during mid-term review due to the
phenomenal growth of the sector (especially due to mobile growth) during the project


                                            2
period. Hence they were increased respectively from 3.3% to 12%, and 40 to 80 lines per
employee.

The project was designed in 2003 when emphasis on measuring results in technical
assistance projects was not as well defined as after the push for the Results Agenda
(which started after 2006). The KPIs as originally designed were, therefore, more output-
oriented. During project implementation additional indicators were added, with a view to
better monitor sector performance especially in the area of investments in the sector,
reflecting project activities related to improving the sector's policy and regulatory
environment.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

As this was a sector-wide project, the primary target group was the Bangladeshi
population as a whole who would benefit from the increased availability, affordability,
and quality of traditional and modern telecommunication services.

The capacity building components were expected to bring improvements in sector
governance, competition, and liberalization. This would expand and improve
telecommunications services and in turn, create opportunities to enhance the lives of the
people and contribute to economic development through the timely delivery of
information. The capacity building and spectrum management component would provide
the telecommunications industry with an enabling framework for doing business.

The secondary beneficiaries would include the large non-resident Bangladeshi
community who have benefitted from improved efficiency and affordability of
communication services to Bangladesh. In addition, the country's IT industry and other
businesses will benefit from lower costs and the availability of a greater variety of value
added services, as they increasingly depend upon communications services to be
competitive.

1.5 Original Components

The project as approved had two main components: (i) Separation of MOPT's Policy and
Operational Roles; and (ii) BTRC strengthening. The project was estimated at $11.11
million with proposed IDA financing of $9.12 million; and cost breakdowns are provided
in the table below:




                                             3
The summarized components were as follows:

1.    MOPT Component: The main objective of this component was to separate the
      policy and operational roles of the Government. This was to be achieved through:

      a. Restructuring the Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board (BTTB):
         Technical assistance would be provided to implement BTTB restructuring and
         convert it from a Government board into a company, registered under the
         Company's Act. This included: (i) reexamining Ordinance XII of 1979 that
         established BTTB; (ii) allocation of asset and liabilities as they were reflected
         as Government property; (iii) financial audit and creation of opening financial
         statements; (iv) conducting a cost-based tariff study; and (v) the development
         of a business plan and performance contract for BTTB.

      b. Strengthening the policy function in MOPT: Technical assistance support for
         consultancy and training programs to strengthen MOPT's capacity to carry out
         its policy functions. This included: (i) policy review and formulation,
         establishment of processes and procedures for policy monitoring and
         evaluation, and re-examination of Bangladesh's WTO commitments and
         preparation of a new telecommunications offer; (ii) development of a
         universal access strategy; (iii) other studies on policy issues, such as
         convergence, market structure, and competition; (iv) capacity building and
         professional development through in-country, on-the-job and external training
         programs; and (v) procurement of equipment and systems to facilitate
         information sharing and dissemination, within and outside of MOPT.

      c. Strengthening project management: Limited support to procure services of
         local project management consultants in order to strengthen MOPT's capacity
         to manage and implement the project.

b.    BTRC Component: The objective of this second component was to strengthen
      BTRC's capacity to effectively regulate a multi-operator environment and ensure
      a level playing field for all operators. Support under this component included:




                                           4
       a. Strengthening regulatory capacity: Technical assistance support to: (i) develop
          and implement credible regulations in the areas of tariff reform, spectrum
          management, licensing, fair competition, universal access, interconnection,
          carrier performance monitoring, dispute settlement, benchmarking and others;
          (ii) licensing new operators and drafting new pro-competitive licenses for
          BTTB and its subsidiaries; (iii) capacity building and professional
          development through in-country, on-the-job and external training programs;
          and (iv) establishing adequate tools and facilities for information gathering,
          dissemination and sharing, including a library, local area network,
          management information system and website development. In addition,
          support would be provided to BTRC to carry out important studies on issues,
          such as country code top level domain (ccTLD) administration and
          convergence.

       b. Strengthening spectrum management: Support for strengthening BTRC's
          spectrum management function to: (i) assist in reviewing and rationalizing
          spectrum use, including development of a spectrum allocation plan and a
          database of spectrum use; (ii) develop a spectrum pricing policy; and (iii) train
          BTRC staff in addressing spectrum management and monitoring issues.
          BTRC would also be provided assistance to procure and implement a
          Spectrum Management and Monitoring System (SMMS) so that it would have
          the tools to effectively manage the radio spectrum.

1.6 Revised Components

There were no significant revisions of the components.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

The project closing date was extended once for a total of eighteen months - from June 30,
2008 to December 30, 2009, in order to allow for completion of key project activities,
including the installation and commissioning of the SMMS. The amount of US$ funds
available under the project was also increased to US$10.02 million from US$ 9.12
million in 2008 due to the devaluation of the US dollar (SDR 6.7 million equivalent).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Background analysis, lessons incorporated, and rationale for Bank's intervention

The project was well aligned with the World Bank's 2001 Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) objective of accelerating and broadening private sector-led growth by supporting
governmental efforts to remove structural impediments and establish a conducive
environment for private investment. It also supported the Government's Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) pillar of accelerating pro-poor growth, through



                                            5
substantial expansion of the capacity and quality of infrastructure services, including
telecommunications.

It also took into account the government's commitment to reforms and concrete actions
in the sector, such as parliamentary approval of the Bangladesh Telecommunications Act
in 2001, establishment of BTRC as the sector regulator in 2002 and adoption of the
National Telecommunications Policy in 1998.

The project was also consistent with the World Bank Group's ICT Sector Strategy (April
2002) which called for: (i) completing telecommunications sector reform in countries that
have not undergone sector restructuring; (ii) supporting the establishment of clear, stable,
and transparent regulatory regimes and building client country regulatory capacity; and
(iii) promoting private sector leadership in extending the reach of ICT.

Lessons from the Bank's earlier operations were taken into account and turned out to be
highly relevant for the project ­ including the fact that newly-established regulatory
agencies are frequently overwhelmed; need for a clear and predictable regulatory
framework to encourage investments; and need for speed in the telecommunications
sector (thus, the need for a project that is strategic, focused and simple to administer).

Project Design

The overall project design was straightforward and uncomplicated. Strengths included a
simple and clear component structure and standardized implementation arrangements.

The objectives were also described with sufficient clarity. They were also realistic and
important for the country because they were fully aligned with and supported the
Government's immediate objectives. Hence, there was borrower buy-in for the project
throughout the design phase, as the objectives were part of the Government's stated
mandate.

The two main components were also adequately designed to support the project's
objectives as they were relevant, multi-dimensional, and holistic in its approach. The
project was also well organized in terms of structure. The borrower's project
implementing agencies were limited to the main players in the sector, with MOPT as
policy maker and BTRC as regulator. The multiple activities under the two main
components were well aligned with each agency's mandate and capabilities at the time of
project appraisal.

At the time of project preparation, it was mutually decided not to establish a separate
project implementation unit given the relatively simple design of the project and the fact
that most project activities were included in the regular work program of the
implementing agencies. The project made provisions for Project Management
Consultants (PMC) to support MOPT and a Project Implementation Specialist (PIS) at
BTRC to assist with project implementation issues.




                                             6
Assessment of risks and mitigation measures

The assessment of risks at the time of appraisal was satisfactory. Most of the risks and
mitigations were identified and assessed correctly, e.g. the BTTB risks was correctly
identified as major, although the mitigation options turned out to be insufficient.

2.2 Implementation

The project became effective in November 2003 and was implemented during a period of
significant political transitions. There were three different governments during this
period.

The project got off to a relatively slow start, with delays in the procurement of services of
the PMC and PIS. During implementation, insufficient human resources at the
implementing agencies posed a major challenge. The efficacy of the PMC was very
limited as staff within the Ministry was unable to dedicate time to guide project
implementation activities. The fact that the project did not have a separate
implementation unit, nor a dedicated project director meant that there was a lack of
dedicated and incentivized staff to support implementation at MOPT. The Joint
Secretary also served as Project Director. At BTRC, key positions were not fully filled
during the first years of the project, and there were insufficient staff to support
implementation initially.

Frequent change in personnel at both the MOPT and BTRC also led to implementation
delays. There were numerous changes of the MOPT Secretary, project director and
BTRC Chairman positions during the project period. Further, the positions of key
members of BTRC, both commissioners and officers, were vacant for long periods. These
impacted the implementation in terms of continuity, commitment and pace of progress.

Implementation of two key subcomponents of the project, BTTB restructuring and goods
procurement for spectrum management was delayed significantly. First, there was a
delay in the procurement of consultant services to advice on BTTB restructuring as
approval was required from the Cabinet Purchase Committee. A contract was signed
only in September 2005. Second, although the Government at highest levels had stated
its intention to restructure BTTB into a government-owned company, there was a high
level of labor union resistance to restructuring. When faced with such resistance, there
was insufficient political will to implement the restructuring. The consultants were
prevented from accessing BTTB sites, management, and information and the assignment
was suspended in December 2006. While the consultants had prepared a detailed public
relations, communications and engagement strategy to ensure transparency of the
restructuring process, they were not permitted to share this with all employees of BTTB.
In 2007, the consultants started working once again on the assignment and BTTB was
finally restructured in June 2008. Inordinate delays in contract approval and ensuing
implementation meant that the consultants also had to change personnel on their team, as
experts could not be expected to dedicate their time to a project that was not making
progress.



                                             7
The technical assistance aspects of the spectrum management subcomponent were
implemented on time. However, the procurement of the national radio spectrum
management and monitoring system took longer than originally envisaged due to: (i)
slow recruitment of staff for the spectrum department of BTRC; (ii) delays in acquiring
sites for fixed monitoring stations; and (iii) uncertainty on the final office location of
BTRC headquarters in Dhaka. The implementation of the BTRC component was
expedited as soon as a dedicated BTRC officer was appointed in mid 2007 as the project
director for the project. The system was successfully installed and commissioned and
staff has been permanently recruited to carry out the spectrum management and
monitoring function.

The Government carried out a review of the National Telecommunications Policy and its
consultant developed a draft for Government approval. However, the policy is yet to be
revised in totality. During the term of the caretaker government, the BTRC in 2007
issued an International Long Distance Telecommunications Policy to introduce
competition in the market. Licenses were auctioned for a number of services, including
International Gateway, Internet Exchange and Interconnection Exchange services.
Further, three broadband wireless access licenses were also auctioned. While on the one
hand, competition was introduced, the ILDTS policy fragmented the market further.
Given the significant growth in services, including mobile coverage, it was decided that a
universal access strategy would not be developed under the project.

With a growing mobile market, BTRC proactively addressed quality of service (QOS)
issues and decided to use savings under the project to procure equipment to help it
monitor QOS levels. The World Radio Conference was held in 2007. Thereafter, BTRC
also conducted a second round of review of the National Frequency Allocation Plan
(NFAP) in order to ensure that the NFAP remained relevant given sector developments.

The project's eventual success (especially in implementation of the BTTB restructuring
and strengthening of BTRC) is attributable to a number of key factors:

   i.   An exceptional change in the implementation pace of reforms in 2007 as
        resistance to BTTB's restructuring by labor unions was no longer an issue.

  ii.   The subsequent appointment of key management positions (chairman and
        commissioners) and increase in staff resources and appointment of a dedicated
        project director to support the implementation in BTRC enabled the
        implementation of the largest component of the project for the Spectrum
        Management and Monitoring System (47.3% of total project cost at appraisal).

 iii.   The project's flexible approach to implementation. For example in the BTTB
        restructuring process, the valuation process for assets and liabilities was switched
        to a results-based approach from the comprehensive approach which enabled the
        project to proceed even as labor unions continued to prevent the consultants from
        accessing BTTB sites, management, and information. The consultants' scope of
        work for PMC and restructuring were also adjusted during implementation when



                                              8
         it became obvious that the implementing agencies would not be able to meet
         certain conditions for work to proceed.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design

The design was appropriate and effective. Most of the KPIs have a direct relationship
with the project inputs, e.g. BTTB restructured by end of 2004, and rebalancing of sector
tariffs was done by 2006. Each objective was also sufficiently covered by, at least, one
direct KPI; and key KPIs could be readily measured from national and international
statistics, or published reports of the agencies. However, the KPI target for mobile
penetration rates (3.3 percent by 2006) was exceedingly low, although the underestimate
is understandable given the unexpected growth rates worldwide. Hence, the KPIs were
adjusted during mid-term review to reflect realities. In terms of implementation and
utilization, data was collected appropriately from the sources identified and used for
evaluation purposes as designed, and the key KPIs were used consistently in the Bank's
monitoring reports.

Implementation

Relevant data was collected by various means, and as applicable, for each indicator. The
project relied on data from BTRC and from feedback provided by industry stakeholders.
Over the project period, BTRC also built capacity to better collect and report sector
statistics and today publishes key indicators on its website. During mid-term review of
the project, a number of outcome targets were revised, as some of the targets had already
been met, and others delayed. For example, teledensity targets were increased from those
set at appraisal.

Most of the performance indicators will remain relevant beyond project closing,
especially teledensity, telephone lines per employee, licensing of new operators, and time
to assign radio frequencies - as they are applicable even for highly developed
telecommunication markets.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Compliance. No issues were reported regarding compliance with Bank policy
and procedural requirements. The project components had minimum environmental
implications as there was no need for supporting roads, significant civil works, or power-
supply installations.

Financial Management. The project has largely complied with all fiduciary requirements,
in spite of delays in the submission of annual procurement plan, financial management
reports and audits. Financial management at MOPT was problematic due to lack of staff
resources. There was some staff turnover at the PMC which affected financial


                                            9
management. Project accounting and internal controls were adequate, and the team
provided the needed supervision in fiduciary matters.

Disbursements. Of the original credit of SDR 6.7 million, SDR 0.37 million was
undisbursed and cancelled after closing. A total of SDR 6.33 million or 94.5% of the
credit was fully disbursed.

Procurement. Significant procurement delays took place, especially in the first half of
project implementation. However, timely revisions to the procurement plan took place
and activities were satisfactorily completed.

2.5 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

The project has helped establish key institutional mechanisms, policies, regulations,
guidelines, and systems that will continue to serve the sector after project completion. On
the two largest components of the project, BTTB has been restructured (18.7% of total
project cost) into a corporation (BTCL) and reversal of the status is unlikely, as it has
become increasingly obvious to governments worldwide that they should refrain from
being an operator in the telecommunications sector due to their inability to cope with its
tremendous growth and developments. Given the shrinking market share of BTCL and
significant fragmentation of the Government's telecommunication assets across four
state-owned companies, it is important for Government to rationalize the structure of its
telecommunications assets. The long-term sustainability of BTCL and the establishment
of a truly level playing field require the Government to consider steps beyond
corporatization, including potentially selling a stake to a strategic partner. This would
allow for much needed large investments in the company and bring in commercial
practices that will enable BTCL to become a competitive operator.

The major spectrum management and monitoring system (47.3% of total cost) should
also be sustainable as it has been fully tested and implemented, and BTRC has
regularized trained technical personnel as staff to support ongoing operations. The
management and monitoring tools have equipped the government to better manage
national radio spectrum resources.

Numerous important regulatory instruments developed under the project have also been
approved. Hence, they will continue to be of key importance for sector development in
the foreseeable future as changes to each will require adoption of a similarly
comprehensive consultative process. In particular the regulatory capacity of the BTRC
has improved due to the capacity building activities under the project and related increase
in professional staff within the organization.

However, recently proposed Amendments to the Telecommunications Act of 2001, if
approved, could have a negative impact on sector development. The proposed transfer
of certain regulatory powers such as licensing and tariff-setting from the BTRC to MOPT
could lead to uncertainty in the sector. Sector investment and growth is driven by:(i) the
independence of the regulator; (ii) the transparency of the regulatory process; (iii)
adequate legal processes for regulation; and (iv) clear investment rules applied in a fair


                                            10
and transparent manner. The proposed amendments would lead to a concentration of
policy, regulatory functions and aspects of operations under a single entity, which would
increase uncertainty in the sector. They would also likely have a negative effect on new
investments in the sector, as well as raising the costs of doing business for existing
operators.

Next Phase: Key priority actions for Government to address in the sector include:

   (i)     Improving sector governance by clearly separating the policy and operational
           roles of Government. MOPT, the telecommunications policy maker plays a
           prominent role in the board of the state-owned incumbent BTCL, BSCL and
           Teletalk. Such a role could prevent MOPT from setting policies that promote
           overall sector development and, thus, hinder effective competition in the
           sector, and more importantly, sector performance and growth.
   (ii)    Approve a new forward-looking telecommunications policy that will support
           the implementation of the Government's goals for Digital Bangladesh. The
           policy should also address development of the broadband infrastructure in
           Bangladesh.
   (iii)   Ensure that proposed amendments to sector legislation does not negatively
           impact sector development.
   (iv)    Developing a strategy for leveraging the extensive mobile network for
           improving public service delivery.
   (v)     Further promoting policy and regulatory institutional capacity through the set
           up of a technical policy unit within MOPT, and implementing more market-
           based remuneration packages in BTRC to attract and retain qualified staff.
   (vi)    Rationalize the tax regime for the telecommunications sectors for a more
           effective and efficient sector taxation system, and to expand lower-income
           group's access to telecommunications services.

Priority actions for the Bank would be to support follow-up work to address key
bottlenecks in the sector and leverage the infrastructure developed to date for service
delivery. This could include: (i) technical assistance in the areas of emerging sector issues,
such as convergence; (ii) continued capacity building for policy maker and regulator; (iii)
support for developing a reliable and robust backbone infrastructure; and (iv) technical
assistance and investment support to promote mobile applications, wider Internet use,
eGovernment applications and IT industry development. Follow-on support in the sector
would yield substantial economic and social benefits for the country, especially in the
area of job creation and improved service delivery that has transformative impact for the
poor. The World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for FY2011-2014 recognizes the
importance of leveraging ICT for growth and improved public service delivery. Broader
assistance is foreseen over the next CAS period in supporting the growth of the IT and IT
enabled service industry and implementation of a national electronic identification
program.


3. Assessment of Outcomes


                                             11
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

This was a highly relevant project at the time of its design, and remains equally relevant
at the time of this ICR from various perspectives. The objectives are highly relevant and
important from a country priority perspective as it is needed to ensure continued growth
and competitiveness in a fast-developing economic sector. Continued strengthening and
improvements in these areas are also required for the Government to be able to cope with
the breakneck speeds of development in the sector. However, new policies, regulations,
and institutional mechanisms will also need to be developed for the country to be able to
manage emerging and converging technologies such as broadband, wireless data services,
and mobile-based applications. In addition, sector development is of utmost importance
as the telecommunications industry has become the largest source of investments in the
country (cumulative investments of $4.5 billion since project started). Strengthening
these frameworks is also particularly important at this stage of sector development as the
next major growth area for telecommunications (especially mobile) is amongst the lower
income and rural communities, and will have significantly higher digital divide and
poverty reduction implications.

These objectives also remain highly relevant in the current global landscape because
sector development worldwide requires the same policy, and regulatory and institutional
framework to be put in place for Bangladesh to manage emerging and converging
technologies, and to provide an enabling environment to compete and attract investments
from international investors. In addition, the objectives are highly relevant with regard to
the Bank's proposed CAS for FY11-14, as access to telecommunications is a proven
means to empower the poor.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project has largely achieved its overall PDO of strengthening of the regulatory and
institutional framework for promoting competitive provision of telecommunications
infrastructure and services. Sector performance has improved significantly.

Approximately 98 percent of the population is now covered by at least one mobile
telephone network, and market penetration of telephony is equivalent to 40 percent of the
population. Tariffs have also fallen significantly, and jobs created--directly or
indirectly--by increased investment and activity in the telecommunications industry.

For example, the BTTB has been corporatized, the National Frequency Allocation Plan
has been revised twice, and systems are in place to ensure proper management of the
radio spectrum. In addition, teledensity stands at approximately 40 percent1 currently
compared to 0.83 percent at appraisal, competition has been introduced into all market
segments, and sector tariffs have fallen significantly due to competition. However the
project has only achieved modest strengthening of the policy framework and the


1
    Based on BTRC data: http://www.btrc.gov.bd


                                                 12
institutional framework still does not allow for full separation of the operational and
policy roles of the Government.

The details on the outputs and outcomes, and their causal links are provided in Annex 2;
and the following describes the achievement of specific PDOs:

   i.   Separate the policy and operational roles of the Government in the sector by
        restructuring the BTTB to operate on a commercial basis: The project has
        significantly achieved this objective. This is the most important (and most
        challenging) objective as it represents the culmination of efforts since the 1998
        National Telecommunications Policy to corporatize BTTB and was achieved
        despite strong resistance by the labor unions. However, the objective is not fully
        achieved as the restructured BTCL has a board headed and composed of
        Government officials.

  ii.   Strengthen the policy function of the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications
        (MOPT): The project has only been modestly successful in achieving this PDO as
        the policy function has only been strengthened to a limited extent. The policy
        review, staff training, and website of MOPT has been completed, although key
        policies included in the KPIs were not fully completed. However this objective is
        of relatively lower importance as the general policy framework is in place (e.g.
        National Telecommunications Policy of 1998), albeit outdated, and are not
        expected to have excessive adverse impact on sector performance.

 iii.   Strengthen the regulatory capacity of the Bangladesh Telecommunication
        Regulatory Commission (BTRC): The project significantly achieved this objective
        as most of the regulatory instruments and systems have been delivered. This
        includes interconnection regulations, spectrum policy, licensing framework, and
        quality of services. In addition, the important spectrum management and
        monitoring system (representing 47.3 percent of total project cost at appraisal) is
        commissioned and fully operational, enabling BTRC to carry out this major
        regulatory function. This objective is of significant importance as the project has
        contributed significantly to building a credible and functional regulatory
        framework from scratch. There was a lack of institutional credibility, key
        regulations, and enforcement mechanisms that were stifling sector competition to
        a large extent when the project started. BTRC was also a young organization that
        faced simultaneous challenges in institutional building, establishing the regulatory
        regime, and developing regulatory credibility.

3.3 Efficiency

Economic analysis was not conducted at appraisal due to the relatively small size (SDR
6.7 million) and technical assistance nature of the project. However, a quick estimate of
the economic impact was developed based on readily available existing studies (refer to
Annex 4 for detailed analysis) to provide a sense of the efficiency of this project.
Specifically, the analysis relies on a commonly-cited global study that has shown that
every 10 percent increase in mobile penetration rates is associated with a 0.59 percent


                                             13
increase in GDP, and another study in India which finds an associated increased of 1.2
percent.

Other available measures also provide a gauge of the project's efficiency2. During the
project period:

      i.   Average tariff decreased from $0.06 (Jan 2004) to $0.01 (Dec 2009);
     ii.   Mobile operators' contribution to Government revenue has increased from 2.4
           percent (in 2003-04) to 8.0 percent (2008-09);
    iii.   Investments by mobile operators has increased from $7 million in 2002, to $65
           million per year on average since the project started; and
    iv.    Cumulative investments are $4.5 billion since 2003.

While these sector developments cannot be fully attributed to the project due to the rapid
pace of developments worldwide, nevertheless, the project supported much needed
technical assistance to establish the required regulatory framework to enable sector
growth and development.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The rating is satisfactory as the project has been relevant throughout its period and
continues to be so at the time of the ICR. In addition, it has achieved its major PDOs of
strengthening the institutional and regulatory framework, and the economic analysis and
measures suggest a highly efficient project. However, there were minor shortcomings due
to Government ownership and management of BTCL, and the limited outcomes achieved
at the policy level with MOPT.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Access to quality communications services is an important component of the overall
poverty reduction strategy for most developing countries. The expansion of the
telecommunications industry has created new economic activities. It also represents an
improved investment climate. The project is likely to have good impact on poverty
reduction as the penetration rate for telecommunications is increasing. The project has
also provided a strengthened institutional and governance framework for the expansion of
telecommunications services (especially mobile phone) to the poorest section of the
population, as the market is expected to expand services to these groups for their next
stage of growth. The gender and social development impacts are also limited as this is
largely a technical assistance project.



2
 All figures that follow are from BTRC. 2010. Bangladesh Telecommunications Sector Evolution (1996 ­
2010). Presentation by BTRC Chairman. 2010.


                                                 14
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The intended institutional change and strengthening has been significantly achieved. The
institutional framework has been improved due to BTTB's restructuring into a
corporation; and BTRC has significantly increased its regulatory capacity due to the
development of key regulations, and provisions of systems for managing spectrum and
quality of services. However, there had only been modest strengthening of MOPT's
policy functions as key activities were not completed or implemented.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Nil.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

The risk to development outcome is substantial as key sustainability risk exists:


 i. The revised National Telecommunications Policy has not yet been approved and
    announced; hence, it might be challenging for the Government to cope with the rapid
    pace of technological and market developments in the years ahead. However, the
    impact is not expected to be detrimental as the policy of 1998 still exists.

ii. There is still a need for strengthening the technical capacity of MOPT for policy-
    making, and the transfer of civil service staff as per Government norms will be a
    continued hindrance unless a stable and core technical unit is established.

iii. Existing taxes pose a particular challenge to the continued expansion of
     telecommunication services in Bangladesh. The SIM and handset taxes are a
     particular challenge for the sector as operators seek to reach the lower-income groups
     for their next stage of growth.

iv. The proposed amendments to the Telecommunications Act could negatively impact
    sector development by creating uncertainty in the sector.




                                             15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The Bank has developed this project appropriately to maximize the window of
opportunity for sector reforms. The project was appraised just two years after BTRC was
established; hence, there was a unique opportunity to assist in strengthening a critical
regulatory agency. In addition, the major sector development issues were well identified
and appropriate components were put in place to address each of these key issues.

The components and sub-components were well designed as they were directly linked
with the PDOs. However, the design was probably overambitious on hindsight as
BTTB's restructuring was completed only in 2008 instead of 2004. MOPT's National
Telecommunications Policy had also not been approved and announced to date, and
BTRC had a slow start on key activities such as the procurement of the spectrum
management and monitoring equipment. In addition, the design did not prove sufficient
to address the high level of resistance encountered eventually for BTTB's restructuring,
and to address the continued slow pace of progress on MOPT's policy sub-component. A
dedicated project director at MOPT and BTRC could have led to smoother
implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The supervision team was proactive in identification and resolution of threats across the
project's lifespan and components, as well as highly focused on the PDOs. For instance,
on the important task of auditing and accounting for BTTB, the team recognized in
advance the inability of the counterparts to provide required support and information as
contracted for the consultants to complete the work. Hence, the team raised the issue and
proposed for the expansion of the consultant's scope to be revised, as the restructuring
would not be possible, otherwise.

The team also provided more than adequate supervisory inputs and processes. The
supervision was precise as it focused on major issues for implementation, and was highly
result-oriented as feasible solutions and/or clear steps forward for each issue was
discussed with the implementing counterparts. The team was also firm in supervision, but
flexible when required. For example, the team constantly reminded MOPT of its
responsibility for the BTTB restructuring agenda instead of the PMC, and exercised
flexibility by accepting a results-based approach when the originally envisaged full
comprehensive approach would have jeopardized the completion of this task.

The team was also focused on wider development outcomes for the country. Hence,
significant sector dialogue was carried out on issues outside the scope of the project, such
as sector taxation and convergence as they have longer-term development impact. The


                                            16
quality of supervision was also appreciated by the counterparts in the implementing
agencies.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory due to quality design of the
components at entry and satisfactory quality of supervision provided by the team.
However, it is not rated satisfactory as some of the objectives were over ambitious and
the target dates at entry could have been more realistic. The mitigation measures to
overcome resistance to BTTB restructuring could have been more concrete, and project's
design should have ensured a sufficient level of human resources at the implementing
agencies to support its implementation.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government remained committed to developing the telecommunications sector
throughout the project. This helped significantly in driving the project forward in spite of
the implementation issues encountered. However, this commitment was also expected
given the obvious and tremendous pace of sector developments worldwide.

The Government could have shown greater political will to implement reforms. That
would have speeded up BTTB's restructuring significantly as labor union resistance was
the major bottleneck, and enabled the approval of the new national telecommunications
policy which has already been drafted. In addition, it could have been more responsive in
appointing officials to key management positions and providing sufficient staff for
MOPT and BTRC as their actions were not timely in spite of numerous Bank requests.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

Implementing Agency                            Performance
1. MOPT                                        Moderately Satisfactory
2. BTRC                                        Satisfactory

The MOPT's performance was moderately satisfactory as the level of capacity and
ownership was insufficient. The capacity issue could partly be attributed to project design
issues as there were no full-time project staff allocated, and no incentive structure for the
staff taking up additional project activities in addition to their regular duties.

BTRC's performance was satisfactory as the agency had a slow start but improved
tremendously in terms of capacity over the project period. It started as a young
organization with limited capacity, but has become an agency that appears to have higher
technical capacity at the project's end.



                                             17
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Borrower remained committed to sector development and managed to deliver on two
of the most important components in spite of challenging political and capacity issues.
However, the lack of political will caused substantial delays in restructuring BTTB, and
the slow response in appointment of key staff and provision of adequate resources to the
implementing agencies caused substantial implementation delays.

6. Lessons Learned

Relatively small, but strategic and opportunistic projects can have significant
development impact: This project was relatively small from an investment perspective,
but it was very opportunistic and focused as it was specifically designed to take
advantage of the high-level political will to undertake telecom sector reforms, and to
support the newly-established regulatory agency which needed significant strengthening.
This strategic and opportunistic approach appears to have contributed significantly to the
achievement sector reforms as it supported the corporatization of BTTB into BTCL, and
built a credible and functional regulatory agency from the growth up. In addition, this
focused approach allowed the project to contribute at a critical time of tremendous sector
growth ­ as it provided input for the country outcomes associated with increased GDP
growth of between 1.6 to 3.3 percent per year, and increases in private sector investments
from an average of US$ 7 million in 2002 to US$ 65 million per year.


Telecommunications projects are highly efficient in general. This is mainly because they
support development of a sector that is growing at breakneck speeds across the globe.
Hence, a project with expected cumulative investment of US$ 11.11 million was able to
contribute to the additional GDP of US$ 1.2 to US$ 2.6 billion at the year of completion.

Projects should ensure sufficient resources for implementation before commencement:
The initial delays and risks to project outcomes could be reasonably attributed to the lack
of sufficient resources at the implementing agencies when the project started. Hence, the
credit could have required the Government to allocate sufficient staff resources at the
implementing agencies, and the project design should have provisioned for full-time and
incentivized staff for implementation. MOPT also tried to address this issue during
implementation by submitting an amended TAPP for additional resources and having its
staff trained under the project. However, that was too late at this stage as it had already
caused long delays and issues with implementation. The implementation design was also
inadequate as it was recognized during appraisal that both agencies have limited
experiences in managing and implementing Bank projects.

Political will at the highest level is not necessarily sufficient for reforms, as political
support is also required at the lower bureaucratic level: The project seized the
opportunity of high-level political will to restructure BTTB, but encountered an
unexpectedly high level of resistance from BTTB's management and labor unions (which



                                            18
went to the extent of blocking consultants' access to management and information, and
forming a "Save BTTB" movement). Hence, the project should also have accounted for
the level of political resistance at the lower levels, and taken steps during project
preparation to better gauge their level of resistance and political influence against
restructuring.

Concrete incentives have to be provided to address political economy issues: None of the
risk mitigation measures for addressing BTTB's management and labor unions'
resistance worked, and this is probably because these measures to engage the labor
unions in dialogues, conduct public relation campaigns, and arrange overseas study trips
did not provide any concrete incentives for BTTB staff to support the restructuring. It
could have been reasonably foreseen that the restructuring would have livelihood
implications for the existing management staff of BTTB; hence, concrete incentives
should have been designed into the project to mitigate this major risk. These could have
been in the form of an acceptable compensation plan, and/or early Government assurance
of redeployment into other agencies for affected staff.

A structured and methodological approach for analyzing political economy issues could
produce more realistic project objectives and implementation time frames: The objective
of the restructuring of BTTB might not have been achieved if not for the term of the
caretaker government. It was also targeted for completion by end-2004, only one-and-a-
half years after project signing, but BTTB was finally restructured in 2008, or about five
years after project signing. The new national telecommunication policy was to be
announced by 2005; it has, however, not been approved at the time of ICR. While the
ambitious objectives and time-bound targets might have been set due to the seemingly
supportive context at the time of appraisal, they appear highly unrealistic on hindsight. It
is likely that political will was overestimated, and/or political resistance was
underestimated. Hence, the use of methodological approaches such as political economy
and/or stakeholder analysis could have provided more realistic contextual basis for future
projects.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The "poor project design" was the major issue raised by MOPT, and this appears to refer
to the absence of a dedicated project team in the implementation agencies, as the lack of
"proper support personnel" resulted in inefficient implementation. There was no full-time
project staff provided for, nor were there incentives for staff who take on the additional
responsibilities of this project in addition to their regular duties.


(b) Cofinanciers

Nil.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders


                                             19
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Nil.




                                           20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                      Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                       Percentage of
          Components                                    Estimate
                                  (US$ millions)                          Appraisal
                                                     (US$ millions)
1. MOPT COMPONENT                         3.56               3.87           109%
 (A) BTTB RESTRUCTURING                   1.80               2.98           165%
 (B) STRENGTHENING
                                          1.35               0.70            52%
MOPT'S POLICY FUNCTIONS
 (C) STRENGTHENING
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                        0.41               0.29            70%
CAPACITY
2. BTRC COMPONENT                         6.23               6.74           108%
 (A) STRENGTHENING
REGULATORY CAPACITY OF                    1.77               1.58            90%
BTRC
 (B) SPECTRUM
MANAGEMENT AND                            4.56               5.16           113%
MONITORING SYSTEM

            Total Baseline Cost           9.79              10.61
Physical Contingencies
                                          0.31               0.00
Price Contingencies
                                          1.01               0.00
             Total Project Costs         11.11              10.61
Front-end fee PPF                         0.00               0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.00               0.00
     Total Financing Required            11.11              10.61




(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal   Actual/Latest Percentage
                                     Type of
        Source of Funds                             Estimate       Estimate       of
                                   Cofinancing
                                                 (US$ millions) (US$ millions) Appraisal
Borrower                                         1.99          0.00            43%
International Development
                                                 9.12         9.76            107%
Association (IDA)




                                            21
     Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Outputs               Actual Outputs                         Immediate Outcome              Causal Link
(Extracted from       (Based on supervision and
PAD)                  Government documents)
MOPT Component
BTTB restructured     Strategy, business plan,               BTTB restructured into a       Outputs provided key
                      organization and corporate             fully Government-owned         organizational and technical
                      structure developed by 2007            limited liability company,     basis for restructuring to a
                                                             BTCL on July 1, 2008.          significant extent, and
                      Audit and accounting; and                                             reduced political resistance
                      valuation of assets and liabilities    BTCL Board of Directors        from BTTB staff and unions
                      of BTTB completed by 2008              appointed by June 2008.        to a moderate extent.
                                                                                            Extensive policy dialogue
                      Communications and public                                             provided added but
                      relations activities conducted for                                    moderate impetus for a
                      BTTB staff and unions.                                                difficult political process.
Strengthened policy                                          Policy function strengthened   Expert review and advice
function              Sector review and policy advice        to moderate degree.            increased MOPT awareness
                      provided on open access to                                            of priority policy issues.
                      submarine cable facilities,                                           Training increased staff
                      introduction of VOIP services,                                        capacity to better understand
                      limited mobility, and broadband                                       telecom sector issues. The
                      services, etc.                                                        telecommunications policy
                                                                                            is a major policy instrument
                      Telecommunications policy                                             that has been reviewed and
                      reviewed and revised policy                                           revised although it has yet
                      developed.                                                            been approved and
                                                                                            announced.
                      Training of staff completed in
                      2009. 51 officers were trained
                      on a variety of policy issues.

                      Project management consultants
                      provided extensive organization
                      support to revise TAPP, seek
                      additional project staff, and
                      monitor implementation.

                      MOPT website developed.
BTRC Component




                                                            22
Strengthened           Interconnection regulations         Significantly strengthened   Outputs provided extensive
capacity to regulate   gazetted and implemented in         capacity to regulate.        regulatory basis for BTRC to
the sector             2004.                                                            carry out its functions. These
                                                                                        include the regulations on
                       Licensing regulations that                                       interconnection; tariffs and
                       provided framework for award                                     pricing; quality of service;
                       and grant of licenses announced                                  and frequency and spectrum
                       in 2004.                                                         allocation, pricing. In
                                                                                        addition, key systems and
                       Unified licensing framework                                      equipment are have enabled
                       developed but not implemented                                    the management and
                       pending detailed consultation                                    monitoring of quality of
                       process                                                          service and spectrum.
                                                                                        Training also increased the
                       Tariff analysis conducted and                                    relevant staff's technical
                       simplified cost model developed                                  capacity in regulation.
                       for tariff regime.
                                                                                        Public consultation instituted
                       Review and recommendations                                       into the decision making
                       for overall regulatory and                                       process.
                       unified licensing regime
                       provided.
                                                           Significantly improved       Key outputs such as
                       Expert provided advice on wide
                                                           competitive provision of     licensing regulations and
                       ranging technical and economic
                                                           services. All market         framework, interconnection,
                       regulatory issues.
                                                           segments opened to           tariff cost models, etc.;
                                                           competition. Licenses were   enabled the award of new
                       National frequency allocation
                                                           rationalized.                licenses and ensuring a fair
                       plan, spectrum pricing policy,
                                                                                        level of competition in
                       and assignment processes and
                                                                                        service provision.
                       procedures developed

                       Spectrum management and
                       monitoring equipment fully
                       commissioned and operational;
                       and staff have been trained to
                       operate and manage the system

                       Quality of service test drive
                       system commissioned by 2009,
                       and the associated regulations
                       effective by 2010

                       Training completed for all
                       BTRC officers (100 participants)
                       on issues ranging across                                         Project dialogue provided
                       regulatory issues such as           36 staff recruited.          significant impetus for
                       spectrum management and                                          appointing commissioners
                       monitoring, cost modeling,                                       and increasing BTRC's staff
                       interconnection, technology                                      positions.
                       trends and regulatory policy.




                                                          23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

There had been numerous studies over the decades on the economic impact of increased
access to telecommunications services on GDP. More recently, there were various studies
on the impact of increased mobile phone penetration on GDP. For example, a notable
global study found that a 10% increase in mobile phone penetration in developing
countries is associated with a 0.59% increase in GDP3 ("Study A"). In addition, a
separate study has found that a 10% increase is associated with a 1.2% increase in GDP
in India4 ("Study B"). Assuming that these studies are reflective of the impact of mobile
penetration rates on GDP in Bangladesh, the following table presents the calculations:

    Mobile Penetration Rate at Appraisal                                 0.40%
    Mobile Penetration Rate at Completion                                27.90%
     Increase in Mobile Penetration Rate                                 27.50%
    Impact of 10% Increase in Mobile Penetration Rate on GDP
     Study A (Global)                                                     0.59
     Study B (India)                                                      1.20
    % Increase in Bangladesh's GDP due to 27.5% increase in Mobile
    Penetration Rates
     Study A (Global)                                                                 1.62%
     Study B (India)                                                                  3.30%
    GDP of Bangladesh (Current US$, 2008)                                         $79,554,350,678
    US$ Increase in GDP
     Study A (Global)                                                             $1,290,769,340
      Study B (India)                                                             $2,625,293,572
    Total Project Cost (at appraisal) as Percentage of Increase in GDP
    (in US$)
     Study A (Global)                                                                 0.86%
     Study B (India)                                                                  0.42%

The table shows that the increase in Bangladesh's mobile penetration rates is associated
with a GDP increase of 1.62 percent (or US$ 1.3 billion) to 3.3 percent (or US$ 2.6
billion) over the project period. While the increase could not be fully attributed to the
project due to the phenomenal growth of mobile penetration rates worldwide, the
project's expected cost of US$ 11.11 million during appraisal is less than 1 percent of the
increase in GDP at the completion year, under either Study A or B (0.86 percent or 0.42
percent, respectively). This represents extremely low level of investment over the total
project period for such a significant return per year, which suggests that the project is
highly efficient based simply on this single consideration.



3
  Leonard Waverman, M. Meschi and M. Fuss. 2005. "The impact of telecommunications on economic
growth in developing countries". Number 3. The Vodafone Policy Paper Series.
4
  Rajat Kathuria, M. Uppal and Mamta. 2009. "An econometric analysis of the impact of mobile". Number
9. The Vodafone Policy Paper Series: Moving the debate forward.


                                                       24
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
           Names                         Title               Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Rajesh B. Pradhan          Lead Financial Analyst             CITPO Task Team Leader
                                                                    Telecommunications
Tenzin D. Norbhu           Senior ICT Policy Specialist       CITPO
                                                                    Regulations
                           Senior Financial Management              Financial
Burhanuddin Ahmed                                            SARFM
                           Specialist                               Management
                                                                    Private Sector
G. M. Khurshid Alam        Senior Private Sector Development SASFP
                                                                    Development
Kashimra Daruwalla         Senior Procurement Specialist      CITPO Procurement
Kishor Uprety              Senior Legal Counsel              LEGMS Counsel
Chau-Ching Shen            Senior Finance Officer            LOADM Disbursements
Sima Fishman               Consultant                         CITPO Policy
Doyle Gallegos             Consultant                         CITPO Policy
David Satola               Senior Legal Counsel              LEGOP Legal
Supervision/ICR
Tenzin D. Norbhu           Senior ICT Policy Specialist      CITPO Task Team Leader
                           Senior Financial Management             Financial
Burhanuddin Ahmed                                            SARFM
                           Specialist                              Management
                                                                   Private Sector
G. M. Khurshid Alam        Senior Private Sector Development SASFP
                                                                   Development
Abud Fazah Mohammad                                                Telecommunications
                           Consultant                        CITPO
Nazmu Choudhury                                                    Regulations
Maria Theresa Cruz         Consultant                        CITPO Program Assistance
Kashmira Daruwalla         Senior Procurement Specialist     CITPO Procurement
                                                                   Telecommunications
Doyle Gallegos             Lead ICT Policy Specialist        CITPO Policy and
                                                                   Regulations
Nusrat Jahan               Consultant                        SARFM Financial Analysis
Siou Chew Kuek             E T Consultant                    CITPO Operations
Rajesh B. Pradhan          Consultant                        CITPO Operations
Aneeka Rahman              Operations Analyst                SASFP Operations
Bridget Rosalind Rosario   Program Assistant                 SACBD Program Assistance
Randeep Sudan              Lead ICT Policy Specialist        CITPO Operations
Rajendra Singh             Senior Regulatory Specialist      CITPO Regulations
                           Senior Financial Management             Financial
Suraiya Zannath                                              SARFM
                           Specialist                              Management
David Satola               Senior Legal Counsel              LEGOP Legal




                                          25
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      US$ Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                      39                       173.46
  FY04                                                                 0.93
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:            39                       174.39
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                      23                       118.65
  FY05                                      23                        95.97
  FY06                                      15                        64.86
  FY07                                      13                        85.58
  FY08                                       9                       100.43
                          Total:            83                       465.49




                                       26
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable.




                                      27
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                   28
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR (Original submission in files)

Summary of MOPT ICR

Introduction

The Telecommunication Technical Assistance Project under the Ministry of Post and
Telecommunications aimed at: (i) strengthening the policy function and Project
Management in the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications; and (ii) restructuring
BTTB into a Public Limited Company. Telecommunication plays a significant role in the
development of all sectors in Bangladesh in that it plays a pivotal role in all economic
activities and the improvement of quality of life. The present project envisaged to
improve the performance of Bangladesh Telecommunication sector through
modernization and rapid expansion of Telecommunication field.

Background

The Ministry of Posts and Telecommunication (MOPT) undertook the assignment to
restructure the Bangladesh Telegraph and Telecommunications Board (BTTB). It was
also leading a high-level task force to recommend options for BTTB restructuring to the
Government of Bangladesh (GOB). The GOB arranged with the World Bank for an IDA
credit to fund technical assistance for: (i) restructuring BTTB into a public limited
company; (ii) strengthening the policy function in the Ministry of Post and
Telecommunications; and (iii) strengthening project management in MOPT.

The project aimed at improving the performance of the Bangladesh telecommunication
sector by establishing a policy institutional framework that encourages improved sector
performance and growth, with increased private participation and investments achieved
through implementation of BTTB's restructuring and strengthening of the policy function
of the MOPT.

Objectives

The key objectives of the project were to restructure BTTB and strengthen the policy
function of MOPT, with a view to improving sector performance.

The objectives of the BTTB restructuring were to: (i) bring about a clear separation of the
Government's role as a policy maker and operator; (ii) help BTTB improve investment,
efficiency and customer orientation, thereby improving sector performance; and (iii)
allow all operator to manage public expenditure accountability in the telecommunications
sector. The objective of strengthening the policy function of MOPT was to increase
capacity within MOPT to establish a policy and institutional framework that encourages
improved sector performance and growth, through increased competition and investments.

Executing Ministry




                                           29
The project was executed and implemented by the Ministry of Post and
Telecommunications, Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh

Major Components of the Project Approved 3rd Budget as per TPP

   Code                 Approved 3rd Revised Budget                     Actual
   Description                                                          Total
                        GoB (FE)        PA (RPA)        Total
   1                    3               4               5
   (a) Revenue
   Component
   Expatriate           8960            193807          202767          202367
   Consultants
   Local                1102            6360            7462            7054
   Consultants
   Project Input        638             -               638             638
   Personnel
   Project Input        -               9522            9522            8612
   Training

   Project Input        3367            -               3367            3512
   Others
   Tax                  34173           -               34173           33207
   SubTotal             48240           209689          257929          255390
   (Revenue
   Component)
   (b) Capital                          -               -               -
   Component
   Project Input        2084            3641            5725            5542
   Equipment
   SubTotal             2084            3641            5725            -
   (Capital
   Component)
   Grand Total          50324           21330           263654          260932
   (a+b)

   A comparative statement between budgeted and actual expenses from FY2003-2004
   for FY2009-2010

   Code                 As per Approved 3rd/1st Revised TPP
   Description


                                        30
                  Cost                                        Actual
                                                              Cumulative
                                                              Total

                  GoB (FE)      PA (RPA)          Total       Total
(a) Revenue
Component
Expatriate        8960          193807            202767      202367
Consultants
Local             1102          6360              7462        7054
Consultants
Project Input     638           -                 638         638
Personnel
Project Input     -             9522              9522        8612
Training

Project Input     3367          -                 3367        3512
Others
Tax/VAT           34173         -                 34173       33207
(Block
Allocation)
SubTotal          48240         209689            257929      255390
(Revenue
Component)
(b) Capital                     -                 -           -
Component
Project Input     2084          3641              5725        5542
Equipment
SubTotal          2084          3641              5725        -
(Capital
Component)
Grand Total       50324         21330             263654      260932
(a+b)


Cost of Project
Project Cost          Total              GoB               PA (RPA)
(Taka in lac)
Original              2270.04            484.86            1785.18
                                                           (137.06)



                                    31
   1st Revised             2296.37                511.19                  1785.18
                                                                          (192.23)
   2nd Revised             2641.35                511.19                  2130.16
                                                                          (192.23)
   3rd Revised             2636.54                503.24                  2133.30


   Implementation Period
                                   Start                         Completion
   Original                        July 2003                     June 2007
   1st Revised                     July 2003                     June 2007
   2nd Revised                     July 2003                     June 2008
   3rd Revised                     July 2003                     December 2009


Difficulties of the project implementation work

The project confronted difficulties from its inception. The principal responsibilities of
managing the project vested on the project director experienced difficulties, as he served
simultaneously as Joint Secretary of the Ministry. Initially, there were two financial
management consultants and one project manager who all had left the project for overall
situation of the project. The project also suffered from the absence of a full-time
accountant from the commencement of the project.

Moreover, the project contract with the consultants (international) was not calculated
correctly in matters of gross and net payments to the consultants. The "VAT and tax"
payment accruing to the consultants was not calculated correctly and neither did the
consultants invoice properly. Although it did not affect their payments as they were paid
"net of taxes", anomaly, nevertheless, arose due to the VAT/tax payment to the NBR
(Ministry of Finance). To effect payment of VAT/tax to the MOF, the consultants should
have invoiced correctly showing the gross value of the contract, clearing indicating the
net after deduction of the VAT/Tax rate application as per fiscal policy. For this reason,
the original contract as regards the calculation of VAT/tax to the consultants should have
been amended before effecting any further payment to them. A separate book written by
the accounts specialist addressed to the project director was passed on Nov. 15, 2007
pointing out the anomaly in the VAT/tax treatment of Detecon International (consultants)
contract for correction. This was discussed in the meeting held in the World Bank
premises and finally acknowledged for correction. Further, BTRC should have continued
to furnish their quarterly inputs of sources of funds and application of funds as per World
Bank pro-forma showing consultant payments, training and goods payments separately
along with the total GOB payments, in place of the present method showing the
statements as underhead salaries, equipment and access to equipment, land, contingency,
stationery, vehicle rent, etc.

Reasons for the Delay of Project Implementation


                                            32
The project was ill designed ­ there was no provision for full-time project director or any
officer in the TPP to work for the project.
     The major work under the project (Restructuring of BTTB) could not start on time
        due to the delayed signing of the agreement (July 14, 2005) with the international
        consulting firm (Detecon International of Germany) as it was approved by the
        purchase committee nine long months after its submission.
     Due to the delayed start, Detecon changed most of their consultant, including the
        team leader proposed in the original proposal.
     Detecon could not accomplish the main component of their assignment (Valuation
        of Assets and Liabilities of BTTB) due to non-availability of access to BTTB sites
        in the face of CBA opposition.
     BTTB restructuring assignment was suspended from December 17, 2006.
        Appointment of the Policy Advisor under the project was delayed due to non-
        availability of appropriate expert in spite of repeated advertisement.
     There was no regular officer in the MOPT to work for the project.


Summary of BTRC ICR

The Strengthening the Regulatory Capacity of BTRC project was under taken to
strengthen the capacity of BTRC. The objectives of the project were also set accordingly.
The project was a successful one as most of the objectives were achieved during project
implementation. However, to derive continuous benefit from the project it is required to
utilize the Spectrum Monitoring and Management System by the trained officers/staff on
a regular basis. The system is very helpful in planning, allocating and monitoring of
spectrum, if utilize properly.

The consultancies were also taken to strengthen regulatory matters of BTRC. In this
regard the National Frequency Allocation Plan, Quality of Service and Unified Licensing
Consultancy Packages can play a very significant role for the development of
Telecommunication Sector of Bangladesh in a multi-operator environment. However, it
would be necessary make adjustments and modifications in the consultant report by
BTRC over time to derive appropriate regulatory guideline by the concerned department
of the Commission.

Drive Test Equipment purchased at the later stage of project implementation. This
equipment may be useful in improving the Quality of Service (QOS) and performance of
the Telecommunication Service Provider.

Project personnel and other related personnel were given training as per TAPP. Through
the training, the regulatory capacity of the personnel significantly improved.

Initially, the project was planned for a four-year (July 2003 to June 2007) duration. Due
to various reasons, the TAPP was revised twice. According to the second revision, the
project was completed on December 31, 2009. During implementation, there were no


                                            33
major problems. However, after the approval of second revised TAPP, the period for the
implementation of a few consultancy packages, e.g., Unified Licensing, as well as that for
the procurement of the Test Drive equipment, was squeezed.

Initially, BTRC personnel was insufficient to kick off the project activity. So, additional
personnel was recruited to implement the project and to receive on-the-job training with
foreign consultants. The employment was on a purely temporarily basis and only for the
duration of project implementation. The on-the-job and foreign trainings came at a
substantial cost without any assurance of being retained in BTRC. As a result, some of
the recruits resigned and went on to find more stable jobs. In this type of project where
the implementation personnel will also be eventually needed for operation and
maintenance, the recruitment process must be clearly spelled out in the project document
so that personnel is assured it will be absorbed and provided for in the revenue budget
even after completion of the project.

An Evaluation of the Performance of the Bank during Evolution and
Implementation of the Project:

The Bank's support and cooperation was excellent. The Bank's supervision mission
extended their full support and quick response to BTRC's queries, correspondences and
requests for Bank's "no-objection". Without their active support, the project would have
been delayed. The Bank's supervision mission also provided necessary guidance and
action plan through its Aide Memoires time to time. BTRC convey its sincere and
heartfelt thanks to the Bank's supervision mission team for their excellent support and
guidance.

The Bank's accounts and loans disbursement team from Chennai, India, also extended
their full cooperation and support in accounts and disbursement matters. BTRC received
quick support and response from them. BTRC is grateful to the Bank for such
cooperation and assistance.

Only one difficulty was faced: to maintain account both in USD and in local currency
(BDT) due to variation of the exchange rate. In the future, the Bank may ask the borrower
to maintain foreign currency expenditure in USD and local currency expenditure in BDT,
i.e., a dual currency account. BTRC submits all expenditures in BDT to the Ministry and
Audit. With variation of exchange rates, the figure for expenditures changes and creates
confusion.

While implementing this type of project where project implementation staff will also be
required for operation, it may be made mandatory for the Borrower to retain the project
staff after completion of the project. This will help the organization to retain the trained
personnel for operation.

Indicating proposed arrangements for future operation of the project and defining
together with the Bank, performance indicators to be used to monitor future
operation and development impact.



                                             34
In the project, six consulting jobs were delivered in the form of reports. Five of them are
already are already being applied by BTRC: (i) NFAP; (ii) Tariff & Pricing regime; (iii)
Spectrum Audit & Spectrum Pricing; (iv) Quality of Service; and (v) Support for
Implementation of the Spectrum Management and Monitoring System Consultancy. The
sixth report, on Unified Licensing Regime (ULR), will be implemented by BTRC after
2011.

The acquisition of SMMS consultancy was provided by EFC Co., of USA. BTRC
implemented the acquisition and installation of SMMS successfully as such performance
and compliance were satisfactory.

As the Government of Bangladesh was the Borrower, no question of Bank safeguard
arose. The business policy of the Bank in knowledge enhancement of BTRC personnel
and strengthening the regulatory capacity of BTRC was timely and essential.

BTRC is also benefited from Spectrum Management System and Spectrum Monitoring
Stations for allocating and monitoring spectrum effectively and reducing frequency
congestion, interference, etc.

Drive -Test Equipment are being utilized for establishing an acceptable quality of service
in the country.


Degree to which the project achieved its development objectives and outputs as set
out in the project document. The project was implemented 100 percent as per the set
out objectives in project document.

Other significant outcomes and impact. Bangladesh had no Spectrum Management
System and Spectrum Monitoring equipment before the implementation of the project.
Out of the project financing, BTRC was able to install the much-required Spectrum
Management and Monitoring System. BTRC also procured Drive Test Equipment for
monitoring the QOS of telecom operators.

Prospect for Project Sustainability: The consultancy part of the project was knowledge
enhancement which BTRC utilized, and in the process, strengthened its regulatory
capacity. The largest part of financing (USD 5.273 million) was used for the procurement
of SMMS and Drive Test Equipment. The equipment has been installed properly. The
equipment/system is fully operational now. Only trained personnel can operate this
equipment. Therefore, the project personnel and equipment must be maintained to get the
maximum benefit of the project over the years.

Both Bank and Borrower performance was highly satisfactory.




                                            35
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                    36
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1.    Project Appraisal Document - 2003
   2.    Development Credit Agreement ­ 2003
   3.    Project Aide-Memoires ­ 2003 to 2009
   4.    Project ISRs : 2003 to 2009




                                         37
MAP




      38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 37863
                   To Gangtok
    88ºE                                               89ºE                       BHUTAN                     90ºE                                           91ºE
                                                                                                                                                                                                            BANGLADESH
                                                                                                                                                                                         TELECOMMUNICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                         TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT
                                                                                             Dispur
                                    Panchagar
                                                                                                                                                                                                         DISTRICT CAPITALS
  To
 Patna
                               PANCHAGAR                                                                                                                                                                 DIVISION CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                      BANGLADESH
                                                                                                                                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL




                                                                 LA
                                                                 L
                                                                 L
  26ºN         Thakurgaon                                                                                                                                                                                RIVERS



                                                                  L
                                                                  LM
                                                                  L
                                              NILPHAMARI




                                                                     O
                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAIN ROADS


                                                                       N
                                                                       N
                                                                       N
             THAKURGAON                          Nilphamari                       Lalmonirhat




                                                                         IR
                                                                          RH
                                                                          R
                                                                             AT
                                                                             A
                                                                             A
                                                                                        Kurigram                                                                                                         RAILROADS
                                                              Rangpur                                                                                                                                    DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
   To                                                                                 KURIGRAM
 Katihar                                  Dinajpur             RANGPUR                                                                                                                                   DIVISION BOUNDARIES
                                             DINAJPUR                                                            To                                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                               Goalpara

     To
                                                                                                                                                       I N DI A
   Katihar                                                                  Gaibandha                                                                                                        To         92ºE                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                            Dispur                          Dispur
                                                                           GAIBANDHA

                                                      JOYPURHAT
                                                                                                               SERPUR
                                                            Joypurhat                                                                                              Sunamganj
                                                                                                                                                                                                     SYLHET
  25ºN                                                                                                           Serpur                                                                                                                         25ºN
                                    NAOGAON
                                                                            BOGRA                 Jamalpur
                                                                                                                                         NETROKONA                       SUNAMGANJ          Sylhet
                                    Naogaon
                                                                             Bogra                    JAMALPUR                                 Netrokona
                                     RAJSHAHI                                                                                  Mymensingh
                                                                                                                                                                                  SYLHET
           NOWABGANJ                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Silchar
                                                                                                                           MYMENSINGH
                                                                                         Jamuna
                                                                                         Ja na
                                                                                         J




                         Nowabganj
                              RAJSHAHI                                                                                    DHAKA                         Kishorganj                           MOULVI BAZAR
                                                                                 Serajganj                                                                                  HABIGANJ         Moulvi Bazar
               G
                   an               Rajshahi               Natore
                                                                                SERAJGANJ                                                             KISHORGANJ
                      ge                                  NATORE                                               TANGAIL
                           s
                                                                                                                                                                            Habiganj
                                                                                                             Tangail

                                                                                                                                    GAZIPUR
                                                                        PABNA
                                                                        Pabna                                                     Gazipur     NARSINGDI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I N D IA                     24ºN
                                                                                                                                                          a

  24ºN
                                                                                                                                                        gh n


                                                                                                                                              Narsingdi            Brahmanbaria
                                                                                                                                                       Me




    I NDI A                                      KUSHTIA Kushtia
                                                                                                   Manikanj            DHAKA
                                                                                                                                                            BRAHMAN
                                                                                                                                                              BARIA
                                     Meherpur
                                                                                             Rajbari MANIKGANJ                         NARAYNGANJ
                               MEHERPUR          Chuadanga                        RAJBARI                              DHAKA            Naraynganj
                                                                                                       Faridpur                                    COMILLA
                                     CHUADANGA
                                                                  Jhenaidah
                                                                         Magura                                         MUNSHIGANJ Munshiganj
                                                                                                FARIDPUR                  G  a n ge
                                                      JHENAIDAH                                                                    s
                                                                         MAGURA                                                                                Comilla



                                                                                                                                                                                                           HARI
  To                                                                                                                SARIATPUR                 CHANDPUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                      RACH
Calcutta                                                                                                               Sariatpur
                                                       Jessore                      Narail                        Madaripur                 Chandpur                                                         Khagrachhari
                                                                                                                                                                                                     KHAG

                                                                                                           MADARIPUR
                                                                                   NARAIL
                                                              JESSORE                              GOPALGANJ
                                                                                                      Gopalganj                                                                Feni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                23ºN
  23ºN
                                                          KHULNA                                                                                 LUXMIPUR
                                                                                                                                                  Luxmipur NOAKHALI          FENI
                                                                                       Khulna                             BARISAL
                                                                                                                                                                 Noakhali                                         RANGAMATI
                                                             Satkhira     KHULNA
                                                                                       Bagerhat
                                                                                                   PEROJPUR
                                                                                                    Jhalukathi                    Barisal     Bhola                 C H I T TA G O N G
                                                      SATKHIRA                                            JHALUKATHI                                                                                   Rangamati         Kaptai
  To
Calcutta                                                                                  BAGERHAT    Perojpur                                                                                                          Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                         CHITTAGONG
                                                                                                                 BARISAL
                                                                                                                                Patuakhali      BHOLA
                                                                                     a
                                                                             D e l t
                                                                                                                               PATUAKHALI                                             Chittagong
                                          s
                                G a n g e
                                                                                                                       Barguna
                                                                                                               BARGUNA                                                                                                Bandarban


  22ºN
                                                                                                                                                 s                                                                    Mt. Mowdok
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                22ºN

                                                           an
                                                              s                                                                               ge                                                                          (957 m)

                                                       arb                                                                               G an
                                                     d
                                                 Sun                                                                        the                                                                                       BANDARBAN

                                                                                                               of                                                                                     COX'S
                                                              ths                                                                                                                                     BAZAR
                                                        Mou
                                                                                                                                                                                            Cox's Bazar
                     0 10 20 30 40 50 Kilometers

                                                                                                                           Bay of Bengal
                     0         10   20      30       40       50 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MYANMAR
           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
  21ºN     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                                                      21ºN
           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                     89ºE                                                    90ºE                                            91ºE                                           92ºE                     Sittwe

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MAY 2010
