                                                                                                      92879
                                                                                                      May 16, 2007

                                                                 Links:
                                                                 - What is IDA?
                                                                 - Our Work in Bangladesh


                                                                 More on Bangladesh:
                                                                 - Borrowing History
                                                                 - Data & Statistics
                                                                 - Research
                                                                 - Contact Us




At the time of appraisal in 2000, Bangladesh had one of the lowest teledensity rates in the world:
0.26 telephones per 100 inhabitants. The fixed line incumbent, the Bangladesh Telephone and
Telegraph Board (BTTB) had only 350,000 lines in service for a population of 125 million. The
waiting list for a fixed line totaled 200,000 subscribers with a waiting time of over 10 years. The
challenge was to (i) increase access to telecommunications services and improve the quality of
service being offered; (ii) increase connectivity to rural areas, which, in turn, would promote the
economic development of rural Bangladesh.




Promoting private sector development was essential to improve basic infrastructure which, in
turn, is key to private sector development. GrameenPhone Limited's strategy was to effectively
become the second national operator in Bangladesh. Instead of focusing on a high-end, niche
market, it pursued a low tariff strategy designed to compete directly with BTTB. Contiguous
investments have assisted in the expansion of GrameenPhone's digital cellular network since
2000. The project supported the company's leading position in the cellular market of Bangladesh
and helped increase not only the existing network capacity, but also expanded coverage to a
larger part of the population.




GrameenPhone has become the leading wireless operator in Bangladesh, with a network
covering over 90 percent of the population. The Village Phone Program has had a
significant impact especially on the rural population of this low-teledensity country.


Highlights:
- The Village Phone Program, operated by GrameenPhone, currently provides mobile phone
services to approximately 50 million people in villages across the country. It leverages micro-
loans from the GrameenBank, providing women with credit to buy cell phones from
GrameenPhone. The women then provide mobile pay phone service in their shops, the local
market, and elsewhere, charging a markup agreed on with GrameenPhone. Extended cell-phone
coverage in poorer areas has had a tremendous social and economic impact on the operators --
mostly rural, poor women for whom income-generating opportunities are rare.
- GrameenPhone has also established 500 Community Information Centers (CIC) where citizens
in rural areas have access to the internet and information services.
- GrameenPhone currently has 6,000 sites in all 64 Districts, covering approximately 95 percent
of the total population and 80 percent of the country. (Coverage= access to the network signal.)
- Prices have fallen considerably. A prepaid minute of call from a mobile phone cost 5 Taka in
2004 (Exchange rate: US$1 = approx 70 Taka). The rates for the same call have fallen to Taka
1.50 per minute today, due to increased competition and improved interconnection arrangements
between operators. With the entry of a fifth operator into the market on May 10, 2007 prices are
expected to fall further and more innovative service offerings will be available to customers.
- The TeleCommons Development Group (“TDG”) of Canada found that the consumer surplus
from a single phone call to Dhaka, which replaces a physical trip to the city, ranges from 2.64
percent to 9.8 percent of the mean monthly household income. The cost of a trip to the capital
ranges from 2 to 8 times the cost of a single phone call.
- Further, a 2006 Ovum study found that almost a quarter of a million Bangladeshi depend on the
mobile industry, directly and indirectly, and that mobile services contribute US$650 million to the
economy every year.




- Drawing on its experience in other countries, IDA support and policy dialogue focused on
establishing a regulatory framework that allows competitive private wireless operators to flourish
and provide rapid services.
- Through the Telecommunications Technical Assistance Project IDA is helping the government
of Bangladesh to (i) separate the policy and operational roles of the government by restructuring
the state-owned carrier, BTTB, to operate as an independent commercial entity; (ii) strengthen
the policy function of the ministry, MOPT; and (iii) strengthen the regulatory capacity of the
Regulatory Commission BTRC, including its spectrum management function.
- The work of the World Bank in all of these important areas reduced the regulatory risk faced by
GrameenPhone and gave all parties far greater confidence in investing in Bangladesh telecoms
market.




In 2000, the International Finance Corporation, part of the World Bank Group, provided a loan of
US$16.7 million and made an equity investment of US$1.57 million in exchange for 3 percent of
the company's shares (GrameenPhone I). This investment funded the initial installation and
operation of the company's GSM 900 network. In December 2003, IFC sold its equity stake to
the shareholders for TK466 million (US$8 million). In 2004, IFC provided the company with a
second loan (GrameenPhone II) of US$30 million, the proceeds of which were partly applied to
repay IFC's first loan. In 2006 a third loan of US$70 million was approved and should be
finalized in 2007 (GrameenPhone III).




GrameenPhone I and II were successful and have recently led to a new investment,
GrameenPhone III. IFC has found that the model is replicable in other countries, and has most
recently assisted in developing a similar program in Uganda. IFC is also embarking on a similar
initiative in Nigeria.




Telecommunications Technical Assistance Project (2003-08)
Project documents  |  www.grameenphone.com  |  Beneficiary case study
