Report No. 607a-KE
Appraisal of a                                                                -- - 
Site and Service Project                                                             R
REPO1T   Z
Kenya                                                                           vITIAN
April 14, 1975                                                                         O          .
Transportation and Urban Projects Department
Not for Public Use                                                                FILE COPY
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                                    Kenya Shilling 7.143
Kenya Pound                             US Dollar       2.80
Kenya Shilling                           US Dollar      0.14
(The official unit of currency in Kenya is the Kenya Shilling (K Sh).
However, in accordance with the practice of the Kenya Government, some
large values in the report are expressed in Kenya Pounds (Kb)).
KT5                                     Kenya Shilling 20
K Sh 1                                  100 Cents (Kenya)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                             3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)       -            10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 kilometer (km)                        0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                          2.47 acres
1 liter (1)               -             0.246 US gallons (gal)
1 milligram (mg)          a             0.015 grain
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOK    --   Government of Kenya
OPT    --   Graduated Personal Tax
NCC    --   Nairobi City Council
NHC    --   National Housing Corporation
NCCK   --   National Christian Council of Kenya
IMF    --   International Monetary Fund
FINANCIAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..........................         i - iv
I.   INTRODUCTION .......       ..............................      1
II.   BACKGROUND ........     ...............................       1
A.   Urbanization and Government Policy        ..........     1
B.   Nairobi .......     .........................            3
III.   THE PROJECT      ..............................                6
A.   Project Description ..... .............                  6
B.   Design Standards ...... .............                    9
C.   Cost Estimates .............. .. ..............         10
D.   Financing .......      ............................     11
E.   Procurement and Disbursement ................           12
F.   Execution Schedule .....       .....................    13
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .......... .. ..........          13
A.   Water and Sewerage Department ...............           13
B.   The Project Department  .....................           13
C.   Allocation .................. ................          15
D.   Tenure, Lot Transfer and Eviction ...........           16
V.   COST RECOVERY AND PRICING ........... .. ...........         16
VI.   JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS ..............           20
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ..................................           22
The original version of this report was prepared by Messrs. W. P. McCulloch,
N. Lethbridge, P. Patel (Transportation and Urban Projects) and N. Jorgensen,
F. Temple and S. Whitehead (Consultants). Messrs. C. E. Madavo, P. Patel
and Its D. Haldane (Transportation and Urban Projects) finalized the report.
Messrs. P. Callejas, J. Huang and N. Tin appraised the sewerage component
and prepared the related Annex.



ANNEXES
ANNEX 1        Nairobi City Council:  Structure and Operations
ANNEX 2        Housing Development in Nairobi
ANNEX 3        The Construction Industry in Kenya
ANNEX 4        Physical Planning
ANNEX 5        Design Standards and Cost Estimates
ANNEX 6        Trunk Infrastructure:  Sewerage
ANNEX 7        Community Facilities
ANNEX 8        Lot Allocation and Building Materials Loans
ANNEX 9        Cost Recovery and Pricing
ANNEX 10       Municipal Finances
ANNEX 11       Nairobi City Council Housing Operations Study
ANNEX 12       Site and Service and Upgrading Project Preparation Study
ANNEX 13       Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
ANNEX 14       Economic Evaluation
CHARTS
IBRD 9324      Construction Schedule
IBRD 9325      Project Department Organization
MAPS
IBRD 11067     Kenya:  Main Towns and Population Density
IBRD 11068     Regional Setting of Nairobi
IBRD 11069     Nairobi:  Land Use
IBRD 11391     Nairobi:  Sewerage Plan



KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The proposed Nairobi Site and Service project is the first large
scale attempt by the Government and the Nairobi City Council to implement
a low-cost solution to the shelter and service needs of the urban poor. The
project is intended to be the first in a series of site and services in
Nairobi and other Kenyan towns. While it will not satisfy the total demand
for serviced plots in Nairobi, the technical assistance under the project
will help formulate shelter programs designed to deal realistically with the
needs of the urban poor and enable Government and Local Authorities to plan
and execute such projects in the future.
ii.       Large-scale provision of low-cost shelter and infrastructure is
essential if Kenya is to provide for its rapidly expanding urban population.
Roughly 1.6 million people or 13% of the total Kenyan population are in
urban areas, with about 70% living in Nairobi and Mombasa. By 1980 another
600,000 urban dwellers are forecast, despite stated policies to reduce rural-
urban migration and decentralize away from Nairobi and Mombasa.
iii.      The impact of rapid urban growth is particularly evident in Nairobi.
The city has about 730,000 inhabitants and has been growing at nearly 7% per
annum. Unemployment is estimated at about 13% of the labor force and is
rising. Annual conventional housing production has averaged about 2,000 units
compared to 9,000 new households per annum, resulting in over one-third of the
population living in unauthorized areas where unemployment is as high as 20%.
iv.       The proposed project will provide 6,000 self-help housing units or
25% of the target for the city during the current Plan (1974-1978) at about
one-third of the unit costs of previous housing programs. The project will
include studies of (a) municipal finance and functions in Kenya to be
conducted by the Government with assistance from the International Monetary
Fund; (b) organization and management of the Nairobi City Council housing
operations with special emphasis on budgeting and accounting techniques; and
(c) preparation of future site and service and squatter upgrading projects in
Nairobi and other Kenyan towns, with particular attention given to ways and
means of creating employment.
v.        Specifically the project would consist of:
(a) Residential Lots: preparation and servicing of 6,000 lots
of four different sizes (100, 120, 140 and 160 m2) with
individual water supply and sewer connections;



- ii -
(b)  Core Units:  construction of 6,000 sanitary core units of
which 3,870 would have wet core only (Option A), 1,800
units one room built (Option B), 330 two built rooms in-
cluding 30 completed demonstration units (Option C).
(c)  Materials Loan Fund:  loan financing of materials
sufficient for self-help construction of dwellings to
a maximum of two rooms;
(d)  Community Facilities:  construction of related facilities
including 6 primary schools, 2 health centers, 2 multi-
purpose community centers incorporating day-care facilities,
1 sports complex, and about 400 market stalls;
(e)  Trunk Infrastructure:  construction of trunk sewers,
stabilization ponds and access roads; and
(f)  Technical Assistance:
(i)  Project Department operations;
(ii) detailed engineering and construction supervision
fees;
(iii)  studies:  a joint GOK/IMF Municipal Finance Study,
a Housing Operations Study for Nairobi City Council,
and project preparation for future site and service
and upgrading schemes;
(iv) monitoring: by a team from the University of Nairobi;
(v)  nutrition:  a survey of nutrition needs, possibly
followed by a pilot scheme.
vi.       The project site at Dandora 10 km east of the city center is easily
accessible to existing and proposed employment centers and conforms with the
city's development plan as set forth by the Nairobi Urban Study Group.
vii.      The layout minimizes public land and infrastructure per area
served and maximizes occupants' responsibility in maintaining the project
area. The lots, varying in size from 100 m2 to 160 m2 are small, resulting
in relatively high densities. Capital costs of site preparation, on-site
services including individual water and sewerage and core units range from
Kb310 (US$870) to KL825 (US$2,310) per lot; roughly two-thirds of the project
lots cost between US$870 and US$1,000, about 30% between US$1,400 and US$1,500,
and 5% about US$2,310. The latter are included in the project both to
introduce better social balance and, more particularly, to provide the basis
for cross-subsidization.
viii.     Total project costs, based on detailed engineering for the
first 700 lots and preliminary engineering on the remainder, are estimated
at KL 10.54 (US$29.52) million.  Physical contingencies range from 5% for



- iii -
buildings to 15% f'or infrastructure. Price escalation has been calculated
at 15% for 1975 and 12% annually for the period 1976 to 1979. Foreign
exchange cost is estimated at about 26%.
ix.       The financing plan consists of a Kb 5.72 (US$16.0) million contri-
bution by IDA/Bank and KS 4.82 (US$13.52) million by the Government.  The
bulk of IDA/Bank f'unds will be on-lent to the Nairobi City Council on Bank
terms and those from the Government's resources at 6.5% and 25 years, the
prevailing National Housing Corporation terms to Municipalities for housing
projects.
x.        The project would be executed over 5 years:  lot preparation and
servicing will take 3-1/2 years with disbursement on building materials loans
for self-help housing extending over an additional 18 months. The trunk
sewer component of the project will be carried out by the Nairobi City
Council's Water and Sewerage Department. A special Project Department will
be created to execute the remainder of the project.
xi.       Civil works contracts and some supply contracts totalling KE 4.45
(US$12.44) million will be let on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Lesser works comprising mainly
community facilities and the first phase area (1,000 plots) worth Kb 0.90
(US$2.52) million will be let on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with Nairobi City Council procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Building materials loans amounting to KE 1.1 (US$3.2) million will be
made in cash with lot allottees making the purchase on their own.
xii.      Particular care is being taken to ensure impartiality in the allo-
cation of lots. Eligibility criteria will include: (a) household monthly
income of between K Sh 280 (US$40) to K Sh 650 (US$90); (b) two years residence
in Nairobi; (c) family living in Nairobi; and (d) non-ownership of other resi-
dential property in the city. Allottees and a waiting list for any subse-
quent transfers will be published. The cheapest lots (65% of the total) will
be allocated to families with incomes between K Sh 280 and K Sh 500 per month.
The next category (30% of the total) will be allocated to families earning
K Sh 450 to 650 per month. The overlap in the two categories (i.e., between
K Sh 450 and 500) allows for improvement in income. The third category (330
lots, or 5% of the total) will be sold at market prices to any buyer and the
derived surplus used to cross-subsidize about 50% of the lots, all in Option A.
xiii.     Allottees will be given 50-year renewable leases.  Plot and materials
loan repayment terms will be 8.5% interest rate and 30 or 20-year repayment
periods for Option A and B lots respectively. Holders of Option A lots (wet
core only) will be granted a grace period of 5 years on building materials
loans to encourage faster consolidation; the grace period will not apply to
occupants of Option B since they will have one-room core units.
xiv.      Monthly charges will range from K Sh 73 (US$10) to K Sh 153 (US$20).
Assuming expenditure for shelter and services of roughly 25% of monthly house-
hold income, Option A lots, constituting two-thirds of the project, will be



- iv -
affordable by households as low as the 20th percentile in the city's income
distribution curve. Option B lots would be affordable to households in the
30th and 40th percentile.
xv.       The expected flow of funds generated by the residential component
of the project shows a cumulative surplus ranging from about Kb 25,000 to
KE 380,000 during the first ten years. The sale price of Option C units,
estimated Kb 1,200 is critical to the realization of this surplus. However,
even if the profit on these units was reduced to half that expected, the
cumulative account would experience only a small deficit in 1982 which would
be elimated by 1984.
xvi.      Nairobi's overall financial position has been extremely strained
since the Government's abolition of the Graduated Personal Tax for munici-
palities in 1973; the Council's reserves are likely to be exhausted by 1977.
The non-revenue producing project components will increase the projected
deficit on NCC's General Fund by about KE 50,000 in 1976 rising to roughly
Kb 380,000 by 1980.  Specific measures were discussed and agreed with the
Government and NCC at negotiations to ensure NCC financial viability in the
short term. The Government has requested assistance of the IMF to analyze
municipal finance in order to formulate and implement longer-term solutions.
xvii.     The rate of return on the housing component of the project,
measured in terms of the stream of imputed rents from the expected housing
units compared to costs, is about 19%. That of the sewerage component is
estimated at about 15.5%.
xviii.    The project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$8.0 million and
a Bank Loan of US$8.0 million equivalent for a term of 25 years including
a grace period of 4 years.



KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Bank interest in Kenya and Nairobi's urban problems dates back
to reconnaissance missions in 1969 and 1971. In the earlier missions Bank
staff sought to encourage the Government to incorporate in its National
Development Plan ways of tackling the problems of urban growth with special
reference to the needs of lower income groups. In March 1972, the Nairobi
City Council began preparation of a site and service project which, at the
request of Government, was limited to the capital where squatting is most
serious. Although the Government and the Nairobi City Council were intent
on implementing low-cost solutions to their urban problems, the legacy of
high standard conventional housing approaches to shelter made the actual
acceptance of lower and more realistic standards slow. The Government and
the city now want to implement site and services and to examine other low-
cost approaches to urban shelter including upgrading of existing squatter
settlements.
1.02      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Nairobi in June/July 1974, comprising Messrs. W. P. McCulloch
(Chief of Mission), P. Patel, N. Lethbridge (Transportation and Urban
Projects Department) and Consultants N. Jorgensen, F. Temple, and S. Whitehead.
The mission was assisted by R. Byron (Nairobi Office) and R. Reekie (East
Africa Projects). A brief follow-up visit by Messrs. C. E. Madavo (Trans-
portation and Urban Projects Department), J. W. Adams (East Africa Programs),
J. Huang (Economic Development Institute), P. Callejas and N. Tin (East
Africa Projects) took place in October 1974.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Urbanization and Government Policy
2.01      The current Development Plan (1974-1978) estimetes Kenya's urban
population (residents of towns of 2,000 and over) to be about 1.6 million
or 13% of the total. Urbanization is occuring at a rate of approximately
6%, double the national population growth rate. Nairobi and Mombasa account
for about 70% of the urban population with the remainder scattered in some
46 centers. Nakuru, in the former white highlands, with a 1974 population
of approximately 66,000, Eldoret (25,000) and Kisumu (46,000) in Western
Kenya, and Thika (25,000) near Nairobi, are among the more important secondary
cities.



- 2 -
2.02      In an effort to encourage decentralization away from Nairobi and
Mombasa, the Physical Planning Department in the Ministry of Lands and
Settlement has classified Kenyan urban areas according to their current
conditions, natural growth trends, and potential functions in relation to their
hinterland. The framework will be used to encourage growth of a number of
selected towns through such means as favorable treatment of investment made
in them. This policy is expected to have only a marginal effect on growth
prospects for -Nairobi and Mombasa. Current projections show that Kenya's
urban population will be about 2.2 million or 15% of tie total by 1980 and
between 26% and 32% by the end of this century -- a probably seven-fold
increase over the next 25 years. The majority of this growth will occur
in two or three principal cities.
2.03      Government is faced with the task of meeting the requirements of
this rapidly expanding urban population. The major needs include:
-    low-cost shelter and infrastructure consistent with limited
available resources, including reductions of deficits in
services and infrastructure for those already living in
the urban areas;
-    employment and income-producing activities;
-    adequate municipal resources to deal effectively but
economically with urban problems.
2.04      Although the Government's official planning has repeatedly emphasizecl
the adoption of urban infrastructure and shelter standards affordable by the
country as a whole, little real progress has been made. Past preoccupation
with "acceptable standards" costing too much for the people or the economy
to afford on any scale, has resulted in about one-third of the urban popula-
tion living in unauthorized and unserviced areas. Although the Development
Plan has called for suspension of squatter demolition, policy towards these
areas remains ambiguous. During the preparation of the proposed Nairobi
Site and Service Project frank discussions were held with Government on the
need to find realistic solutions to problems of unauthorized settlements and
to actually implement a lower standard urban shelter program on a meaningful
scale.
2.05      Job creation in the formal sector has been slow, and standards
regarding wage levels and employment conditions have further restricted
expansion with the result that a substantial portion of Kenya's labor force
is employed within the "informal" sector. A recent ILO mission on employ-
ment has recommended a strategy which would encourage informal sector employ-
ment through deregulation and active promotion of small-scale industrial
activity, adoption of intermediate technology, vocational training and job
promotion.
2.06      Finally, the financial base of Kenyan municipalities (see
Annex 10) and their organizational structures are inadequate to deal with
the developmental problems accompanying the rapid rate of urban growth. At



- 3 -
the end of 1973, a major source of municipal revenue -- the Graduated
Personal Tax -- was abolished and as yet no replacement has been found,
leaving most municipalities in dire financial straits. As a result, the Govern-
ment setup a Working Party on Municipal Finances to address this problem, and
as follow-up to its submitted report, the Government is to undertake a de-
tailed study of mumicipal finance in Kenya with assistance from the IMF. 1/
Meanwhile, Government has agreed to provide NCC or enable NCC to provide
itself with funds adequate to meet its reasonable recurrent and development
expenditure until such time as NCC through the implementation of the results
of the above study or otherwise, no longer requires such assistance.
B. Naitobi
2.07      Problems resulting from rapid urbanization are particularly acute
in Nairobi, the capital and economic center of Kenya. In 1970, 39% of the
jobs and 44% of the earnings in the country's modern sector (excluding
agricultural enterprises) were in Nairobi. The city's population was esti-
mated at 730,000 in 1974, the result of an annual growth rate of about 7%
over the past decade. It is projected to be a little over a million by the
end of this decade, reflecting a slightly higher rate of growth.
2.08      Growth has been accompanied by a changing population mix partic-
ularly since Independence; colonial whites and non-citizen Asians have been
leaving the city and Africans have been coming from the hinterland in ever-
increasing numbers. The Asian and white populations have decreased at
estimated average annual rates of 2.8% and 3.1% respectively between 1962
and 1975, while African population has grown at about 8.6%. In spite of
the large African influx, Nairobi still exhibits two distinct faces. Within
the past decade the city has become an aspiring international center. The
relatively rich whites of the colonial era are being replaced by employees
of multi-national corporations and other foreign and international agencies.
These expatriates, together with the Asian and Kenyan elites, comprise the
modern and more visible Nairobi. The working poor and the new migrants
living in unauthorized settlements comprise the other Nairobi. It is on
the problems of the latter that this report and the proposed project focus.
2.09      Nairobi's unemployment problem encompasses not only those without
jobs but the even larger number who do not earn enough to meet their basic
needs estimated at K Sh 200 per household per month for a household of five.
An NCC study estimated that a little over 13% of Nairobi's labor force was
unemployed in 1971. An ILO study on employment in Kenya found that over 20%
of adult males and 50% of adult females in Nairobi are either unemployed or
1/   A formal request for such assistance was submitted to the INF on
March 7, 1975.



- 4 -
have inadequate income as defined above. This situation is steadily deter-
iorating due to the relatively slow annual expansion of formal sector employ-
ment. Even with rapid growth in informal sector activities, unemployment
can be expected to increase.
2.10      Construction of new housing in Nairobi during the past decade has
been totally inadequate (see Annex 2). The conventional private housing
subsector has produced about 1,000 units annually in recent years. However,
these units cater exclusively to the middle- and upper-income groups,
typically cost more than KE 5,000 (US$14,000) each. The conventional
public housing subsector, through the Nairobi City Council and the National
Housing Corporation, has been producing an annual average of approximately
1,000 houses during the past few years. Most of these units have averaged
KE 1,500 for NCC and Kb 2,300 for NHC, which puts them beyond the means of
the poorest third of the population.
2.11      The disparity between an annual addition of some 9,000 households
to the city and the production of only about 2,300 new units by the public
and private formal subsectors explains why squatter and other unauthorized
housing development has been so vigorous in recent years. A 1971 study
concluded that one-third of the city's inhabitants were living in uncontrolled,
illegal areas in overcrowded conditions. There are broadly two types of
unauthorized development in the city: the first follows the typical squatter
pattern of building illegally on land not owned by the builder; the second
is that of unapproved housing (usually rental units) built by groups or
individuals on land that they own.
2.12      The squatter population in Nairobi is a well established, permanent
community whose housing condition is more a result of the lack of access to
land and credit than of overt poverty. Over three-quarters of household
heads have been in Nairobi for an average of 17 years and nearly half are
wage-employed, earning over K Sh 200 per month. Another third are self-
employed, earning roughly K Sh 100; 20% have no visible source of cash in-
come. While the majority of residents are therefore productively employed
and have fairly regular, though low, incomes, unemployment is relatively
severe among the younger and less educated.
2.13      The discrepancy between stated and actual housing policy is par-
ticularly evident in Nairobi. Public sector conventional housing construction
continues to be heavily biased towards middle- and high-cost units and the
city policy towards squatter areas has sharply fluctuated. Until recently,
civic authorities have persistently demolished squatter developments without
providing rehousing. In one instance, however, when Mathare Valley, the
city's largest concentration of uncontrolled housing (population 90,000)
was threatened with a cholera epidemic, the City Council did make an effort
to upgrade the area. As a condition of this project, NCC has agreed, in
accordance with present Government policy, not to engage in substantial
demolition of unauthorized dwellings in areas subject to its jurisdiction.
2.14      The lack of decisive policy and action programs in the field of
shelter are further exacerbated by the absence of an effective implementation



- 5 -
machinery within the Nairobi City Council (NCC). Although the NCC's staff
and expenditure levels have expanded considerably during the past decade,
its housing delivery system has not been adapted to the challenges posed by
the city's rapid growth. The Council's current departmental committee system
is administratively cumbersome and is not conducive to the establishment of
overall shelter priorities and policies for the city. The lack of coordi-
nation among the various departments and committees impairs the Council's
ability to make decisions and to implement projects quickly and efficiently.
2.15      No less pressing are the problems of municipal finance.  NCC finances
had until recently been reasonable, covering a substantial part of expendi-
tures through user charges, the Graduated Personal Tax (50% of revenue) and
property tax (35%). The 1973 abolition of the Graduated Personal Tax
dramatically affected NCC finances. The City Council has been incurring
annual deficits on General Fund current account since 1972, and projections
of the Council's financial position indicate that resources will be exhausted
by 1977 (see Annex 10). Until longer term solutions are implemented (para
2.06) Government has undertaken to ensure NCC financial viability.
2.16      In response to the rapid growth of the city resulting in some of
the problems summarized above, the Nairobi City Council embarked on a
comprehensive urban development study in 1971. The study report issued in
1973 1/ outlined a development strategy consisting of both a series of
policy approaches in the areas of land use, employment, housing, and trans-
portation, and a broad physical structure plan within which these approaches
might be realized. The structural plan directs most long-term growth in
the city toward the east and the north with some spotting in the southwestern
part. Study recommendations on policy approaches are summarized in Annex 1.
Regarding housing, the salient recommendations were that NCC formulate a
realistic program which, while encouraging provision of middle and upper
income housing, emphasized shelter for lower income groups through serviced
sites and improvement of squatter settlements.
2.17      Recently the City Council has embarked on a number of projects
which are broadly in keeping with the thrust of the Urban Study recommenda-
tions. Three of these schemes, including the proposed site and service
project, are being undertaken with assistance from external sources. The
first phase of a 5,000 unit housing project being financed by the Common-
wealth Development Corporation (CDC) has just been compLeted. The units,
costing Kb 2,000 (US$5,600) and up will be affordable by upper income groups.
To cater for middle income households, the City Council is negotiating a
loan for a project comprising about 2,900 housing units with the USAID
Housing Guaranty Program. The sale prices for the units will range from
Kb 900 (US$2,520) to Kb 1,300 (US$3,640). The proposed project of 6,000
site and service units with lot costs (services and core units) ranging from
Kb 310 (US$870) to Kb 825 (US$2,310) is targeted at much lower income groups
forming an important complement to the CDC and USAID-supported projects. The
1/   Nairobi Metropolitan Growth Strategy (1973); City Council of Nairobi.



-6-
three schemes together would provide about one-third of the housing units
required to accommodate population increase in the city during the current
Plan (1974-1978). Additional construction will be undertaken when the city's
finances improve sufficiently to support a new capital program.
2.18      The proposed site and service project would, in addition, deal with
some of the broader urban needs (para 2.03) and impreve NCC capacity to
implement future low-income shelter projects. The project would address
the lack of an effective shelter policy by assisting Government to imple-
ment the first large-scale, low-cost solution to urban shelter and infra-
structure-a major objective of the last two Development Plans which has
never been realized.  In addition, the project would include preparation of
future site and service and squatter improvement projects in three Kenyan
towns. The project would further attempt to identify solutions to the
difficulties being experienced by Kenyan municipalities through studies of:
(a) municipal finance throughout Kenya; and (b) a reorganization of NCC housing
operations.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
3.01      The proposed project consists of:
(a) New Residential Lots: preparation and servicing of
approximately 6,000 lots of four different sizes
(100, 120, 140 and 160 m2) with individual water
supply and sewer connections;
(b) Core Units: construction of 6,000 sanitary core units
of which 3,870 would have wet core only, 1,800 units
one built room, 330 two built rooms of which 30 would
be completed demonstration units;
(c) Materials Loan Fund: financing of materials loans for
self-help construction of dwellings to a maximum of
two rooms;
(d) Community Facilities: construction of related facilities
including 6 primary schools, 2 health centers, 2 multi-
purpose community centers incorporating day-care facili-
ties, sports complex, and about 400 market stalls;
(e) Trunk Infrastructure: construction of trunk sewers,
stabilization ponds, and access roads required for the
project;



-7-
(f) Technical Assistance:
(i)  Project Department operations;
(ii) detailed engineering and construction supervision
fees;
(iii) studies: a joint GOK/IMF Municipal Finance Study,
a Housing Operations Study for Nairobi City Council,
and project preparation for future site and service
and upgrading schemes;
(iv) monitoring: possibly by a team from the University
of Nairobi;
(v)  nutrition:  a survey of nutrition needs possibly
followed by a pilot scheme.
3.02      New Residential Lots:  The project would provide about 6,000 lots
with individual water and sewer connections and related basic services and
infrastructure, including roads, security lighting, and refuse collection.
The 6 000 lots include about 1,800 of 100 m2, 2,100 of 120 m2, 1,800 of
140 m2, and 300 of 160 m2 each.
3.03      Core Units: In order to accommodate different income levels and
needs within the low-income sector, three alternative levels of contractor
built shelter would be developed on the serviced lots.  Approximately 65% of
the lots will have built wet cores consisting of a w.c. and washroom (Option
A); 30% of the lots will have built wet cores plus one room (Option B); and
5% will have wet cores plus two built rooms including about 30 fully built
demonstration units (Option C).
3.04      Materials Loan Fund:  Materials loans (for terms see para 5.06)
would be made available to project participants for self-help extensions to
supplement other sources of funds, including personal savings and borrowings.
Allottees of Option A would be eligible for loans of about KL 240 (US$670)
representing the cost of two rooms; those of Option B would be eligible for
KE 120 (US$335) equivalent to the cost of one room. Participants will con-
struct or extend their own dwelling on the basis of approved designs.
3.05      Community Facilities:  The project would construct primary schools,
health centers, multipurpose community centers incorporating day-care facili-
ties, sports facilities, and markets. The criteria used in determining the
provision of community facilities are discussed in Annex 7, and design
standards and cost estimates are shown in Annex 5. Primary schools, account-
ing for about 60% of the investment in community facilities, would provide
up to 5,600 student places -- allowing the project area the same level of
provision as the rest of Nairobi. The community centers would accommodate
activities such as community meetings, adult education, and other recreation.



3.06      Trunk Infrastructure:  The trunk sewerage will comprise:  two branch
sewers from the project area to the proposed main city trunk sewer, 14.5 km
of main trunk sewer running alongside the Nairobi river to the sewerage treat-
ment works at site D (Map 11069), a temporary stabilization pond to serve the
first 1,000 housing lots by mid-1976, and a sewage treatment works consisting
of stabilization ponds with a capacity to treat an average waste water flow
of 30,000 cubic meters per day (6.6 IMGD) -- adequate to serve the equivalent
of 230,000 people. The sewerage works are in accord with the proposals on
the First Stage Program for Sewerage and Drainage for Nairobi prepared by
consultants (SWECO of Sweden) as part of the long-term sewerage needs of
the city. NCC will appoint consultants to do the detailed engineering for
sewerage works which is expected to start by mid-1975.
3.07      Technical Assistance:  The project would finance costs of the
Project Department and of detailed engineering and construction supervision.
Also included are the financing of studies and project monitoring and
evaluation.
3.08      Studies:  The studies to be undertaken as part of the project
include: (a) municipal finance and functions throughout Kenya to be con-
ducted jointly by the Government and the International Monetary Fund;
(b) NCC Housing Operations; and (c) preparation of future site and service
and upgrading schemes in Nairobi and other urban areas. The joint GOK/IMF
Finance Study will take into account the findings of the Government's
Working Party on Municipal Finances whose report is under consideration,
and provide technical details on how the Government should deal with the
financial crisis facing the country's local governments. The Government
has already requested IMF assistance and the terms of reference for the study
have been agreed between the Government and the IMF. The NCC Study, to be
carried out by consultants under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank,
will result in proposals for the reorganization of Council's housing operations,
including budgeting and managerial techniques. Terms of reference for the
study are shown in Annex 11. Preparation of follow-up projects mentioned
under (c) above will be done under the direction of the Ministry of Housing
and Social Services in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank. Terms of reference are attached as Annex 12.
3.09      Monitoring:  Monitoring and evaluation of the project will be done
by a team from the University of Nairobi under the supervision of the Planning
Section of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. The evaluation will also
focus on the project's effect on the complex socio-economic patterns of low-
income families. The Ministry of Finance and Planning has agreed to monitor
and evaluate the project for a duration and in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank.
3.10      Nutrition:  Over the project implementation period, UNICEF will
assist the Nairobi City Council to carry out a survey of nutrition needs in
sample low-income areas in the city, to review the current NCC nutrition
program which consists primarily of supplementary feeding, and to formulate



- 9 -
a possible pilot nutrition project. UNICEF is prepared to fund a survey
and to consider financial assistance to NCC for an appropriate pilot scheme
resulting from such a survey. UNICEF has committed about US$15,000 for this
purpose.
B. Design Standards
3.11      The project site at Dandora was chosen from among nine sites on
the basis of conformity with the city's development plan (Annex 1), suit-
ability for low-income housing, and easy accessibility to present and
planned employment centers. The journeys by bus to the city center or to
the main industrial area, both about 10 km away, take 15-25 minutes and
monthly transport costs would average about 7% of target household monthly
income which is considered reasonable. 1/ Two other industrial areas, Dandora
Industrial Estate and Ruaraka, are within walking distance (2 km ) of the
project site. These areas are expected to expand rapidly over the next
few years because of the off-site infrastructure provided under this project
and the Nairobi Water Supply Project (Loan No. 714-KE). The off-site
employment will be supplemented by jobs in the project area, first in the
construction of the project and in the service sector. The 400 market stalls
included in the project are expected to generate about 1,000 jobs. Service
sector employment can be expected to increase as the project area population
grows.
3.12      The site layout is designed to minimize public land and infra-
structure investment per area served and to maximize individual responsibility.
Lots are arranged in lateral blocks with rows of service wet cores back-to-
back. This configuration is the most economical in terms of the infrastructure
networks. The layout also provides for flexibility in the overall site plan-
ning to introduce variety and accommodate future change.  The community
facilities, including land reserves for commercial use and secondary schools,
are concentrated on a central spine which reduces costs considerably. Des-
criptions of the physical planning and design standards employed in the
project are contained in Annexes 4 and 5.
3.13      Lot sizes are small and have enabled the project to achieve relatively
high densities. Gross densities average 32 lots or 160-300 persons per hectare
assuming 5-10 persons per lot.
3.14      Standards of utility servicing and unit costs are presented in
Annex 5. All lots will have individual water supply and water-borne sewerage
provided in contractor-built sanitary core units. These standards are
considered reasonable in view of the savings achieved through the smaller lot
sizes. The capital costs per lot for the various options range from KI 310
(US$870) to KE 355 (US$995) for Option A lots which constitute two-thirds of
1/   K Sh 1.2 - 1.4 round trip, assuming one employee per household.



- 10 -
the project, from K6 490 (US$1,370) to K6 530 (US$1,485) for Option B lots
representing about one-third, and KS6 825 (US$2,310) for Opticn C -- roughly
5% of lots. For details see Annex 9.
3.15      Community facilities designs are based on a simple modular system
(see Annex 4). By using the same structural system for all community facili-
ties, costs are reduced by one-third in comparison with similar facilities
built to the usual NCC standards.
C. Cost Estimates
3.16      Cost estimates for site preparation, on-site servicing and core
units are based on detailed engineering for about 700 lots and preliminary
engineering for the remainder. Estimates for trunk infrastructure are
based on preliminary engineering. Total project costs are estimated at
'G 10.54 (US$29.52) million at January 1975 base prices. Physical contin-
gencies of 15% on lot preparation and infrastructure, and 5% on community
facilities and core units are included. Price escalation has been calculated
at 15% in 1975 and 12% annually for the period 1976 through 1979. Foreign
exchange costs are estimated at about 26%. The main costs categories are
summarized in the following table with detailed cost estimates presented in
Annex 5.



- 11 -
Cost Estimates
% of Total
KL'OOO                       US$'000          Project
Local   Foreign   Total  Local   Foreign   Total  Costs
1.  Site Preparation  109         9        118    305        27       332      1.6
2.  On-Site Infra-
structure         803      268      1,071  2,250       750    3,000    14.4
3.  Community Facili-
ties              295       98        393    824       275    1,099      5.3
4.  Core Units       1,146      382      1,528  3,209    1,070    4,279    20.6
5.  Materials
Loan Fund       1,145       -       1-)145  3,205       -      3,205    15.4
6.  Trunk Infra-
structure       1,461      702     2,163  4,092    1,965    6,057    29.2
7.  Technical
Assistance        466      477        943  1,304    1,336    2,640    13.5
8.  Subtotals        5,425   1,936       7,361 15,189    5,423   20,612   100
9.  Contingencies:
Physical          364      223        587  1,019       624    1,643
(7.9% of base
cost)
Price           1,972      623      2,595  5,522    1,744    7,266
(32% of row
8 + 9)
Total      7,761   2,782    10,543 21,731    7,790   29,521
D. Financing
3.17      The sources of funds for the project are proposed as follows:
KL million          US$ million
IDA                   2.86                  8.00
IBRD                  2.86                  8.00
GOK/NCC               4.82                 13.52
TOTAL                10.54                 29.52



- 12 -
E. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.18      Civil works components of the project totalling K1 4.45 (US$12.44)
million and consisting of preparation and servicing of lots, construction of
core units, access roads, trunk sewers and stabilization ponds, would be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. However, the relatively small size and staging of the contracts
and the capability of local contractors, makes it unlikely that foreign
firms would be interested in these contracts. Advertising would be made in
local papers with notifications to embassies. An active local construction
industry exists (Annex 3) and domestic contractors would be accorded a pre-
ferential margin of 7.5% over foreign contractors in the evaluation of bids.
3.19      Contracts totalling Kh 0.90 (US$2.52) million comprising the con-
struction of the community facilities, the first phase area (1,000 lots) and
small urgent sewer works, would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with NCC procedures and satisfactory to the Pank.
Because of the need to synchronize the construction of community facilities
with population increase in the project area, the facilities will be grouped
into contracts of two or three units. Such contracts are,likely to attract
only local bids. Building materials loans worth KE 1.1 (US$3.2) million would
be made in cash with lot allottees purchasing their own materials.
3.20      IDA/Bank would disburse against:  (i) 55% of the total costs of
site preparation and servicing, construction of core units, community facili-
ties; (ii) 55% of materials loan fund; (iii) 55% of the total costs of trunk
sewers and stabilization ponds; (iv) 100% of foreign expenditures or 50% of
local expenditures on consultants' services; and (v) 50% of local expendi-
tures for Project Department Operations. Funds from the IDA credit would be
disbursed first. Disbursements would be fully documented with the exception
of the expenditures for Project Department operations, for which disbursement
would be made on the basis of a statement of expenditures certified by the
Project Manager. The documentation of the latter certification is not submittLed
for review but retained by the Borrower and available for inspection by the
Bank during the course of project supervision. The estimated disbursement
schedule is shown in Annex 13. Any surplus arising from the completion of the
project at lower than estimated cost (including conting,ncies) would be used,
with prior approval of the Bank, to provide additional Option A lots.
3.21      Due to the urgency of Nairobi's shelter problem and the need to
initiate the NCC's Housing Operations Study (para 3.08) as quickly as
possible, retroactive financing of US$300,000 to cover expenditures incurred
after December 1, 1974 is proposed for detailed engineering, Project Depart-
ment operations, and the Housing Study.



- 13 -
F. Execution Schedule
3.22      The project would be constructed in two phases of 1,000 and 5,000
lots over 3-1/2 years with expected completion in mid-1978. Extension of
self-help housing with the aid of materials loans will take an additional
18 months. Consequently, the project's closing date will be June 30, 1980.
The execution schedule is shown in Chart IBRD 9324.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Water and Sewerage Department
4.01      The sewerage component of the project will be implemented by the
NCC's Water and Sewerage Department (WSD) which is responsible for provision
and distribution of water supply, and the collection and treatment of sewage
for the city. The WSD was established under a Bank loan (No. 714 KE) made
to NCC on December 11, 1970 and has implemented that project. While WSD has
experienced some management difficulties mainly from staff shortages, its
operating performance and financial results have been satisfactory, and it
has been able to meet the financial requirements specified in the covenants
of the Nairobi Water Supply Project (Loan 714 KE). The department is fully
capable of executing this component of the project assuming the detailed
engineering is done by the consultants (para 3.06). During negotiations it
was agreed that NCC will no later than September 30, 1975 submit to the Bank
a plan for reorganization of its Water and Sewerage Department. NCC also
agreed to impose suitable sewerage rates to meet operating costs and debt
service and other charges on long term indebtedness incurred for its sewerage
(Annex 6, para 35).
B. The Project Department
4.02      NCC has created a special Project Department to implement the site
and service component of the project. The Department was necessary because
the Council's Housing and Social Services Department is not capable of imple-
menting a project of this size and complexity under its current organization
and staffing. The Housing Operations Study (para 3.08) will make recommenda-
tions for reorganizing the Council's shelter delivery system and as reforms
are instituted, the responsibility for completed lots and Project Department
staff required for the self-help lot development and management will be
transferred back into the department.
4.03      Rather than reporting to a series of Council Committees, the
Project Department will be responsible to a single Committee which will
consist of members from City Council and co-opted members from the Ministries
of Finance, Local Government, Housing and Social Services, the National



- 14 -
Housing Corporation, and the Provincial Commissioner for Nairobi. Its secretary
will be the Town Clerk, who will serve as the principal administrative link
between the Project Department and the Council as a whole. The Committee was
established by NCC under the same resolution.
4.04      The Project Department would consist of about 13 professional staff
in three divisions: Technical, Financial and Community Development (see Chart
9325). The Technical Division will be responsible for supervising detailed
engineering and preparation of tender documents for site infrastructure, wet
cores, community facilities, and for ensuring proper supervision of construc-
tion. Technical staff with specific building skills will be available on site
to show allottees how to perform technical tasks. In order to illustrate the
techniques of housing construction, the Division will also erect demonstration
units on the site.
4.05      The Finance Division will be responsible for keeping all project
accounts involving expenditures related to the project. The Division will
develop an accounting and financial management system acceptable to the Bank.
At negotiations, it was agreed that the Department will prepare and send to
the Bank quarterly financial reports and annual project accounts audited
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. Provisionally audited
Project accounts which should be separate even after the merger (para. 4.09)
should be forwarded to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal
year until the end of the project construction (Dec. 31, 1981).  Unaudited
general NCC accounts should also be forwarded to the Bank within six months
of the end of each fiscal year and comprehensive NCC accounts audited by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank should be furnished to the Bank
within 9 months of the end of each fiscal year.
4.06      The Community Development Division will publicize the project,
solicit and process applications, orient and train allottees prior to the
occupation of lots, work with families during the construction phase, and
assist residents to develop the institutions and programs which will enable
them to create a genuine community. These tasks are essential to the pro-
ject's objective of comprehensive community development.
4.07      The Project Manager, Deputy Project Manager and Division Heads are
being appointed in consultation with the Bank. In order to secure senior
staff with the competence and experience necessary to implement the scheme,
salary scales will be comparable to those for Government civil servants.
Arrangements will be made for the secondment of experienced staff to the
Department where appropriate. Appointment of staff members below the level
of Division Heads will be the responsibility of the Project Manager.
4.08      The project implementation schedule is shown in Chart 9324.  The
Department will be responsible for specifying the sequencing of events and
exact steps involved in executing each aspect of the Department's work,
including allocation, orientation and self-help shelter development. This
exercise constitutes a practical and effective orientation of Department
staff.



- 15 -
4.09      The Project Department will be integrated with the Council's
reorganized Housing Department following the Study of the existing NCC
housing operations (para 3.08). It is expected that the study will be
completed no later than June 30, 1976. Within six months after completion
of the study, NCC shall prepare and put into effect a plan to reorganize
the Hiousing Departmient and merge it with the Dandora Project Department.
C. Allocation /
4.10      Except for Option C lots which will be sold at market prices, only
applicants with monthly household incomes of less than K Sh 650 (US$90) will
be eligible for lots in the project. The cheapest lots (Option A, representing
65% of the total) will be allocated to families earning between K Sh 280 and
K Sh 500 per month. The next category (Option B, representing 30% of the
total) will be allocated to families earning K Sh 450 to K Sh 650 per month.
The overlap in the two categories (i.e., between K Sh 450 and K Sh 500 per
month) allows for improvement in income. An additional 5% of the lots
including demonstration units (Option C) will be sold at market prices in
order to encourage a wide mix of income groups in the scheme and to cross-
subsidize the costs of approximately half of the lots, all in Option A. The
per lot subsidy, estimated at about K6 55 represents approximately 20% of the
Option A lot development cost (see Annex 9, table 2).
4.11      The criteria for eligibility -- in addition to the monthly income
requirements of K Sh 280 to K Sh 650 -- are that the applicant:
(a)  have at least two years residency in Nairobi;
(b)  be head of a family residing in the city; and
(c)  have no other residential property in Nairobi.
4.12      Allocation will be done within the Project Department by a com-
puterized random number program. NCC has a well functioning though under-
utilized computer facility. A waiting list will also be selected in the
same manner for lots not taken up by the original allottees or those taken
over by the Department should the original owners fail to fulfill their
obligations (see para 4.15). In order to ensure public confidence in the
selection procedures and to insulate them from political pressures, each
step in the process will be well publicized. A list of certified applicants
and their application numbers will be posted prior to final selection, and
a similar list of allottees or prospective tenants and those on the waiting
list will be made public as soon as selection is completed.
1/  This section is a schedule to the Project Agreement.



- 16 -
D.  Tenure, Lot Transfer and Eviction -/
4.13      Land ownership will be retained by the Government of Kenya;
occupants will be given a 50-year lease. Allottees will be expected to
reside on the lot but may rent rooms to lodgers. Sub-letting of rooms
should allow the project to reach even lower income groups and to con-
solidate more rapidly. The lease will require an acceptable structure to be
erected on the lots and specify the period within which it should be built.
4.14      In order to minimize speculation, NCC will act as intermediary
in any sales or transfer of Option A and B lots for the first five years
after individual allocation. Tenants wishing to sell or transfer lots will
return them to NCC in return for compensation for improvements (cost of
materials plus an imputed cost of labor). NCC would then offer the lot to
households on the waiting list at a price which covers both the existing
mortgages and the improvements. At negotiations, NCC agreed to prohibit each
tenant from selling, transferring or otherwise disposing of his rights to
tenancy except to NCC until the fifth anniversary of his lot occupation,
and that fair compensation would be paid.
4.15      Standard NCC clauses enabling the Project Department to repossess
the lots and any buildings on them in cases of default will be written into
the mortgage agreement. In the event that an allottee accumulates a two-
month arrearage, a warning notice will be issued. The appropriate community
development personnel would be notified in order to help the allottee find
a means of paying off his obligations. Should the cumulative delinquency
reach four months, a final warning will be issued indicating that failure
to reduce such delinquency within a specified period will lead to eviction.
If no improvement is made, an eviction notice would ensue at the six-month
point allowing the occupant an additional four weeks to vacate. This notice
will be signed by the Project Manager or by the Director of the Housing
Department when the Unit is merged with the latter. Recourse to the courts
will not be necessary for enforcement of eviction. At negotiations, NCC
reaffirmed its intention to evict and terminate the leasehold rights of any
tenant who becomes six months delinquent in monthly payments for materials
and lot loans.
V. COST RECOVERY AND PRICING
5.01      The sources of funds for the project is shown in para 3.17.  The
Borrower will be the Government of Kenya which will on-lend both the US$8.0
million IDA credit and the US$8.0 million Bank loan to Nairobi City Council
at 8-1/2% interest for 25 years, including a grace period of 4 years. The
Government of Kenya will lend its contribution to NCC on the same terms as
1/  This section is a schedule to the Project Agreement.



- 17 -
the National Housing Corporation (NHC) lends to other local authorities of
6.5% over 25 years. The NHC terms are part of established Government policy
on lending to municipal areas.
5.02      Cost Allocation:  As no standardized policy of housing charges
presently exists in Nairobi, a new system has been devised which ensures
that the project will be largely self-financing and therefore replicable.
Total project costs have been allocated between NCC and plotholders as
shown in Table 1 of Annex 9. The city will bear those costs typically
recovered through utility tariffs, user fees and property rates such as
trunk infrastructure, on-site water reticulation, tarmacing of bus routes,
community facilit:ies including related land development and servicing costs,
technical assistance and landscaping. Land reserved for commercial under-
takings and small. industries bear part of the servicing costs on the basis
of assignable costs. Such land will be turned over to the Commissioner of
Lands who will lease it to individual entrepreneurs at market rents. Costs
charged directly to lot holders include site preparation, lot demarcation,
and on-site infrastructure attributable to residential use (roads, sewerage,
street lighting, and a share of refuse collection facilities) and full costs
of core units ancl materials loans. During negotiations it was agreed that
NCC will recover from tenants essentially the following: 90% of the total
cost of site preparation, 50% of the total cost of on-site infrastructure,
100% of the costs of core units and building materials loans, and 100% of
design and engineering fees associated with the above items. In addition,
a surcharge ammounting to 5% of the above items will be made as a risk
reserve.
5.03      The costs of the Project Department will not be charged to the lot
holders immediately for the following reasons:
(a) a subsitantial element of these costs represents the
duplication of NCC responsibilities normally financed
through Council general revenues; and
(b)  other NCC housing beneficiaries currently escape most
administrative costs. The study of NCC housing
operations is expected to develop a system for
charging occupants of NCC rental housing, tenant
purchase housing and site and service units (including
the beneficiaries of this project) for administrative
costs.
5.04      Charges to Lot Holders:  Except for the 330 units which will be
sold at market prices, lots are priced on the basis of actual costs in order
to reach low-income households. The infrastructure costs discussed in para
5.02 including site preparation, design and engineering costs and interest
during construction would be charged to lot holders on the basis of cost per
square meter. Beneficiaries will be able to choose between six options
which differ by lot size and the type of core unit. Thus, three lot sizes



- 18 -
will be offered with a built serviced wet core (Option A), and the same three
lot sizes with a complete first room (Option B). A limited number of two-room
units (Option C) will be available in one lot size only and sold on the open market.
5.05      Charges reflect the following terms to households:  an interest
rate and maturity of 8.5% over 30 years under Option A, and 8.5% over 20 years
for Option B. These terms were agreed at negotiations. The rate of interest
is between prevailing market rates (about 9%) and the rate currently charged
on NCC housing (7.5%). Two maturities have been chosen to reflect the
differing requirements of each option towards materials financing and to in-
troduce a wider spread between monthly payments on the two options (Annex 9).
Allottees will be required to make a down payment of K Sh 550 including a
deposit of K Sh 400 and K Sh 150 for water supply and sewer connection fees.
This amount constitutes between 5% and 9% of lot costs.
5.06      Material loans are included for up to KE 240, sufficient to build
two rooms. Repayments are based on the same terms as lot preparation,
servicing and core units, with a 5-year grace period for Option A. These
terms were agreed at negotiations. Allottees may take any amount up to the
maximum. Materials loans will be paid in cash according to the following
formula: drawings of loan funds may be made in amounts up to the K Sh400
for the dwelling deposit plus the value of materials in the house on the lot
subject to approval by the Project Department. All allottees will be qualifiecl
to borrow in this way, up to KL 240 or KE 120 depending on whether they are
in Option A or B (see Annex 8).
5.07      The charge shown for land rent reflects Kenya's present land policy.
All assignable land is leased from the Commissioner for Lands and Settlement
for 3% of unimproved value for 10 years and 5% thereafter. Only the imputed
rental for the residential area is to be recovered from lot holders. A risk
reserve against bad debts will be established at 5% of monthly mortgage
payments. This amount is considered adequate to cover the small loss in-
curred on delinquent payments and default assuming there is an efficient
collection machinery, and that eviction procedures are enforced (see para 4.15).
5.08      A grace period of 5 years on building materials loans will be ex-
tended to allottees of Option A in order to encourage faster consolidation.
This was agreed at negotiations. The grace period will not apply
however, to occupants of Option B since they will have one-room core units
from the beginning and would be borrowing only one room's worth of building
materials. The interest foregone for Option A during the grace period would
be capitalized and the full amount repaid over 25 instead of 30 years.
5.09      The expected monthly payments for each option are as follows:



- 19 -
Monthly Charges 1/
(K Shillings)
A_B
Item                   (100 m2) (120 m2)  (140 n2)  (100 m2) (120 m2) (140 m2)
Total number of lots          1,225    1,420      1,225        570       660      570
Lot preparation, servicing
and core units                   37        40         52        83        87       90
Risk reserve (5%)                  2        2          3         4         4         5
Land rent  2/                      4        4          5         4         4         5
Sub-total -
Lot mortgage              43        46        60         91        95      100
Rates  3/                          6        7          8          6        7         8
Utilities  4/                     24    -  24         24        24        24        24
Sub-total -
Mortgage plus
utilities                 73        77        92        121       126      132
Building materials loans         0-54     0-54       0-54      0-21      0-21      0-21
Total Range:
First five years  5/              73       77         92     121-142  127-147  132-153
Thereafter                    73-127   77-131    92-146    121-142  127-147  132-153
1/  Including physical contingencies of 15% on infrastructure and 5% on buildings,
design and engineering fees of 10% and interest during construction. Down-
payments of KSh4OO have been deducted from the principal of all lots, and a
further K655 in cross subsidies from the costs of about half the lots--all in
Option A.
2/  Based on 3% of unimproved site value.
3/  Based on a 4.5% of unimproved site value.
4/  Based on tariffs effective January 1, 1975; utilities payments for project
participants would be expected to rise in accordance with the overall tariff
structure.
5/  During first five years Option A lot holders enjoy a grace period for the
material loan.



- 20 -
5.10      Affordability:  Based on the above charges and assuming expenditure
for shelter and services of roughly 25% of household monthly income, a monthly
income of about K Sh 280 would be required for the cheapest lot in Option A.
A target income group of K Sh 280 to K Sh 500 has therefore been set for this
option and a target of K Sh 450 to K Sh 650 for Option B. The monthly payments
for Option A will experience a one-time jump at the end of the five-year
material loan grace period. However, by that time the affected households
should have a somewhat higher income and will have consolidated enough to
allow at least one room for subletting. Extensive subletting now takes place
in Nairobi's low-income housing areas with room rentals averaging between
K Sh 100 to K Sh 150 per month.
5.11      At 1974 estimated income levels, Option A lots constituting two-
thirds of the project would be affordable by households as low as the 20th
percentile in the city's income distribution curve. Option B lots constituting
the remaininR third of the project would be affordable by households in the
second quintile in the income scale with most of the lots going to households
between the 30th and 40th percentile.
5.12      Project Cash Flow:  The expected flow of funds generated by the
residential component 1/ (Annex 9) shows a cumulative surplus ranging from
Kb 25,000 (US$70,000) to Kb 380,000 (US$1,064,000) during the first ten years
of the project. The sale price of Option C units, estimated at Kb 1,200 is
critical to the realization of this surplus. However, even if the profit
on these units was reduced to half that expected, the cumulative account would
only experience a deficit of Kb 15,600 (US$42,560) in 1982 which would be
eliminated by 1984.
5.13      The non-revenue producing project items (Annex 9, Table 4) comprising
community facilities, technical assistance and maintenance of infrastructure
will increase the projected deficit on NCC's general fund by about Kb 50,000
in 1976 rising to about Kb 380,000 by 1980 (Annex 10, Tables 3 and 4). The pre-
carious state of NCC's general revenue fund and the steps being undertaken by
Government to deal with this situation have been discussed in paras 2.06 and
2.15.
VI. JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC BENEFIT
6.01      The project, as a precursor of other site and service projects in
Kenya including Nairobi, is expected to have substantial influence on the
1/   Excludes trunk infrastructure, community facilities and technical
assistance. The costs of water supply and sewerage will be carried by
NCC's Water and Sewerage Department whose charges are intended to yield
a certain rate of return on assets for water supply and to cover
operation, maintenance and debt service for sewerage (see Annex 6). The
roads, community facilities and technical assistance are covered by
property rates and Government subventions.



- 21 -
Government's approach to urban shelter and infrastructure for lower income
groups. It should demonstrate the feasibility of large scale self-help schemes
which can lead to significant reductions in public investment required
to serve the rapidly expanding urban population. The project would also in-
clude studies designed to formulate future projects consisting of both site
and services and squatter upgrading, as well as strengthen the financial base
and housing implementation capability of local government.
6.02      The project is expected to generate a wide range of benefits
including improved living conditions for at least 6,000 households and
increased output in the small-scale construction industry for self-help.
Furthermore, the project should have substantial redistributive effects by
directing NCC resources into site and services instead of conventional housing
units which have ordinarily gone to the middle and upper income groups.
6.03      The most readily quantifiable benefits have been measured in terms
of a stream of imputed market rental values over 40 years for the dwellings
to be constructed under the project. The rents have been assumed at K Sh 120
per room per month based on data from studies of existing low-income areas.
The costs include land costs (market value), on-site infrastructure and house
construction, and maintenance. Labor input for house construction has been
shadow priced by a factor of 25% in view of the relatively high unemployment
rate in Nairobi of about 13% for the city as a whole and up to 20% for
squatter areas and the fact that much of the work on self-help housing is
typically done by persons who are not part of the active labor force. The
project's rate of return is about 19%. Reducing the imputed rents by 25%
i.e. to K Sh 90 per room still yields a rate of return of about 14.6%.
6.04      The justification for the sewerage component is presented in Annex 6.
The economic rate of return is estimated at about 15.5%. In addition, the
component will significantly reduce pollution in the Nairobi River where large
amounts of excess raw sewerage are being dumped at present. The water further
downstream of Nairobi has a number of possible uses including drinking, irri-
gation, and recreation associated with tourism (Annex 6).
6.05      Risks:  The implementation schedule is considered realistic.  However,
other projects in the region have experienced delays due primarily to staffing
problems. Specific efforts have been made to avoid this (para 4.04 and 4.07)
and recruitment of staff is already underway. Should delays occur nonetheless,
the result would probably be some increase in project costs. This might shift
the project's target income groups slightly upward but not to the extent of
jeopardizing the basic project objectives of demonstrating the suitability of
this approach and providing shelter for low-income households in Nairobi. A
second area of risk involves the rate of defaults on project mortgages and
building materials loans, as there has been no directly comparable prior
experience in Nairobi. If higher than anticipated in the risk reserve (para
5.09), any resulting project deficits would have to be met from NCC general
funds.



- 22 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      The main agreements reached at negotiations were that NCC will:
(a) not engage in substantial demolition of unauthorized
dwellings in areas subject to its jurisdiction (para 2.13);
(b) no later than September 30, 1975 submit to the Bank a
plan for reorganization of its Water and Sewerage Department.
NCC also agreed to impose suitable sewerage charges to
cover operating costs and to meet periodic repayments
and interest and other charges on long term indebtedness
incurred for its sewerage operations (para 4.01);
(c) execute the major part of the project through a Dandora
Project Department reporting solely to a Committee
established by NCC to oversee the implementation of the
project (para 4.03 and 4.04);
(d) furnish to the Bank
(i) provisionally audited project accounts and financial
statements promptly after the end of each fiscal
year but in any case not later than six months after
the end of such year (para 4.05);
(ii) unaudited NCC accounts and financial statements not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year (para 4.05);
(iii) audited accounts and financial statements including
those of the project, audited in accordance with
sound financial principles and by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank, as soon as available
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each year (para 4.05);
(e) undertake a study of the Council's Housing Operations to
be completed no later than June 30, 1976 and no later than
six months after completion of the study, prepare and put
into effect a plan for the reorganization of its Housing
Department and the integration of the Dandora Project
Department with the reorganized Housing Department (para
4.09);
(f) grant tenants leases for a term of fifty years, which will
permit them to sublet rooms (para 4.13);



- 23 -
(g)  recover from tenants essentially the following:  90% of
the total cost of preparation of the project site, 50%
of the total cost of infrastructure, 100% of the total
costs of core units and other structures constructed
on plots by NCC, and 100% of design and engineering fees
associated with the above items (para 5.02). The repayments
terms of plot loans and materials loans are to be 8-1/2%
interest and 20 or 30 years for Option B and A lots
respectively (paras 5.05 and 5.06);
(h)  prohibit each tenant from selling, transfering or otherwise
disposing of his rights to tenancy except to NCC until the
fifth anniversary of his lot occupation, and pay fair
compensation on reacquisition (para 4.14); and
(1)  evict and terminate the leasehold rights of any tenant
who becomes six months delinquent in monthly repayments
for materials and plot loans (para 4.15).
7.02      The main agreements with the Government of Kenya were that it will:
(a)  undertake a study of municipal finance in Kenya with the
assistance of the IMF or other experts acceptable to the
Bank (para 2.06);
(b)  KE 4.82 (US$13.50) million financing contribution toward
the project the bulk of which is to be on-lent to the
Nairobi City Council at a rate of interest of at least
6.5%, equivalent the normal rate charged by Government
sources for Municipal Housing Projects (paras 3.16 and
5.01);
(c)  on-lend IDA/Bank funds to NCC at 8.5% and 25 years including
a 4-year grace period (para 5.01);
(d)  provide NCC, or enable NCC to provide itself, with funds
adequate to meet its reasonable recurrent and development
expenditure until such time as NCC through the implement-
ation of the results of the IMF assisted local finance
study or otherwise no longer nequires such assistance
(para 2.15);
(e)  employ consultants to undertake the preparation of a
detailed site and service and upgrading program for
Nairobi and at least two other towns in accordance with
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (para 3.08); and
(f) consult with the Association prior to making any substantial
changes in its policies regarding squatters (para 2.13).



- 24 -
7.03      With the assurances indicated above, the project is suitable for
a credit uf US$8 million equivalent on standard IDA terms and a loan of
US$8 million equivalent for a term of 25 years including a grace period of
4 years.



A1MEX 1
Page 1
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
The City of Nairobi:  A PlannlniL_text 1/
A.  Population, Employment, Tncome
1. *The past and projected population of Nairobi is presented below:
Nairobi PopaUIation
-  195-2 2/   1969 2/         1971 3/            1975 3/          1980 3/
%Change             %Change          %Change          %Chang
Total     Total    p.a.       Total    p.a.      Total   D.a.    Total   n.a.
Africans       231,744   422,912   9.0%       502,500   9.oz    682,300   7.8%  969,600   7.3%
Asians          86,922    67,189  -3.8%        64,000  -2.5%      61,200  -1.1%   57,900  -1.1%
Europeans       28,765    19,185  -6.0%        18,700  -1.2%      19,500   1%     20,500   1g
Total
34'7,h31   509,286   5.6%     585,200   6.8%    763,000   6.8%1,048,000   6.6%
1/  Sections A through C of this Annex rely heavily on the N4rob5 City Clouncills
Nairobi Metropolitan Growth Strategv also known as the Urban Study.
2/ Census year.
3/ Nairobi City Council projections (see Nairobi Metropolitan Gro,fth Strate-a,
Vol. II, Appendix 1).



ANNEX 1
Page 2
2.        In 1969 Nairobi's region -- some 12,000 m  had a population of
about 1,344,000. Nearly 810,000 lived in predominantly rural areas and
the remainder in Nairobi (509,000) and small urban centers such as Thika
and Machakos. Projections show that by the end of the century, the region
is likely to contain about 4 million people or 13% of the expected national
total.
3.        In 1967 the last year for which data is available, Nairobi's GDP
was put at Kh119 (US$333) million and employment at 171,500. Unemployment
was estimated at about 13%. Since then it is estimated that the city's GDP
has been and will continue to grow at between 7.6% and 8.5% annually and
employment at between 3.3% and 5%. This compared to about 7% annual growth
in Kenya's GDP between 1964 and 1970 and employment growth of about 2%.
Accordingly GDP is forecast to be KM474 (US$327) million in 1985 and M1,322
(US$3,701) million in 2000. Employment would be about 523,000 and 646,000
respectively. However, unemployment is expected to grow worse.
4.        The existing and projected income distribution for the city is
shown in Table 1.
B. Nairobi Physical Plan
5.        The above information on population, employment, income and its
distribution, formed the context within which a broad physical structure
for the city to year 2000 was formulated. The standards and land require-
ments used were: a gross residential density of 100 persons per hectare
for housing areas and 50 workers per hectare for major employment centers.
It was assumed that land demand for commercial areas would remain small.
6.        Three metropolitan growth concepts formed the basis for formula-
ting possible urban growth strategies.
-    accretion at periphery of built-up areas.
-    linear development along transport corridors.
-    limiting growth of central city and initiating development of
satellite towns.
The alternatives resulting from these concepts were then evaluated based on
their performance regarding movement, accessibility, adaptability etc. The
evaluation was carried out in three cycles and resulted in the choice of a
linear form linking Nairobi to Thika with some accretion around Athi River
(see Map 11068). Based on this long-term strategy, a medium term plan (1985)
was then defined.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
C. Urban Study Recommendations on Major Aspects of Urban Growth
7.        The Nairobi Urban Study then formulated a series of recommendations
relating to various aspects of urban growth such as employment, transport,
housing and other services. These recommendations were seen as creating a
context for possibLe investment programs to be carried out within the context
of the above physical plan.
Employment. With respect to employment, the study recommended
both direct and indirect action by the City. Important among
them were deregulating and promotion of informal sector activities,
vocational training, and provision of better job market informa-
tion through more efficient labor exchanges.
Housing. The City was urged to formulate a shelter program based
on standards that inhabitants can afford in order to minimize housing
subsidies, to promote the use of local building materials and un-
skilled labor, and to emphasize self-help. The study also under-
scored the need to encourage a greater flow of private capital into
housing and to promote squatter upgrading and site and services.
Transport. The study recommended a movement system based on a
policy of minimizing capital investment by locating workers houses
near employment, and developing a cheap but efficient system of
public transport such as busways.
Administration. Lastly, the study recommended a strengthened NCC
department to ensure continuous comprehensive urban planning, the
setting up of a City Housing Agency responsible for formulating
and executing a shelter policy and program, and the strengthening
of the budgetary system in the Council.
D. Nairobi City Council: Structure and Operations
8.        The Council has 40 elected councillors and 3 nominated members who
represent special interests. The Provincial Commissioner represents the
Provincial Administration, and the East African Community and the Neighboring
Kiambu County Council each nominate one member. The elected councillors
serve four-year terms and may be re-elected. At a special meeting held each
August the councillors elect Nairobi's Mayor, who serves a two-year term, and
Deputy Mayor, who serves for one year. The mayoralty is not an intrinsically
powerful position. Although the Mayor presides over meetings of the full
Council and may cast a tie-breaking vote, most of the responsibilities asso-
ciated with the job are essentially ceremonial.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
9.        The Council composes itself into eight standing committees responsible
for specific functions. The standing committees are:
(a)  General Purposes Committee
(b) Finance Committee
(c) Housing and Social Services Committee
(d) Public Health Committee
(e) Works and Town Planning Committee
(f) Staff Committee
(g) Water and Sewage Committee
(h) Education Committee
The General Purposes Committee is in many respects the most important committee;
it discusses major policy questions and is composed of the Mayor and Deputy
Mayor, who act as its chairman and vice-chairman, and the chairmen of the other
committees, as well as several other members. Most of the committees also
appoint sub-committees to handle specific matters.
10.       Because there are so many committees and meetings are often long,
the Council's senior officers devote a very large proportion of their time
to committee matters. Under the current division of responsibility, any
particular project is likely to fall under the jurisdiction of several com-
mittees and officers find that they must present proposals repeatedly and
secure authorization from a number of committees before projects can be im-
plemented.
11.       In 1971, the City Council's administrative staff consisted of 12,757
employees, as follows:
Salaried staff        3,850
Wage staff            5,271
Teachers              1,965
Casual workers        1,671
12,757



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Staff members work for seven departments, which are headed by a Town Clerk,
City Treasurer, City Engineer, General Manager of the Water and Sewerage
Department, Medical Officer of Health, City Education Officer, and Director
of Social Services and Housing. The sections within each Department are
listed in Table 2 which indicates the types of functions performed by each
department. City Council has had a difficult time securing qualified staff
members to fill all of its approved positions. Most of the departments have
only been able to fill 80 to 90% of their approved positions. These diffi-
culties are due to the shortage of skilled Kenyan technicians coupled with
the relatively low salaries in NCC compared to Central Government and the
private sector. In 1972, NCC reduced the gap between its salaries and those
of Central Government by about two-thirds. In spite of this improvement,
NCC still relies heavily on non-citizens for certain technical skills. In
addition to hiring non-citizens locally, the Council recruits expatriates
from abroad. In order to attract expatriates, the Council provides a variety
of expensive benefits, such as transportation, subsidized housing, and other
gratuities. Some technical workers are also supplied through bilateral
assistance programs. The City Engineer's and City Treasurer's Departments
are particularly dependent on foreign skills. In the Engineer's Department
in 1972, 77% of the staff in four technical grades were non-citizens; in
the Treasurer's Department 71% of the staff at senior levels were not Kenyans.
Relations between NCC and the National Government
12.       The parent ministry for the NCC, as well as Kenya's other local
authorities, is the Ministry of Local Government which has broad powers of
control over the City Council. The most important of these concern finances.
The Minister must approve the Council's budgets, including the number and
salaries of employees, and the scale of fees charged to the public for Council
services. Furthermore, the Minister has the power to audit the Council's
financial records and has broad powers of control over a wide range of admin-
istrative matters.
13.       The City Council regularly comes into contact with almost all of
the other Government ministries. For example, the City Education and Public
Health Departments are both subject to the regulations and control of the
corresponding national ministries. Much of the Council's finance for housing
projects is obtained from the National Housing Corporation, the executive
arm of the Ministry of Housing. The Council's Town Planning Section liaises
closely with the Commissioner of Lands and the Department of Urban and Rural
Physical Planning in the Ministry of Lands and Settlements over questions
concerning the use of land in Nairobi. The City Treasurer's Department
negotiates with the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning over the amount,
terms, and timing of its issues of bonds.
14.       Nairobi's national importance and the fact that responsibility for
governing the city is shared among so many agencies encouraged the Local
Government Commission of Inquiry (1966) to recommend the establishment of a



ANNEX 1
Page 6
development authority for the Nairobi metropolitan region. The Government
accepted this recommendation and a Nairobi Development Committee was set up
composed of Permanent Secretaries from eight ministries, the Nairobi Provincial
Commissioner, and the City Council's Chief Officers, under the chairmanship
of the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Local Government. The committee
met only a few times and then ceased to exist. Proposals are currently being
considered for the establishment of a new inter-governmental committee to
coordinate governmental programs in Nairobi.
15.       Relations between NCC and the Central Government are becoming
increasingly strained. This appears to reflect uncertainty about the future
role of local, especially municipal, Government in Kenya. The immediate
source of dispute is municipal finances; Government has not only been un-
willing to approve the level of spending requested by Council, but has also
not indicated how much money will be available in the medium term. In this
as in other areas, Government does not appear to be providing an adequate
policy guidance for NCC activities. It is hoped that the proposed IMF assisted
municipal finance study will accelerate the resolution of these problems.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF A SITS AND SERVICE PROJECT
Annual Hou8ehold Incoue: 1972, 1985 and 2000
,1972            1985       2000
Nairobi, Total Income of Households   164,000,000,   474,000,000    1,322,0309000
No. of Households                        135,730        324,000         670,000
Lowest 20% of Householis
Share of Total Income                     3.5%          2.8%             2.5%
Amount                        .     5,740,000    13,272,000      33,050,000
Average Income per household   -          214           208            247
Low-Middle, 20-40%
Share of Total Income                     6.8%           8.7%            11.0%
Amount                              11,152,000    41,238,000    145,420,000
Average Income per household              413           636           1,085
Middle, 40-60%
Share of Total Income                     13.0%          14.1%           17.0%
Armunt                              21,320,000     66,834,000     224,740,000
Average Income per household              777         1,027           1,677
Upper-Middle, 60-80%
Share of Total Income                   21.3%           21.4%           24.5%
Amount                               34,932,000  101,346,000     323,890,000
Average Income per household            1,286        r 1,560          2,417
Highest 20% of Households
Share of Total Income                    55.4%         53.0%           45.0%
Amount                             90,856,000   251,220,000     594,900,000
Average Income per household            3,352         3,869          4,440
All Households
Average Income per household.           1,208         1,460          1,973
1971 prices



AINNEX 1
Page 8
Table 2
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Departments and Sections of the lJairobi City Council
Town Clerk's Department
General Administration               City Hall Administration and
Litigation                              Restaurant
Contracts and Conveyance             Court of First Class Magistrate
Organization and Methods             Prosecution Office
Central Registry                     Licensing
Valuation and Rating                 City Inspectorate
Central Printing Unit                Dog Pound
City Treasurer's Department
Accountancy                          Graduated Personal Tax
Revenue                              Collection
Audit                                Purchasing
Costing                              Stores
Cash Office                          Establishment
Computer Center                      Training
City Engineer's Department
Central Administration               Operations and Maintenance
Design and Development               Building Works
Estates and Development              Electrical
Roads                                Parks
Architecture                         Transport
Quantity Surveying                  Highways
Tow-n Planning                       Fire Service
Water and Sewerage Department
General Administration               Source Works and Reservoirs
Water Supply Planninz                Sewerage Maintenance
'W!ater Supply M,'aintenance         ;ater Stores
Sewerage Planning                    Commercial



P'age 9
Table 2 (Cont'd)
Departments and Sections of the Nairobi City Council
Public Health Department
Health InsFectorate                  Dispensary Service
Innoculation Center                  Day Nurseries
Communicable Diseases Control        Registration of Births and
Cleansing Services  -                   Deaths
iaternity and Child Welfare         Funeral Service
City Education Department
General Administration               Supplies and ,,'ealis Service
Primary School Service               Special Schools Unit
Schools Advisory Service
Social Services arid Housing Department
General Administration                Hostels
Welfare and Recreation Unit          Library Service
Family Welfare Services              Trading Centers Unit
Housing Administration



ANNEX 2
Page 1
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Housing Development in Nairobi
A. Housing Stock and Output
The Private Sector
1.        The supply of housing in Nairobi is from three sub-sectors:
the private formal, the private informal, and the public. In 1970 roughly
one-third of Nairobi's population lived in housing supplied by the private
formal sub-sector. Although precise data on the private housing sector in
Nairobi are not available, virtually all of the units built by this sub-
sector range upwards of KSh 100,000 (US$14,000). Output dropped sharply
during the early and mid-1960s, caused mainly by the uncertainty felt by
many Asian skilled workers and supervisory staff. Table 1 indicates the
magnitude of the slump, which bottomed out in 1965 when the total floor
area of residential construction was only 7% of what it had been in 1957.
By-the early 1970s this sub-sector began to reach the level of output attain-
ed more than a decade earlier, when Nairobi had less than half its present
population of 730,000-although the population and income mix have changed
substantially. Although data on the number of units built each year is not
available, it is estimated that the private formal sub-sector has produced
a little over 1,000 units annually in recent years. The significant drop in
units completed in 1973 was due to shortages in supplies of imported building
aaterials and distribution problems of local materials, notably cement.
2.        In addition to medium- and high-cost housing, this sub-sector's
contribution to Nairobi's housing stock includes staff and servant's quarters
provided by employers and old Asian extended family dwellings which have been
converted into tenements. Overcrowding is a severe problem in many of these
tenements.
3.        Informal or popular housing (uncontrolled and squatter housing)
activities are a response to the failure of the private formal and public
sub-sectors to supply enough housing at sufficiently low prices to meet the
needs of Nairobi's rapidly growing populace. A 1971 study concluded that
one-third of the city's inhabitants were living in uncontrolled, illegal
housing. Squatting has occurred in a variety of settings. In the central
city, for example, people build flimsy structures along the valley of the
Nairobi River at night and dismantle them the next morning. The original
squatter villages in Mathare Valley provide an excellent example of this
form of settlement on the edge of the city's developed core, and there are



ANNEX 2
Page 2
an additional 43 squatter concentrations located within the municipal area.
With the exception of Mathare Valley, the civic authorities have until recent-
ly pursued a policy of demolishing squatter developments in the built-up areas
of the city without rehousing the people.
4.        Popular housing development has also occurred on land owned by
developers, e.g., "companies" in eastern Nairobi. Under this organizational
form, which originated in Mathare Valley, shareholders develop sub-plots on
land purchased by the "company". The housing consists mostly of wooden
barracks with four to six rooms, which are rented separately; the level of
services is usually substandard or nonexistant. Company housing proved to
be a highly profitable investment, with annual returns of up to 100% reported
in several cases. Within only a few years of their inception, the companies
built housing for roughly 10% of Nairobi's population.
5.        Another form of popular housing on land owned by the developers
occurs in Dagoretti in western Nairobi. Dagoretti was part of the African
reserve during the colonial period and individual landowners have strong
social and cultural ties to the area. Many of the landowners responded to
Nairobi's housing shortage and the area's proximity and good transportation
links to the city center by building rental housing without the approval of
the civic authorities. Most of the units are timber barracks similar to
those built by companies, although the densities in Dagoretti are much less
than those in Mathare Valley and other company developments in eastern
Nairobi. As a result Dagoretti's population doubled during the 1960s, and
its eastern half changed from predominantly agricultural area to a mixed
pattern of semi-urban settlement. By the early 1970s Dagoretti provided
accommodation for just under 10% of Nairobi's population.
The Public Sector
6.        At the beginning of the 1970s slightly less than a third of Nairobi's
population lived in public housing supplied by Nairobi City Council and the
National Housing Corporation. The latter is a parastatal body which acts as
the Executive arm of the Ministry of Housing. Together, the two authorities
provide practically all public housing units in Nairobi, but with the latter
directly building only a small part of the total and mostly in the higher
cost brackets (see Table 2). Various firms, E.A. Railways Corporation and
other public institutions add a small number of staff housing each year to
the Nairobi housing stock, but Government Ministries are no longer supposed
to build staff housing in Nairobi.
7.        Nairobi City Council is the public body with primary responsibility
for low-cost housing in Nairobi. The Council's housing program is fainanced
from three sources: (a) in recent years roughly two-thirds of the capital
expenditure on housing has come from NHC; (b) the Council also raises money
by issuing bonds on the local market; and (c) by negotiating loans directly
with CDC and AID.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        The City Council's housing program underwent a dramatic expansion
during the late 1960s. Table 3 summarizes the program from 1964 to 1971.
The bottom line of the table indicates that the housing portion of the Coun-
cil's total capital expenditure rose from roughly one-third during the
mid-1960s to just under two-thirds by the end of the period. The table also
illustrates the growing importance of tenant purchase schemes, which absorbed
two-thirds of housing expenditure by 1970. Most of the funds devoted to
redevelopment were spent on the Pumwani scheme. Although 660 new apartments
were built in this scheme, the high cost of the new units made it impossible
to rehouse many of the residents of old Pumwani and only a few of the old
Swahili-style houses scheduled for demolition were in fact torn down. The
improvement of old housing estates built during the colonial era is no longer
as important an activity for the Council as it was in the immediate aftermath
of Independence. Only 3% of capital expenditure on housing during this period
was used for sites and services schemes.
9.        Information on the types of housing produced by the City Council
during three different periods of time is summarized by groups according to
monthly charges in Table 4. The most striking feature is that almost all of
the inexpensive Council housing in use at the beginning of 1971 was inherited
from the pre-Independence period. Thus, of the 13,751 units which had charges
of less than 108 shillings per month, 12,934 or 94% were built before 1964.
Of the 5,066 units built between 1964 and 1971, 42% had monthly charges of
108 to 188 shillings, 22% fell in the 189 to 269 shillings range, and 20%
cost more than 270 shillings a month. The units built before and after
Independence are not directly comparable because of the rise in building costs
and because the colonialists emphasized the provision of minimal accommodation
for African laborers rather than family units.
10.       The rate of housing construction by Nairobi City Council reached an
average of approximately 1,000 a year in 1968-71. The building rate has since
declined. If we combine NCC housing output with that of the NHC for these
years, the average annual rate of output of the public sub-sector, approxi-
mately 1,300 units, was roughly comparable to that of the private formal sub-
sector. The disparity between the production of approximately 2,300 approved
units a year and an annual addition to households of some 9,000 suggests one
reason why the informal sector housing development in Nairobi has been so
vigorous in recent years.
11.       Even though the actual amount of money spent on housing has increase(d
over the years, it has diminished relative to total capital expenditure since
1969. Furthermore, there has been a tendency to move away from rental units
to tenant-purchase houses, which cost considerably more than serviced sites
(see Table 5). Not only is this contrary to National Housing Policy, but it
adds to the relative shortage of housing Nairobi. The move away from rental
units is understandable from the NCC's point of view, in that maintenance
expenditure becomes the responsibility of the purchaser. This principle is,
of course, also applicable to structures built in sites and services schemes,
which have the added advantage of mobilizing private efforts and funds for
construction activities.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
12.       There is much evidence that both rental and tenant-purchase housing
built by the NCC is being sub-let in whole or in part. The allocation of
publicly built units becomes a critical exercise, since the so-called "econo-
mic rent" charged for them is much lower than the market price for the same
kind of accommodations. In fact, the rental units with three rooms are often
sub-let at three times the official rent because each room is sub-let separate-
ly at the official rent. This situation makes such units a profitable asset.
13.       Table 6 indicates the way in which the present housing stock is
distributed among the three sub-sectors. The growth rate of the informal
sector during the late 1960s was probably equal to that of the other two
sub-sectors combined. This conclusion is deduced from the figures provided
in Table 7 where population figures are confronted with housing statistics
as far as they are available. The formal private sector in fact provided
only about 10% of the total need in the last year recorded (1972).
14.       The reason for the sudden increase in the activities of the in-
formal private sector was not only the pressure of immigrants and the result-
ing economic attractiveness of housing investment, but also the related fact
that at this time companies and cooperatives were organized on a large scale.
Whether a group of persons registered their association under the Companies
Act or as a cooperative made little difference to the way its business was
conducted, but most groups found the company form less restrictive to their
operation, which in some cases also included taxi-driving, retail-trading and
restaurant-business. In the early 1970s practically all of the available lots
in Mathare Valley were acquired and developed by companies, and other companies
began to develop sites elsewhere in eastern Nairobi. The main constraint was
the availability of land. Some companies were reluctant to develop their
land in the absence of approval by public authorities. Since there are no
plans for many of these areas, approval could not be obtained for even sub-
stantial houses. Instead some companies bought up existing housing units and
converted them into one-roomed tenements.
B. Public Housing Rents
15.       Housing assumes an important place in Nairobi's overall municipal
functions and currently accounts for about 13% of estimated current and 31%
of estimated capital expenditure. Nairobi public housing' stock falls into
two categories: tenant purchase and pooled rental housing. Recently there
has been increased emphasis on tenant purchase arrangements to encourage
house ownership. The tenant purchase scheme, which started in 1969, now
supports some 2,700 dwellings with a planned immediate growth to 3,000 units.
In comparison, during the period 1964 to 1974 the pooled rental housing stock
was increased by some 3,100 dwellings to a total of about 17,000 units
(Table 4).



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Pooled Rental Housing
16.       The philosophy of pooled housing rent levels is to recover, year
by year, the estimated costs of the service provision and management, part
of the rent going towards annual contributions to a maintenance fund which
then meets any repairs. The City Council has, however, not been able to
implement this policy consistently. Until 1973, when rents were raised by
an average of 42% pooled rental housing had been producing an increasing
deficit which stood at about US$540,000 in 1972. The deficit necessarily
meant a deteriorating situation on the maintenance fund.
17.       The rent increases reduced the expected deficit in 1973 from
k141,000 to about h11,000 and is expected to accrue a surplus in 1974 of
about b260,000. This is to be applied to writing off the deficits incurred
in 1973 (i192,000) and 1974 (b11,000) the balance b57,000 being transferred
to the Maintenance Fund. This will provide adequate remedial support for
the Fund and for the longer term, annual contributions are to equate to
estimated expenses. While the level of rent income makes this possible the
Fund will maintain a stable position. However the revised rent income will
support the service for a limited period only.
18.       It was judged that the revised level of rent income would prevent
the pooled rental housing account from incurring a deficit until 1976, and
at the same time provide funds for an adequate maintenance provision. In
fact, expenditures for pooled rental housing have increased by about 9.75%
a year whilst the maintenance element has been rising by about 20% a year
and there are indications (increasing inflation in the cost of building
materials and expected improvement in salaries of Council employees--salary
costs represent about 75% of all NCC current expenditures) that higher ratio
of increases in costs is probably appropriate. The table below projects the
situation and indicates that without further rent review the following annual
deficits are likely:
1976     1977     1978      1979        1980
A.   Maintenance 20%   )
Other        9.75%)         65,000   240,000  450,000  680,000    940,000
B.   Maintenance 25%   )
Other       12%   )        141,000   375,000  647,000  964,000  1,335,000
19.       By 1976-1977, another rent increase will most probably be required.
The NCC Housing Operations Study will, inter alia, therefore have to review:
-    the current basis for rental calculation with particular
attention to the elimination of any regressive cross-subsidies
to upper income groups.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
-    the gap, if any, between NCC housing and private sector rents.
-    a possible mechanism for keeping rents under continual review
in order to avoid extended deficits on the account.
Tenant Purchase Hotusing
20.       As indicated above, the emphasis of housing activity has shifted
to the assistance of owner occupation through a tenant purchase scheme.
Through the scheme, some 3,000 dwellings have been built by the Council and
are being sold under tenant purchase arrangements with a 5% deposit and
mortgages of up to 25 years at about 7%. The growth experienced by the
scheme demonstrates the investment in home ownership in line with Government
policy. However, stimulus in this area is declining in accordance with the
increasing financial constraint of loan finance.



AIN'EX 2
Page 7
Table I
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Private Residential Construction in Nairobi, 1957-1973
Number of
Residential         Total
Buildings           Floor Area          Total Cost   Estimated
Year          Completed            '000 sq ft         t'OOO         No. of Units
1957          4L2                 1,552               5,046  1/
1958          43)                 1,366               2,859  1/
1959          491                 1,663               3,171             832
1960          422                 1,632               2,955             816
1961           68                   333                 687             166
1962           29                   138                 348              69
1963           47                   133                 394              66
1964           61                   223                 436             111
1965           29                   113                 310              57
1966           95                   342                 684             171
1967          187                   560               1,402             280
1968          223                   622               1,685             311
1969          249                 1,311               2,521             655
1970          440                 1,928               3,448.            902
1971          483                 2,404               4,800           1,170
1972           -                    _                   _             1,311
1/ Also includes expenditure on non-residential buildings.
Source:  Statistical Abstract, Annual Volumes, Economic Survey 1974.



AMEX 2
Page 8
Table 2
KENZ
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Housinig Construction in Nairobi by the
National Housing Corporatimn.1967-71
Cost Range                Number of Units                 % Units
ii71 0                           14                        i.8v
iL1,150                         145                        1 9. 1. I
hi,310 - t1,475                 192                        25 3,1o
1,565 - E2,360                  107                        14.1i,1
K2,C614 - L2,950                 93                        12.35%
t3,500 - h4,500                 208                        27 .4L;
759                      100.0%
Source:  Annual Reports of the 'National Housing Corporation and
data supplied by the NHC.
Note:  For a few of the NRC's schemes wiLh more than one house type,
onflJ,r average costs for the whole scheme wTere available.  In
a few-i other cases, onlT estimated costs were available.



KENIYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AID SERVICE PROJECT
Nairobi City Council Capital Expenditure on Different Types of Housing Projects, 1964-71
(KS)
>Type of Project              196)4     1965       1966      1967      1968      1969       1970      1971      Total
Tenant Purchase Schemes          __        __       33,955    15,537   461,164   955,o54   768,279   9,5,g940    3,189,969
% of annual total               0.0       0.0       19.8      2.2        31.9      66.3      70.7      37.0        39.8
Rental Schemes                194,110      --       15,914   231,535   325,480   137,494   158,941 1,019,370    2,082,844
% of annual total               50.9      0.0        9.3     33.7        22.5       9.5      14.6       39.5      26.0
Rehabilitation &
Redevelopment Schemes          93,944   150,234    18,298   169,619   518,415   303,668   125,188   405,655    1,785,201
%% of annual total              24.6     69.3       10.6   2A .7         35.8      21.1      11.5       15.7      22.3
Site and Service Schemes       43,427    13,182    15,644      3,380    75,345    15,908        629       591      168,106
%% of annual total              11.4      6.1        9.1       0.5        5.2       1.1       0.1        0.0       2.1
Completion, Alternation &
Upgrading of Pre-Independence  15,818    49,514    32,163   161,785    28,127    25,596    20,097    45,635        378,735
0% of annual total             )4.1      22.8       18.7      23.5        1.9       1.8       1.8        1.8       4.7
Staff Housing                  33,787     2,630    34,607   102,166    38,971        761              I86,188      299,110
% of annual total               8.9        1.2      20.1      14.9        2.7       0.1       O.o        3.3       3.7
Miscellaneous                     241     1,338    21,213      3,896      --        1,798    13,358    69,200      111,044
% of anmual total               0.1        0.6      12.3       0.0        0.0       0.1       1.2        2.7       1.4
TOTAL               381,327   216,898   171,8314  687,918 1,447,502 1,440,27) 1,0(6,492 2,582,579    8,O14,829
%                  100.0      100.0      99.9    100.1       100.1     100.0      99.9      100.0     100.0
Housing as ,I of total
capital expenditure            34.9       36.4       15.1     33.4       55.9       66.3      65.3      62.9       52.0
Source: Analysis of data on housing expenditure from the Nairobi City Council's annual
Abstracts of Accounts.



KEifYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Nairobi City Council Rental and Tenant Purchase Housing
Rental Units                                            Tenant Purchase   Rental Units    Tenant Purchase
Monthly       Built Before    Rental Units        Rental Units        Units Build        in Use            Units in Use
Cost  1/      1964             Built 1964-67    Built 1968-73         1968-73            1.1.74            1.1.74
32/- to       6,214                                                                      6,214
531-          (43.8-')                                                                    (31.6%)
54/- to       1,422                                                    67                1,422              67
80/-          (0o.%0%)                                                (1.3%)              (7.2%)           (0.3,Z)
81/- to       2,836                                                                      2,836
107/-         (20.0%)                                                                     (114.4%)
108/- to      145                                                     698                   145            698
134/-         (1.0%)                                                  (I3.h4%)            (0.7%)           (13.6;1%)
135/- to      2,688                                 384               1,081              3,572             1,081
188/-         (19.0i)                               (17.0%)           (20.7%o)            (18.2%)           (5.5%)
189/- to                                                                458                                  458
269/-                                                                 (8.8,')                               (2.3%)
270/- to         89                                 312                 4)49                401              449
377/-         (0.6%)                              (6.0%)              (8.6%j)             (2.0%s)           (2.3%)
378/- to        109                                 464                 154                 573               154
539/-         (O. 8%)                             (8.9%)              (3.0%)              (2.9j)            (0.8%)
540/- to        682               260               490                 156               1,432               156
and over      (4.88)            (100.0%)          (9.4%)              (370%)              (7.3io)           (0.8%)
TOTAL    14,185               260                       5,213                                     19,653
(1 00"-o)         (1 00j")                    (1 00%)                                   (100,0                                            n>
1/  The monthly rent for rental units and the monthly repayment, assuming the maximum 20-year loan,
for tenant purchase schemes.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 1
Table 5
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AID SERVICE PROJECT
Nairobi City Council Tenant Purchase Schemes, 1969-7)
Price Range                                    No. of
of Units                                       Units
9,500/-                                          67
16,ooo/- to
20,000/-                                       1,255
22,000/- to
28,500/-                                         650
31,500/- to
37,500/-                                          436  1/
141,500/- to
i1,000/-                                         499
60,000/- to
76, 0C/ -                                        307
3,214 2/
1/  All the units in this range are blocks of t1-o to four flats which
were sold on a tenant purchase basis as part of the Pumwjani Re-
development Scheme.
2/  Differs from Table 4 due to the inclusion of a scheme completed
during 19714.



KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE A.ND SEiVICE PROJECT
Housing Systems in Nairobi, 1970
Housing                                                                                Estimated                 Population
Tinpe               Sector                         Description                         Number 
Squatter           Popular               Unapproved housing on land which the          97,200                      18%s)
developers do not have a legal right                                            )
to occupy                                                                      ) 37%
Companies &        Popular               Unapproved housing on land which the         102,600                      19%
Dagoretti                                developers do have a legal right to
occupy.
Old Tenements      Private               Primarily housing which was originally        54,000                      10%  )
Formal               built for Asian extended families but
is now occupied mainly by Africans.                                             )
Employer           Private               Includes servants' housing as well as         37,800                        7%  ) 33%
Provided           Formal                developments by large-scale employers.
Housing
Private            Private               Approved housing winich serves the middle     86,400                      16%o  )
Medium &           Formal                and upper income groups.                                                        )
High Cost
Sites &            Public                Serviced plots                                 16,200                       3%  )
Services                                                                                                                 )
Rental &           Public                Public housing for rent and purchase         145,800                       27%                             - 0
Tenant Purchase
Estates
Source:  Based on R. Racki, J. Racki and P. Patel:  liethodolo_y and Analysis of the Low-Income Housing System, 1972.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
The Construction Industry in Kenya
1.        In 1973 building and construction accounted for 52% of total capital
formation in Kenya. However, the total value of building completions in 1973
was lower than in 1972, in spite of the fact that the Kenyatta Conference
Centre, which was a major building project completed in 1973, is included in
the figure. Tables 1, 2, and 3 illustrate this trend. The trend has been
the same all over the country and the reason is that the completion of many
building projects was held back by a shortage of essential imported building
items such as steel, roofing material and sanitary fixtures. There were also
shortages in some locations of cement, which is a locally produced material,
due to internal marketing and transport difficulties, and the exportation of
large quantities of this commodity.
2.        The three elements of the construction industry:  labor, materials
and finance will be viewed separately in analyzing its potential for coping
with the proposed site and services project.
3.        About 5% of total employment is to be found in the Building and
Construction sector. This is a fairly consistent figure for the whole coun-
try over the years, except for Nairobi where the percentage has been 10-11%
in recent years. Average earnings for construction workers have been fairly
constant over the years 1970 to 1972, and 25% higher than the average for all
employees. The industry reports that it has had no trouble attracting an
adequate supply of semi- and unskilled labor, though there is and has been
a shortage of supervisory and skilled staff since the large exodus of Asians.
Training of local persons to fill the vacant posts of this type is going on
at various levels from Village Polytechnics to the University.
4.        There are a good number of contracting firms of all sizes.  The
Ministry of Works keeps an up-to-date list of contractors, and the National
Construction Company which is a training institution sponsored by the Minis-
try of Works, promotes local contractors including provision of technical
assistance. Kenya qualifies for the Bank's local contractor preference and
efforts will be made to involve them in the site and service project. For
the actual construction of houses it is very likely that, in addition to
self-help construction, allottees will hire local contractors or "fundis"
(craftsmen) who usually operate alone or with one or two helpers. They
are skilled artisans and have long experience in both wood and stone work.
5.        Building materials have only recently become a constraint to con-
struction activity in Kenya. This is considered a temporary problem which
is rooted in part in the policy of phasing out the non-citizen importers



ANNEX 3
Page 2
and wholesalers. As Kenyans now entering the industry become more familiar
with marketing and transport methods, these problems will gradually disappear.
The flow of contracts will increase with building activity, resulting in local
contractors maintaining a better stock of construction materials.
6.         Cement is locally produced at two factories, one of which is at
Athi River 20 Km to the southeast of Dandora. Production of both cement
factories has expanded over the years as follows:
1965 to 1966   +    23%
1966 to 1967   +       5%
1967 to 1968   +    10%
1968 to 1969   +    18%
1969 to 1970   +    23%
1970 to 1971   +   0.2%
1971 to 1972   +   1.0%
In keeping with the industry as a whole.  Cement production has slowed in
recent years but the industry has the capacity and raw materials to step
up production when the situation warrants.
7.        Timber is plentiful in Kenya, but has not caught on as a building
materials until very recently when the housing companies in the informal
sector turned almost exclusively to timber products. Attempts have been
made to demonstrate how suitable timber is to higher-cost housing, but there
is a traditional aversion to it which is based partly on the difficulties
with open fires for cooking indoors and the danger of termite attacks.
Although there has been a capacity problem with sawmills, explained in part
by the emigration of Asians, production of both soft and hard woods has in-
creased since 1968 and now stands at 288,000 m3. An export market for Kenya
tiimber is now developing which should further stimulate the industry's
expansion.
8.        There is no shortage of building stone, ballast and sand in Kenya.
Many quarries operate around Nairobi, which is known for a good quality
building stone extensively used also by small contractors for low-cost hous-
ing, for instance, in Kariobangi, an earlier site and service scheme. One
quarry is operating on the project site.
9.         Costs of building materials have been affected by inflation and
thus the cost of construction has gone up as well. Table 4 shows the changes
for various kinds of labor and materials from 1966 to 1973. Steel rods (12
mm) have increased by 154% since 1968. The other items range from 20% to
39% with two exceptions: skilled labor wages have gone up by 52% and ballast
has fallen 5% since 1968. The cost index for the building industry is listed
in Table 5 for Nairobi and the surrounding district.
10.       The willingness and ability of financial institutions to support
the building and construction industry can make a marked difference to their



ANNEX 3
Page 3
performance.  This is the case with all long-term production processes in-
cluding those requiring heavy machinery and substantial stock. The record
of Commercial Banks in Kenya for lending to "Building and Construction" has
been one of steady rise since 1970 where it stood at K1  3.4 million to KL 8.5
million in January of 1974. It is expected that this figure will remain
about the same during the year due to the stagnation in the building activity
mentioned earlier. The Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
extends loans for machinery, tools, equipment and plant, to medium and certain
small-scale contractors. A large proportion of work is done, however, by
informal contractors falling outside the scope of these programs.
Table 1*
THE VALUE OF ALL PRIVATE BUILDING WORK COMPLETED IN MAIN TOWNS 1967-1973.
(E 000).
Nairobi  Mombasa  Nakuru  Kisumu  Kitale  Eldoret  Thika  Others  Total
1967    3.28      0.59    0.06    0.02    0.03    0.03    0.14    -           4.15
1968    3.75      1.30    0.03    0.16    0.33    -          0.11    -        5.68
1969    6.05      1.01    0.12    0.08    -         -        0.03    -        7.29
1970    8.40      1.24    0.16    0.06    0.04    -          0.01    -        9.91
1971   11.29      1.22    0.08    0.14    0.05    0.02    0.01    -          12.81
1972    9.59      2.72    0.16    0.18    -         -        0.06    0.06   12.77
1973*   3.94      1.68    0.12    0.02    -         0.03    -        0.02    5.81
* Source: Ministry of Housing.



AI,1TD 3
Pagce 4
Table 2
KENIA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
National Housing Corporation: Value of Houses Completed 1970-73
(L'ooo)
Province                          1970       1971       1972      1973
Central                               337        --           6         37
Coast                                  179       198      1,119        486
Eastern                                60        --          16         44
Nairobi                             1,617      1,526      3,042        899
North Eastern                          --         14         29         13
TtYanza                                 30        17         44         77
Rift Valley                            147       117        169         89
Western                                 72        30        --         500
2,442     1,902      h,iL25     2,145



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Table 3
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AID SERVICE PROJECT
N.H.C.: Projects by Province, 1970-73
Site and Service Plots
Units Completed                  Completed
1970   1971   1972   1973       1970   1971   1972   1 973
Central                  220    --        6 5             161    --   1,078    --
Coast                    174    208    589    257         --     100    150    __
Eastern                   50    --        16     34              --      -- _   _
Nairobi                1,341  1,290  1,505    302         --   1,260    741    __
North Eastern            --        8      26      6.      --     --      --     --
Nyanza                      5     20     42      70       --     105      35    --
Western                    85     34    --      238       -      --      -- _ 
Rift Valley              192    177    313    153           8    __       96     96
TOTAL      1,880  1,737  2,497  1,092         169  1,465  2,100      96



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Table 4
I:ENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Cost of Building Materials and Labor, 1966, 1970-73
1966     1970     1971      1972     1973
Ballast                       53.6     94.0    104.0      95.0      95.0
Stone (230 x 230 mm)          63.0      74.o     85.0      85.1    139.0
Sand                          63.9    111.0    116.0    127.3    139.0
Cement                        93.8    100.0    100.0    100.0    120.0
Mild Steel Rod (12 mm)         --     101.5    134.0      95.3    254.0
Timber                        74.6    107.1    114.O    114.1    114.0
Skilled Labor                 69.4    111.1    111.0    111.2    152.0
Semi-skilled Labor            93.1    128.0    111.0    111.3    128.0
Unskilled Labor               83.0    110.4    111.0    111.0    128.0



ARNMX 3
Paeg 7
Table 5
APPRSAL OF A SITE AMD SERVICE PROJECT
Cost Index for Building Indvstry for Nairobi and District
(Bas. trar 1970)
January 1970       100
January 1 971      105
January 1972       110
Januwy 1973        120
January 1974&      135
Januay 1975        155*
* Estimate.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Physical Planning
A. Site Characteristics
1.        The Dandora site is located approximately 10 km east of the city
center (see Map 11069). The site is strongly defined by topography and man-
made features: Komo Rock Road to the south, Nairobi-Thika railroad to the
east, and Nairobi River Valley to the west. There are two power lines running
north-south on the site which restrict the use of the land under them. There
are also several quarries, some of which are abandoned. The shape of the site
is enlongated, with steep slopes on the boundaries in the west and north, and
more level land in the center. Except for some areas of "black cotton" soil
along the ridge in the center, most of the site has murram soil with rock at
varying depths. These characteristics dictated the land use plan with a
central spine. The gross area of the land to be used for the project is
approximately 218 ha. However, the proposed project with 6,000 residential
lots and related circulation and community facilities will utilize a total of
about 185 ha; the remainder is unusable due to quarries, excessive slope, etc.
(see Table 1).
2.        Land Ownership:  The NCC owns all the land on the site except about
50 ha which have been purchased by the Government from a private owner recently.
NCC will pay a charge of 3% of unimproved value for 10 years and 5% thereafter
for assignable land. No charge will be assessed for public space.
3.        Transport and Employment Linkages:  The most direct access to the
site is from the Komo Rock Road in the south. A link road to adjacent
Kariobangi is also feasible but not proposed initially. The area is at
present well served by public transportation with frequent bus service on
Komo Rock Road and outer Ring Road to the city center and major industrial
areas. Plans for expanding the bus service including routes to serve the
proposed project are under consideration. There is also an extensive pirate
taxi service or "matatus" servicing Kariobangi.
4.        A number of employment sources exist within walking distance of
the proposed project site including the Dandora and Ruaraka industrial
areas which are to be given preferred treatment by NCC and Government for
a new industrial location for Nairobi. With improved transport linkages
planned, access to city employment sources will also be improved.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        Off-site Infrastructure:  The site is well located in terms of
feasibility for connections to existing/planned trunk infrastructure networks
for roads, water supply, sewerage and electricity; main access roads will be
from Komo Rock Road which will be extended and upgraded.  The trunk water
mains necessary to serve the project are scheduled to be completed about mid-
1976 under Mid-Chania Phase II scheme. This schedule is in accord with the
proposed program for occupation of the lots. The first phase area with 1,000
lots will be served by trunk sewers and temporary oxidation ponds to be con-
structed in an abandoned quarry within the site. The subsequent phase (5,000
lots) will be served by trunk sewers and oxidation ponds planned further down
the Nairobi River. Power will be available from existing lines in the area.
B. Site Plan
6.        The criteria used in planning the Dandora sites and services area
can be broadly categorized into socio-economic and engineering criteria.
The socio-economic criteria include:
(a) adequate land use planning to ensure maximum locational
convenience of housing areas, community facilities areas
and circulation areas in terms of access, safety and social
interaction and to minimize costs;
(b) adequate provision of community facilities, i.e. schools,
clinics, community centers, markets, day care centers
etc.
(c) grouping of these facilities in a way to form an attractive
and viable nucleus for community activities and to permit
multiple uses of building and play areas;
(d) provision of a safe and convenient system of pedestrian
circulation linking lots to bus lines, play areas and
community facilities;
(e) provision of vehicular circulation within the area which
allows access to residential lots, commercial and public
areas and provides easy flow of traffic while protecting
the neighborhoods from through traffic;          I
(f) provision of limited car parking areas and garbage pick-up
facilities; and
(g) designing lot layouts to reflect local social preferences
and life styles, and to minimize disturbances such as
traffic noises, industrial activities and natural nuisances.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
The engineering criteria includes:
(a) efficient: physical planning to comply with desirable ranges
of population density and land use percentages for circula-
tion, public areas, private areas and lot coverage - all
features of a sound physical layout which is the primary
determinant of subsequent commitment in terms of cost of
land, and infrastructure networks, administration and
maintenance;
(b) adequate provision of basic services, i.e. roads, footpaths,
storm water drainage, water supply, fire hydrants, sewage
disposal, power supply and security lighting;
(c)  flexibilLty in the design of the physical layout and basic
services to permit and provide for future extensions and
improvements as household needs and incomes change.
7.        In addition to the above criteria the project site plan conforms
with the site characteristics. The physcial layout is simple and geometric
for economic construction and servicing, and is a modified version of the
"gridiron" layout.  The land use profile for the project is shown in Table
1. About 50-55% of the usable land is devoted to residential lots, 20-25%
to circulation and the remainder to community facilities and open spaces.
This distribution of land utilization areas complies with accepted and
desirable ranges of land use for residential development. 1/
8.        The gross densities 2  in the project are fairly high--32 lots per
hectare on the average yielding gross population densities of between 160-300
persons per hectare assuming 5 - 10 persons per lot. Densities in Nairobi's
substandard settlements are considerably higher, approaching 1,800 persons
per hectare 3/ because of overcrowded conditions in single room tenements
and a lack of community facilities and open space.
1/   Based on standards developed by several international agencies, academic
institutions and public planning agencies, these ranges are: 20-30% for
circulation areas, 50-60% for private areas, and 15-30% for other public
areas.
2/   Defined in this instance as number of lots divided by total usable area.
Desirable/effective gross population density range in such projects is
250-500 persons per ha.
3/   Survey of Mathare Valley in 1971 by the Housing Research and Develop-
ment Unit of University of Nairobi.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
C. Principal Features of PhysicalLayout
9.        Circulation:  The circulation layout provides a network of vehicular
roads, pedestrian paths and parking areas which form the primary ordering
framework. There is a main through street running longitudinally along the
center with local transverse streets. The through street is adequately in-
tercepted to protect the neighborhood from fast through-traffic. The
pedestrian circulation links residential areas to commercial and public areas
and to the public transport system. Adequate pedestrian crossings will be
provided on the through streets.
10.       Residential Lots:  There are 6,000 lots in the lot layout (see
Fig. 1). About 300 lots will be 7.35 m wide and the rest will be 6.30 m
wide. The length varies between 15.75 m, 18.90 m and 22.06 m yieldings
lot areas of 99.2, 119.1, 138.9 and 161.1 m2. These dimensions are derived
from a basic room size of 3.15 m x 3.15 m, which in turn is based on bed
sizes. The lot sizes, although small, 1/ are appropriate for Nairobi in terms
of cost levels and functional requirements. The 6.3 m wide plots will be
distributed as follows:  30% will be 99.2 m2, 35% will be 119.2 m2, 30%
will be 138.9 m2, while the 7.35 m wide plots will be 162.1 m2.  Thus, while
keeping lot widths as narrow as possible, different lot sizes will be offered.
The lots are arranged in lateral rows with the wet cores and kitchen units
back-to-back. The wet cores are serviced from distribution lines from one
side. This solution for lot and services configuration was adopted on
economic as well as technical grounds.
11.       S ine of Community Facilities:  All the community facilities for
the project are grouped in the spine running along the site between the two
through streets. This feature of the layout takes advantage of the inter-
relationships of the facilities and permits multiple use of the buildings
and surroundings areas. It also reduces construction and services costs.
1/   Compared to 324 mi  and 210 m  in Zambia, 375 m  in Botswana, 260 m  in
Tanzania, and 150 m2 in Senegal.



ANNE= 4
Page 5
Table 1
KENY
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Land Use Profile
Phase I     Total     Average
1,000      6,000
Lots       Lots
(ha)       (ha)       (
1. Gross Area                        46.5       218.2        -
2.  Unusable Area (Quarries,
excessive slope, etc.)        13.8         32.7        -
3. Area available for
development                    32.7       185.5      100
4. Residential                       15.0        89.8        48 /1
5.  Circulation                       8.2        44.5        24
6.  Community Facilities              9.5        51 .2       28
/1  Effective percentage of residential land will be between 50-60%
because of the inclusion of additional land within the spine for
expansion of community facilities.



F'u tu r
3S-Se IServic                                                 Se
~~.fr1it'3 ~ ~ ~       ~      ~      Uit
~~A I
....... ...:..Co nity Facilities (spine)
Residen tial Lots
,/   t    \_,      /   Fi~rst Year                           ::-
/ l,OOOL.o~~~~~' 00T. : ot .
NATIROBI SITES & SERVICES PROJECT
Futur e                                                             Schematic Plan Shovimn L^rnd Use and Phasi, g
Meadium 
Cost
lious ;ing



ooo'1 :- xo.addi' :eaVsog
-v,oo-q T-.ocJZl o Utr
c'NJ |'a (C2d S:3IA'ZS  SPLLIS IqLEIYV
" t; |                                                                                                      S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOS 4ax qlTnq q-^xx
s.oq V uo,cqdo
__                                                                                                                                       I t___ .
. .: . : .   .. ... ....
-E===_L___'   '                                                                                                                                         >-;   =:-=--,-   -_--   -e.-   .  i.. .    ............................
.;.::   :.:  .:  .  K;   t:  v .V. .- \ . v . _ . _ e ~~~..                         ..                                     .. ...    .................... _,_. 
i;~~~~~~~~~~~.i. ..  >. M. ..,j        *: . .......----C--------;----- ------ ----- 
;-4----;- - --~~~~~ ..........
iE- - -- Wev P....Z.-    ;........ g 



AIM4
Page8
FIGURE 3
IJet e^
e     t024.  Iashroomn
WC
0       ,                       /
Plot Area:           120 &|2
Covered Area:        14.5 m2
TYPICAL PLOT IAYOUJT (Qpt$aonA
Built wet core



AN 4
Page 9
FIGURE 4
_ _____   __ _ _
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .  .._.l.I  .  ....
:.__ __   _ _ _ _ -a               I~~~T--  
.   ,/I             / ;_-_______    '"
, USITS.  _       __/_ X
K___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ J....... ___  IL...............................
1AIF;OBI  SITS e SEFRVICE; PROJECT
CoZflrJnity Facili'ies:
Proposed YM dulr
Tll; , I^; n 0r l-r 7:t.x;rm



t ~~-                           d                                       lt
_ ___  _ _____ _     _-'_  ____   ._   _                                               __ ___     tE
EL EVATION
__ :
SECT ION
N-AI!nBI SITES & SERVICES PROJECT
Prop,oned lebdul.arw E
_B_i-dIng System



ANNEX 5
Page 1
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Design Standards and Cost Estimates
A. Infrastructure Standards
1.        The following standards were adopted after a detailed analysis of
the minimum requirements of the site and service project as well as prevail-
ing standards in Nairobi and NCC's grade II Bye-laws which allow construc-
tion with mud and wattle.
2.        Roads and Surface Water Drainage:  The site will have a circula-
tion network providing a primary ordering framework around which the lot
layout plan is developed. The site is linked to the city network from Komo
Rock Road.  Within the site, there is a main through street running along
the ridge which also forms the spine containing the community facilities.
This main street is linked to a network of secondary roads and footpaths
runming transversely within the residential zones on either side of the
spine.
3.        Standards and specification for the various modes of circulation
are described below: -
(i) Main Roads will serve as collector roads carrying bus traffic
and will be constructed to bus route standards with an overall
reservation of about 20 meters. The carriageway will be 7 m
wide and will have 3.00 m wide footpaths on both sides with a
surface water drainage ditch on each side of the footpaths. The
carriageway construction comprises a 12 mm tarmacadam wearing
course on a 38 mm tarmacadam base course over a 150 mm hardcore
bed blinded with stone dust on 150 mm murram bed on graded and
compacted formation. On either side of the carriageway there
will be concrete kerbs (250 x 125 mm on one side; 125 x 100 mm
on the other). The footpath construction comprises 150 mm
murram paving on compacted formation. The surface water
drainage ditch construction comprises 450 x 225 m concrete
invert block channel with 50 mm concrete slabs at 45 degrees
on both sides. The unit cost has been estimated at Ksh 930
per linear meter.
(ii) Secondary Roads will provide vehicular and pedestrian accesses
to the residential lots. These roads will have an overall
reservation of about 12 meters with a 6.00 m wide carriageway



ANNEX 5
Page 2
and 2.30 m wide footpaths on both sides with a surface water
drainage ditch on each side of the footpaths. The carriageway
construction comprises 225 mm murram paving on graded and com-
pacted formation. The footpath construction comprises 100 mm
paving and compacted formation and the surface water drainage
ditch is the same as described for main roads. Unit costs
have been estimated at KSh 274 per linear meter.
(iii) Parking Areas will be provided along the secondary roads at
convenient locations and would consist of 150 mm murram
paving on graded and compacted formation. Connecting footpaths
and surface water drainage would be provided. Unit costs of
KSh 12-20 per sq m have been used.
4.        Water Supply:  Individual water supply connections will be provided
to each lot to serve a water closet, a shower, an outside tap and with pro-
vision for installing a water tap and sink in the kitchen at a later date.
Water service on each lot will be metered and served by 1/2 inch diameter
pipes. The distribution system is designed to cater to fire hydrant require-
ments and conforms to NCC's standards for consumption levels and regulations.
5.        Sewerage:  All lots will have individual wet core units with water-
borne sewerage facilities. The sewerage system is designed to conform to
NCC's water and sewerage department specifications. Concrete pipes of sizes
225 mm diameter for the mains and 150 mm diameter for laterals will be used.
Manholes will consist of masonry walls, concrete bases and cast iron covers.
6.        Electricity:  A system of street lighting and security lighting at
major communal areas will be installed. The center-to-center spacing for
street lighting will vary within a maximum spacing of about 45 m. Timber
poles with overhead wiring will be used. Individual metered electric con-
nections will be available from the East Africa Power and Lighting Company,
on application by a stated number of households. A connection charge would
be levied.
7.        Refuse Collection:  Approximately 120 concrete hardstandings will
be provided for the whole area. NCC will provide the necessary bins and
collection services and charge plot holders through property rates.
8.        Site Preparation:  Site preparation involves topographic survey
including lot demarcation and earthworks. Topographic costs are relatively
small as extensive topographic maps on various scales are already available.
A detailed topographic survey of scale 1:500 is currently under way with the
assistance of Survey of Kenya and will be completed for the whole site by the
end of March 1975. Lot demarcation involves beaconing out each corner of lot
and stamping of title by the Commissioner of Lands. Earthworks involves
clearing and grading, including sisal clearance.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
B. Core Unit Standards
9.        Each lot will be provided with basic lot services consisting of
water connections to w.c., shower and gulley basin, sewerage and waste water
drains in a contractor-built superstructure ('wet core'). In order to ac-
commodate different income levels within the low-income sector, three options
of wet core and shelter units are to be provided:
Option A (65%) 3,900 lots, including 30 reserved for demonstration
units, in three different sizes, 100, 120 and 140 m2. Each will
have the basic lot services in wet cores and participants will be
offered a construction materials loan (KE 240) for developing their
shelter. Owners are expected to develop the shelter through self-
help or hired labor. Total lot development costs inclusive of the
materials loan and physical contingencies are estimated at between
Kb 550 - KE 595 per lot depending on the lot size chosen. About 30
of the 3,900 lots will be developed with different materials and
room layouts by the Project Department for demonstration purposes
at a per unit cost of about KL 732.
Option B (30%) 1,800 lots in three different sizes, 100, 120 and
140 m .  In addition to the wet cores outlined in Option A anove,
each will have one contractor-built room. Lot owners will be
offered a construction materials loan (KL 120) for further devel-
opment of the shelter to suit personal requirements using either
self-help or sub-contracting. Total development costs including
materials loans range between Kb 610 - KE 650;
Option C (5%) 330 lots Units will have a contractor-built dwelling
consisting of two built rooms. No materials loans will be offered
to lot owners. The development cost of Option C lots is approximately
KL 825.
Servicing costs for the various lot options are detailed in Table 2 of
Annex 8.
C. Overall Project Costs
10.       Cost estimates for site preparation, on-site servicing and lot
devleopment are based on detailed engineering for about 700 lots and pre-
liminary engineering for the remainder. Estimates for trunk infrastruc-
ture are based on preliminary engineering. Total project costs are estimated
at Kb 10.5 (US$29.5) million at January 1975 prices. Physical contingencies
of 15% on plot preparation and infrastructure, and 5% on community facili-
ties and core units are included. Price escalation has been calculated at
15% in 1975, 12% for the period 1976 through 1979. Foreign exchange costs
are estimated at about 26%.



ANNEX 5
Page 1f
Table 1
KENIYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE ANE) SERVICE PROJECT
CoMmunity Facilities
Total Cost
Total                                             Totel Areas           Enclosed    Covered       Total Cost    Project
No. in     Description of Facility and                                  e Esh500   @ KSh250        Per Unit       Total
Ps-eject         Fu_nctltial Spaces            Enclosed    Covered        Per m2       per l2        XSh          (y
PRTiARY SCHOOLS                    6                                               1 199.      300       599,500        75,000       674,500
Based en 75% enplyoynent, one                l,499o2 Primary school:                                        '             '         ( Ja  '75
3_stren school for every 7,500.                                                                                                        i    '38,784)
Prsject includes only 6 schools              1,043m2 21 Clarssoons
which would be required to serve              56.12 Offices/Stores
r,pulation ecpected in 1979.                         (4 ( 14s2)
16k2 Toilets
Il,   c TOTAL ENCLOSED AREA
T2  TOTAL                                                                                              232,700
HE8LTM CENCERS                     2                                                 375      io6       1875,50        26,5oo       214,000
1 without mates-ity wing                                                                                                           Ktl2,305)
6am2 Waiting and demon-
stration roon
12302 Treatment/exam  roons
(11 @ 11a2)
15m2 Waiting area for
urinal tests
lOs2 Observation roon
38n2 Dispensary store
24n2 Staff roon
18n2 Doctor/sioters roan +
toilet
25m2 General office + store
12a2 Records office
30.2 Changing rs-ns + toilets
SOs2 Public toilets
375m2 TOTAL ENCLOSED AREA
106s2 Covered waiting area
481n2 TOTAL
1 with maternity wing
481n2 Health center as above +       375         io6       187,500        26,500       214,ooo
18n2 Reception a-ea                                                                  (@ Jan '75
25m2 Exanination room                                                                 p112,305)
30nZ First stage roon
4OC2 Delivery room (2 A 20S2)       338          35       169,000         8,750       177,750
30,2 Kitchen, stertlising                                                            (e Jan '75
lOn2 Toilets, nurses' station                                                         KblO,235)
5n52 Toilets/shower
15Ct2 Wards
1On2 Store
33&7 TOTAL ENCLOSED AREA
3n2 Covered areas
37sd TOTAL                                                                                              34,845
MULTIPUIRPOSE CCMMIWITY CENTERS    2                                               53B         32       269,000         8,0o0       277,000
570o2 Cosplee:                                                                         (A Jan '75
167m2 Large hall                                                                        RE5,928)
182 Projection roon
200n2 Offices, comnittee rooms,
classrooms
lQt)2 Wonen's training center
33n2 Stores
20n2 Sanitary facilities
53)ia TOTAL ENCLOSED AREA
32n2 Covered areas, corridors
57;j2 TOTAL
With Day-Care Facility                        178a2 TOTAL ENCLOSED AREA
30m2 Cover.ed Verandah and Corridor
208m2 TOTAL                           178         30         89,000         7,500       96,500
(@ Jan '75
Bb5,550)        42,955
SPORTS COMPLEX                     1                                              150           0        75,000                      75,000
(9 Jan '75
502n Offices, stores                                                                    b4,31o)
50C2 Toilets
502n Changing s-sns
150nZ TOTAL ENCLOSED AREA                                                                                 4,310
MARXRTS                                                                             --      5,400                   1,350,000    1,350,000
1,920m2 Stalls (96 @ 20n2)                                                           la77 ,62s)
1260a2 Stalls (84 A 15m2)
2,220a2 Stalls (222 @ lOs2)
5,400n  COVERED AREAS                                                                                    77,625
The costs have been brought up to January 1975 from April 1974 estinates by applying a price increase factor at the annual sate of 20% for the year 1974.



ATNFX 5
Page 5
Table 2
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Breakdown of Wlp,et Core Costs
Option A - Terraced Lavout
(In Kenya Shillings)
January, 1975 Prices
ELED1NT                              MATERIALS             LABOR           TOTAL
Foundations                           225                   110             335
Walls                                 334                   145             479
Floor Slabs                            76                    43             119
Roof                                  207                    15             222
Doors                                 438                    42             480
Roof Drainage                          56                     7              63
Sewerage                              708                   164             872
Water Supply                          136                   120             256
Fencing                                26                    26              52
Sub-total           2,206                  672           2,878
Miscellaneous @ 10%                                                         288
Price Escalation    April 1974 -                                            475
January 1975 @ 15%
TOTAL for 4.73m2 wet core                                               3,641
(KL182)



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Table 3
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Breakdown of Wet Core + One Room Unit Costs
Option B - Terraced Layout
(In Kenya Shillings)
January, 1975 Prices
ELEMENT                              MATERIALS             LABOR           TOTAL
Foundations                           463                   227             690
Walls                                 677                   284             961
Floor Slabs                           207                   118             325
Roof                                  599                    42             641
Windows                                220                   24             244
Doors                                 876                    84             960
Roof Drainage                         126                    11             137
Sewerage                              722                   179             901
Water Supply                          208                   135             343
Fencing                                23                    23              46
Kitchen Fixtures                      140                    84             224
Sub-total           4,261                1,211            5,472
Miscellaneous 0 10%                                                         547
Price Escalation April, 1974 -903
January 1975 Q 15%                                                   -
TOTAL for 13.7m2 wet core +
one room unit                                                   6,92
(KE346)



ATNEX 5
Page 7
Table 4
T(vENYA4
APIKAISAI. OF A SI'iE AID SERVICE PROjECT
Breakdown of Tlet Core + Two Room Unit Costs
Option C - Terraced Layout
(In Kenya Shillings)
January, 1975 Prices
ELE?>ENT                             MATERIALS             LABOR           TOTAIL
Foundations                           847                   409           1,256
Walls                               1,232                   604           1,836
Floor Slabs                           406                   221             627
Roofs                               1,251                    81           1,332
W.lindows                             44!0                   4              4h88
Doors                               1,315                   126           1,441
Roof Drainage                         186                    27             213
Sewerage                              722                   179             901
Water Supply                          208                   135             343
Surface Drainage                      151                   225             376
Paving                                 10                    16              26
Fencing                               27h                   102             376
Kitchen Fixtures                      1_o                    84             224
Sub-total           7,182                 2,257           9,439
MisceUaneous S 10%                                                          944
Price Eacalatica April 197 -
January 1975 6 15%                                                  1,557
TOT'AL for 26.63m2 two room unit                                       11,9h0
(K597)



KENYA                                        A.NNE 5
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT                     Table 5
Detailed Project Custs
Foreign/Local
Kb                                      US$
Local       Foreign      Total          Local        Foreign      Total
1. Site Preparation
Clearing end Grading                28,463        9,487       37,950         79,696       26,564      106,260
Topography and Soil Surveys         10,350          -         10,350         28,980         -          28,980
Lot Demarcation                     69,000          -69,000                 193,200          -        193,200
Fencing of Power Lines               1,150          -          1,150          3,220          -          3,220
Sub-total               108,963        9,487     118,450         305,o96       26,564     331,660
2. On-Site Infrastructure
Rads and Surface Drainage          496,398       165,427     661,825      1,389,914      463,196   1,853,110
Water Reticulation                 112,988       37,662      150,650        316,366      105,454     421,820
Sewerage Reticulation              118,767       39,588      158,355        332,548      110,846     443,394
Streert Lighting                    49,335       16,445       65,780        138,138       46,046      184,184
Landscaping                          8,625        2,875       11,500         24,150        8,050       32,200
Refuse Collection                   17,422        5,808       23,230         48,782        16,262      65,044
Sub-total               803,535      267,805   1,071,340       2,249,898      749,854   2,999,752
3. Community Facilities
Primary Schools                    174,525        58,175     232,700        488,670      162,890      651,560
Health Centers                      26,123        8,722       34,845         73,144       24,422       97,566
-oa.  rOIters Rr"i r--'re                       10j-71 32,216  10,730  42,955   0,205    3o,r9       120,2797
Markets                             58,219       19,406       77,625        163,013       54,337      217,350
Sports Conplex                       3,277        1,033       4,310           9,176        2,892       12,068
Sub-total               294,360       98,075     392,435         824,208      274,610   1,098,818
4. Core Units
Wet Cores                          528,255       176,085    704,340       1,479,114      493,038   1,972,152
One-Room Units                     467,100       155,700    622,800       1,307,660      435,960   1,743,840
No-Room Units                      134,325        44,775    179,100         376,110      125,370      501,480
Demonstration Units                 16,470         5,490      21,960         46,116       15,372       61,488
Sub-total             1,146,150       382,050  1,528,200       3,209,220    1,069,740   4,278,960
5. Materials Loan Fund
Option A L_ans                     928,800           -       928,800      2,600,640         -       2,600,640
Option B Loans                     216,000          -        216,000        604,800         -         604,800
Sub-total             1 ,144,800         -     1,144,800       3,205,440         -      3,205,440
Trink 'rfrastructoire
Accss Ponads                         35,07Lr      35,075       70,150         98,210       98,21C1    156,4120
7em'rcL','w S+."i Prat.;.^ Pond       8,000        4,0)OC     1,0oo0          22,200       11,200       33,!n00
:Servicp vr k Sewers                112,000       ;5,000      1t7;00C        314;000      15W",ooo     4,P6,0
a,' Trlun  to Site 0r              882,000      l6,1,00   1,31O6,0r       2,1'0,0O   1,215,0o00   3,69L,mr
Tpwafce 'reptment. Works            353,000       1"i, )OO    527,000        9P8,000       !P7_,0o    1,475,000
I.and                              - 711,('(0        _      __ 71,000 1oorr                _   -       LqG.0O0
Sub-total           1,1141,07r     7n,o?f7L   2,1A3,190     4,9001,10    1,965,)O1r   A,nq4 ,89
7. Technical Assistance
Project Unit                       243,600       104,400    348,ooo         682.080      292,320      974,400
Design and Engineering             112,785      263,1fj      375,950        315800       736,860   1,052,660
Monitoring                          18,000        18,000      36,000         50,400       50,400      100,800
Studies:
NCC Housing Operations           21,500        21,500      43,ooo         60,200       60,200      120,400
Project Preparation              70,000        70,000    140,000         196,000      196,000      392,000
Sub-total              'lfl5,885     4'77,e065    01.2,90C     1,304,480BO    1,335,78O   2, AL80,2,n
8. Contingencies
Physical (15% on Items 1, 2        363,946        223,064    587,010      1,019,049      624,579   1,643,628
and 6, 5% on Item  3 and 4)
Price Escalation on Items 1-6,   1,9?72,150      622,7FO   2,59h,930      5,522,020    1;743,780   7,265,800
and Project Unit
Sub-total             2 33Cno00      8!,5,81,   3,181,9)0      4.541,069    2,368,359    ,, 29,
TOTAL                 'f'00. Pf),   2,782,401  10,5)13,265    21,730,821    7,790,317  29,521,13P
-             -~~~,72.)O  -              -37 -                  ,211



ANNEX 6
Page I
KENYA
ALPPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Nairobi Sewerage Program
1.        The city of Nairobi has an estimated population of slightly more
than 700,000 (Nairobi Urban Study Group projection) in 1974 and is expected
to grow at an average rate of 5.4% per annum 1/ (compound) to 2,880,000 in
year 2000. NCC estimates that about 60% of the total population, or 420,000
people, is served by the Nairobi Sewerage System. The served population is
projected to increase to 670,000 ty 1979, 1,080,000 by 1985, and 2,430,000
by year 2000.
2.        In response to the Kenyan Government's request for assistance to
prepare a plan tc meet the growing sewerage meeds of the city, the United
nations Development Program (UNDP) is financing a study which is being exe-
cuted by the World Health Orgarization (WHO) and conducted by the consultant
SWECO of Sweden. The study, titled "Nairobi Sewerage and Groundwater Survey,"
is now in its final stages of completion. Figure 1 shows the tentative re-
commendations for the sewerage plan under this study.
3.        The consultant has also prepared a preliminary engineering and
feasibility study of the First Stage Program of the plan, which outlines
sewerage works required in Nairobi up to year 1979/80. Part of the work in
this program will be needed to serve the I.B.R.D. Site and Service Project
at Dandora, and this portion of the program (IBRD Map no. 11391) is being
considered for a loan as a component of the Site and Service Project. The
sewerage work to be included in this project contains major elements which
will serve other parts of the city. For this reason appraisal of the sewerage
component would require consideration of the entire sewerage program for
Nairobi.
A. Existing Conditions of the Nairobi Sewerage System
4.        The city of Nairobi has an area fo 670 square kilometers within
its statutory limits. Of this area about 3500 ha. (net, excluding parks
and other open areas) are served by a sewerage system. Residents in the
unserved areas, which are in most parts scantily populated, use septic tanks,
conservancy tanks, cesspools, bucket latrines and pit latrines. A few small
communities and some factories have individual treatment facilities, usually
in the form of smiall waste stabilization ponds.
1/   6.8% from 1974 to 1980, 5.9% from 1980 to 1985, 5.0% from 1985 to 2000.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
5.        Except for a small area in the city center (about 125 ha.), the
existing sewers in Nairobi are on a separate system. Nevertheless a sizable
amount of stormwater finds its way into the system through openair wash areas
connected to the system and through faults. The sewer system is mainly a
gravity one, and pumping is required only for a few small low-lying areas.
6.        Wastewater from the sewerage system is treated in two major treat-
ments works: Kariobangi and Eastleigh Sewage Treatment Works. Both are
trickling filter plants, 12 and 40 years old respectively, with designed
treatment capacities of 32,000 and 16,000 m3 per day. A third sewage treat-
ment works, the Industrial Area STW consisting of waste stabilization ponds
with a capacity to treat 4,500 m3 per day is under construction. An exten-
sion of these ponds to twice the present designed capacity is also being
planned.
7.        The SWECO study (para. 3) shows that existing wastewater treatment
facilities in Nairobi are unable to cope with the present hydraulic and
biological loads. Large amounts of excess raw sewage are being bypassed
directly into the Nairobi River, and this, coupled with other unidentified
sources of pollution within the city, is affecting the quality of the water
in the river. In a survey conducted by NCC in 1971/72, it was found that
the river water quality deteriorated very rapidly as the river passed through
the city center, and became anaerobic for a stretch of almost 30 kilometers.
Unless remedial measures are taken soon, the situation will worsen with time
as the population in Nairobi multiplies with accompanying increases in waste-
water flows as a result of planned expansion of the city's water supply
system.
8.        The Ministry of Water Development (previously the Water Department
of the Ministy of Agriculture), which is the national authority on water
quality and pollution control, has expressed concern over the quality of
the water in Nairobi River at and downstream of Nairobi. The water has a
number of possible downstream uses including irrigation, drinking water
supply, recreation, and together with the Athi and Tsavo Rivers (to form
the Sabaki River) will eventually be a major source of drinking water supply
to the Coast Province (Mombasa and other communities along the coast). The
Ministry has advised the Nairobi Sewerage and Groundwater Survey team that
the water in Nairobi River should be upgraded to have a dissolved oxygen
content of not less than 1 mg/i. This standard has been used as the basis
for preliminary design of the treatment facilities and is considered by Bank
mission members to be reasonable.                           I
B. The Nairobi Sewerage and Groundwater Survey
9.        The Nairobi Sewerage and Groundwater Survey (para. 2) commenced
during the last quarter of 1972, and is nearing completion. The object of
the study is to prepare a master plan for the development of sewerage facili-
ties in Nairobi, and to investigate groundwater resources which may be used



ANNEX 6
Page 3
to augment the city's water supply.  The groundwater aspect of the study is
not covered in this report. Tue planning period covers three stages:
First stage (in 3 phases)         up to 1979
Second stage                    1979 to 1985
Future stage                    1985 to 2000
10.       In view of the pressing need to improve and enlarge the sewerage
system in Nairobi, WhiO instructed SWECO in early 1974 to proceed with a pre-
liminary engineering and feasibility study of works required in the First
Stage Program. The resulting proposed program, to be implemented in three
phases, consists of trunk and reticulation sewers and additional wastewater
treatment facilities. A summary of the work required in this program is
found in Tables 1 and 2 which give the estimated costs of January 1974 prices
and at escalated prices.
11.       To meet: the requirements of the Ministry of Water Development,
SWECO recommends that secondary treatment of the wastewater to an effluent
standard of 20 mg/1 BOD5 (5-day biochemical oxygen demand) and 30 m/1
suspended solids will be adequate for the First and Second stages. After
1985 some form of advanced treatment will be required. Various methods of
wastewater treatment have been examined by the consultant, and the most
economical solution is found to be that using waste stabilization ponds.
This is explained by the fact that large tracts of land at low costs are
available within a reasonable distance of the city center.
12.       Three sites have been identified by SWECO as being suitable for
locating the future waste stabilization ponds (IBRD Map No. 11391):
Site B - 10 km. downstream of Kariobangi or about 17 km.
from the city center.
Site C - 3-1/2 km. downstream of Site B or about 20-1/2 km.
from the city center.
Site D - 3 km. downstream of Site C or about 23-1/2 km.
from the city center.
Sites B and C are small sites and can each accommodate ponds capable of
treating 30,000 m3 per day of wastewater (a capacity that will cope with
flow increases over 2 to 3 years). Land availability is virtually unlimited
at Site D. Two alternative plans for development were suggested:
Alternative 1
Develop Site B, Site C and Site D progressively as
and when dictated by wastewater flows. This alter-
native makes use of the proximity advantage of Sites
B and C, and results in lower capital outlay in the
early years.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Alternative 2
Develop Site D at once and ignore Sites B and C.
This alternative has the advantage of centralized
operation control and cheaper pond construction costs
due to grouping of the facilities.
Analysis shows little difference in the discounted costs (at 8% and 12%) of
the two alternatives, and the decision on the choice of Alternative 2 was
based on other more subjective reasons of the Nairobi City Council (NCC).
13.       Appraisal of the Site and Service Project in July 1974 disclosed
that to assure adequate sewerage for the Dandora area when needed, major
elements of Nairobi's First Stage Sewerage Program would have to be included
for financing with the project; otherwise, financial constraint of NCC could
postpone the sewerage works and thus delay sewerage service to the Dandora
development. Consequently, in October 1974, the sewerage program was
appraised on the basis of the Sewerage and Groundwater Survey and the result*-
ing preliminary engineering and feasibility work (para. 10).
C. Justification of the Nairobi Sewerage Program
14.       The program is intended to meet the growing sewerage needs of
Nairobi. Nairobi is the capital of Kenya and the main center of population,
commerce, tourism and industry. The Government attaches high priority to
the program.
15.       The city has large tracts of virtually uninhabited land which
provide scope for development. Industrial growth has been estimated at
about 6% per annum. Tourism is expanding rapidly and this is expected to
continue. In a study by the Nairobi Urban Study Group (NUSG) which was
completed in 1973, Nairobi's population was projected to grow at a much
higher rate (para. 1) than the national average of around 3-1/2% per annum,
despite the Government's recent policies of promoting family planning,
decentralization and rural growth. Real GDP growth for the city is forecast
at about 8% per annum.
16.       With the commissioning of Phase 1 of the Middle Chania Water Supply
Project in March 1974, Nairobi now enjoys an adequate water supply, although
work continues on the removal of some distribution constraints. The next
phase of the scheme, which will almost double the system capacity, is being
studied. Concurrent with increasing water use is the demand for sewerage
facilities in the city. The existing wastewater treatment capacity in
Nairobi is now exceeded by wastewater flows resulting in the overflow of raw
wastewater into its rivers. Many new areas under development as well as
some old areas in the city are still unsewered. To alleviate the existing
shortage and to meet future needs it will be necessary (a) to extend the



ANNEX 6
Page 5
system of sewers in the city for the collection of wastewater in new and
old unsewered areas, and (b) to construct additional wastewater treatment
capacity to adequately treat the collected wastewater prior to discharge
into the receiving waters. The First Stage Sewerage Program will meet
these objectives up to year 1979. The Program will provide an incremental
treatment capacity of 64,500 m3/day and trunk and reticulation sewers to
serve an additional population of about 400,000, and industrial flows with
a population equivalent of about 80,000 people.
17.       Projected water demands and wastewater flows up to 1985 are shown
in Table 3. The projections for water demands are based on NUSG's estimates
of population classified into various income groupings, and estimated per
capita consumption for each consumer class. Sewerage flows are calculated
from water use by consumers who are presently served by sewers or will be
served under the Nairobi Sewerage Program. Since the program is rather
ambitious (target cf 60% of total population served in 1975 and 77% in 1985),
it is likely to be over-optimistic. However as the program does not contain
very lumpy investments at any one phase, it is possible to curb investment
should future sewage flows not be as high as projected.
18.       The work in the proposed First Stage Program has been found to be
the best solution among the various alternatives considered from the tech-
nical, financial and economic points of view. The selected site for the
treatment works (para. 12) is advantageously located for the use of sewage
effluent for field irrigation, a process which appears at present to be
the most economical method of advanced treatment required after 1985.
19.       If demand grows as forecast, the economic internal rate of return
for the combined FiLrst and Second Stages of the program (capacity to be
reached in 1985) is estimated at about 15.3%. The analysis assumes a shadow
foreign exchange rate of US$1 = K Shs1O.00 (against an official exchange rate
of US$1 = K Shs7.10), and benefits represented by sewerage revenues at the
current price of K ShsO.88/m3 (K Shs4.0/1000 Ig). The percentage cost for
labour is expected to be small in sewerage construction work, and most of
the labour employed will be skilled. Since skilled labour is in short supply
in Kenya, labour costs have not been shadow priced. However, to give some
indication of the sensitivity of the IRR to reduction in local costs (such
as arising from shadow pricing labour, and the elimination of hidden tax
elements in the cost of local goods and services), a test has been made using
local costs reduced by a factor of 0.9. A resulting increase in the IRR of
about 3/4% is obtained. Using similar assumptions the IRR for the First
Stage only (capacity at 1979) is 13.2%, without giving credit for excess
capacities in certain trunk sewers at the end of this stage. Cost and benefit
streams used in the calculations are shown in Tables 10 and 11. Results of
the IRR calculations and sensitivity analyses for changes in shadow foreign
exchange rates, and benefits calculated from sewerage charges are shown in
Figure 1. Some outstanding features of the analyses are tabulated below:



ANNEX 6
Page 6
Analysis Assumption                       Effect on IRR
a.   Change in foreign exchange shadow
price + (-) 15%                           - (+)1% approx.
b.   Per 10% increase (decrease) in
sewerage charge rate (for calculating
benefits)                                 + (-)1% approx.
20.       Capital cost estimates for the First Stage Program are based on
preliminary engineering by SWECO using unit prices experienced with recent
NCC sewerage contracts, and from informal quotations provided by contractors
and suppliers. These estimates are therefore considered to be reasonable
sound. Capital cost of sewerage works in the Second Stage Program has been
estimated using an average annual capital expenditure for service trunk and
reticulation sewers based on the First Stage Program, and sewage treatment
facilities (at current estimated unit prices) sized to meet projected sewage
flows. Cost estimates for this stage are therefore less reliable, but as
they occur later in the cost stream, their effect on the IRR is correnspond-
ingly less significant. In the event of a cost over-run of 20% on capital
works (which is not expected to be exceeded), the IRR will be reduced by
about 1.7%. Sewerage operation and maintenance costs are small compared to
capital costs and benefits, and the effect of changes in these costs on the
IRR is therefore negligible.
21.       Benefits used in calculating the IRR are taken to be the revenue
from sewerage service provided at the current rate for charges. Although
in some cases the service is enforced by law (para. 41), there is evidence
that most residents and plot-holders are willing to have the service. The
ratio of sewerage use charge to household income averages to about 1.6%,
and ranges from about 0.5% in the 20% of households in the highest income
bracket to about 2.6% for the 20% in the lowest income bracket. Secondary
benefits will also accrue to dwellers along the rivers whose environs have
been improved as a result of the program, as well as to others who derive
use from the riverwater. These benefits, including but not restricted to
improved health conditions, increased recreational facilities, and better
farm products, cannot be assessed quantitatively, and have not been included
in the calculations.
22.       It is possible for actual revenues to fall below projected revenues
due to over-estimates in sewage discharges, but as mentioned in para. 17 the
program can be slowed down should this happen thus minimizing the undesirable
effect of sunk captial costs. Nevertheless it is prudent to allow for the
possibility of a continued program as planned in spite of some small (say 5%)
short-fall in revenue. Moreover the effect of a reduction in revenue is not
completely counteracted by a curtailment of capital expenditure made at a
later date. The risks represented by increased costs and reduced revenues
are summarized below:



ANNEX 6
Page 7
Effect on IlEE
20% increase in capital cost            - 1.7%
Increase in 0. & M. cost               negligible
5% reduction in revenue                 - 0.5%
Total                        - 2.2%
The pessimistic estimates of the IRR based on tangible costs and benefits are
therefore 13.1% for-the combined First and Second Stages Program, and 11.0%
for the First Stage Program only.
D. Sewerage Works required for the Dandora Site and Service Project
23.       The site for the Dandora Site and Service Project is located in
the Nairobi River watershed, immediately downstream of the Kariobangi Sewage
Treatment Works on the opposite bank of the river. The original concept for
off-site sewering of this project included a pair of short site service
trunk sewers from the site to new waste stabilization ponds sized for the
project and located near Nairobi River about 5-1/2 km. downstream of the
Kariobangi S.W.T. Later studies disclosed that it would be better to have
the site service trunk sewers connected to the proposed main trunk sewer at
Nairobi River, which was included in the First Stage Sewerage Program (para.
10). A major reason for this decision was there were land acquisition
problems at the proposed site for the stabilization ponds.
24.       After several meetings between Bank mission members and NCC it was
decided that the Site and Service Project would include, in addition to the
site service trunk sewers, the portion of the main trunk sewer from the
discharge point of the site service trunk sewers to Site D (para. 12), and
a sewage treatment works of 30,000 m3/day capacity at site D. This was
confirmed during the negotiations in March 1975.
25.       The completion date for the sewerage work is estimated to be in
mid-1978. The project will also bear the cost of constructing a temporary
waste stabilization pond at an old quarry site owned by NCC to provide sewage
treatment for an initial phase of 1000 housing units of'the project scheduled
for mid-1976.
26.       Off-site sewerage works to be included in the Site and Service
Project are summarized as follows, together with their estimated costs:



ANNEX 6
Page 8
Off-Site Sewerage Works
Cost Estimate
KL 000's                 US$ 000's
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Temporary waste stabili-
zation pond                         8        4      12       22       11      33
Service trunk sewers from site
to main trunk sewer               112       55     167      314      154     468
Main trunk sewer to Site D
(approx. 14.5 km)                 882     434   1,316   2,470   1,215   3,685
Sewage treatment works at
Site D (30,000 m3/day)            353      174     527      988     487      147
Land                                 71-      -        71     199       -      199
Consulting services                  68      157     225      190      440     630
Sub-Total                    1,494     824   2,318   4,183   2,307   6,490
Provision for Physical
Contingencies                     202      100     302      566     280      846
Total cost of work                1,696      924   2,620   4,749   2,587   7,336
(at Jan. 1975 prices)
Provision for Price
Increases                         641      342     983   1,795      958   2,753
Total Cost of Work                2,337   1,266   3,603   6,544   3,545  10,089
(at escalated prices)
27.       Inflation factors used in determining escalated prices are 15% for
1975, and 12% for 1976 and for each year thereafter.
28.       A proposed schedule for the off-site sewerage works based on the
sewage treatment works at Site D is shown in Figure 2. The sewerage works
are planned for completion in time to serve both the initial and final phases
of the Site and Service Project scheduled for mid-1976 and mid-1978 respec-
tively. A captial expenditure schedule for the sewerage works is shown in
Table 12.
29.       The design for the major part of these works will be carried out
by a consultant, and work on consultant selection is in hand. Engagement
of the consultant will be in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. The
urgent works consisting of the construction of the temporary waste stabili-
zation pond and a short length of site service trunk sewer to carry waste-
water to this pond, will be designed by staff of NCC's Water and Sewerage
Department.



ANNEX 6
Page 9
E.  The Nairobi Water and Sewerage Department
30.       The Nairobi Water and Sewerage Department (WSD) was established
in April 1970 as a precondition for a Bank Loan (714-KE) for the Nairobi
Water Supply Project. The department, which is one of seven departments
of NCC, is headed by a General Manager and is responsible for all water
supply and sewerage activities of the city. He is assisted by two Deputy
Managers--one for engineering operations and the other in charge of finan-
cial and commercial matters. A separate small unit under the General Manager
is in charge of administration of the department.
31.       The Deputy Manager (Engineering) controls three sections whose
responsibilities are divided on a functional basis. Operations and main-
tenance of the water system are dealt with by one section while another
section is responsible for the sewerage system. The third section is con-
cerned with planning, design and construction of both water supply and
sewerage projects. Due to difficulty in obtaining qualified people to staff
these sections, work in the third section is now limited to overall super-
vision of work done under consultants, general planning, and design and con-
struction of minor extensions in the water supply system. The responsibility
for planning, deisgn and construction of sewerage works has fallen on the
Sewerage Operations and Maintenance Section with the help of consultants.
Fortunately, to date such work has only been minor, and the Section has been
able to cope despite the fact that the Section is still not fully manned.
32.       The Deputy Manager (Commercial) is responsible for finance, billing,
collection and accounting for water supply and sewerage under the general super-
vision and audit cf the City Treasurer. The commercial section has the responsi-
bility for meter reading, billing, monitoring of delinquent accounts, and
approving connections and disconnections. Water supply and sewerage bills
are processed using the NCC computer and are mailed or hand delivered. Pay-
ments for water supply and sewerage bills are collected by the City Treasurer's
staff for the department and the amounts collected are then posted to the
department's accounts.
33.       Materials and equipment used in water and sewerage operations are
at present kept in the City Central Stores and at the treatment plants. A
separate stores operation is planned for the department and construction of
the structure is nearing completion.
34.       Ever since its establishment, WSD has experienced serious diffi-
culty in recruiting qualified staff to man its organization. At the date
of the last Bank Mission (E. A. Projects) in October 1974, over 40% of its
about 40 approved professional positions were vacant. Of the professional
staff in service, at least 50% are expatriates holding the more senior
positions, some of whom have contracts which would expire in a few months.
The Department has made various extraordinary efforts to recruit professional
staff locally and abroad, and has so far had only limited success due to the
non-competitiveness of the salary offered by NCC. Despite the staff short-
age the department: has so far been able to carry out its functions without
severe mishaps.



ANNEX 6
Page 10
35.       In one of their study reports dated June 1974, SWECO has proposed
reorganization of the department to take into account the growing importance
of sewerage works, and procedural reformation to help streamline the opera-
tions of the department. This report has the support of the Bank mission
members and has now been approved in principle by NCC. It was agreed during
the negotiations that NCC will undertake to prepare and submit to the Bank
by September 30, 1975 a plan of implementation based on these recommendations.
F. Sewerage Service
36.       The Water and Sewerage Department charges a one-time charge for
sewerage service to new users, and a use charge based on water consumption.
37.       The sewerage service charge is charged to the plot owner and is
in two parts:
1.   A charge to recover part of the cost of constructing service
trunk and reticulation sewers to serve the plot. The formula
at present used by NCC is that the cost of all sewers of
diameters 230 m.m. (9 inches) and below which are within the
area under development are entirely borne by the plot holders.
For sewers larger than 230 m.m. the plot holders pay only the
cost of an equivalent 230 m.m. sewer and NCC bears the rest
of the cost. Apportionment of cost to plot holders is based
on plot size. Sewerage service charges are due upon notifica-
tion by NCC after apportionment, and can be paid either in a
lump sum or in equal installments over a period of not exceed-
ing 10 years at 8%' interest on outstanding balance. There is
usually a lag of about one year between the time of completion
of sewer construction and the lump sum or first installment
payment of the service charge.
2.   A connection fee of KShs5O for a normal domestic user.
Connection fees for larger users are based on actual cost.
These fees are due before the connection is made.
38.       Sewerage use charge is based on water consumption, and is billed
together with the water charges. The present sewerage use rate is K ShsO.88/1E3
(K Shs4.0/1000 Ig) of water consumed with a minimum charge of K Shs8.50 per
month. Some rebates are given to a few consumers who can prove that a sub-
stantial amount of the water used is not discharged into the sewerage system.
39.       Some large developers may elect to construct part or all of the
reticulation sewers which will serve the lots they are developing. In this
case the sewers will have to be constructed to WSD's specifications and be
handed over to be maintained by the department on completion.



ANNEX 6
Page 11
40.       In general all newly developed areas will receive sewerage service
if they lie within the areas which are or planned to be sewered by the
department. The present policy of the department regarding service to new
areas is based on economics: the department has found that sewerage service
to areas with a population density of less than 30 persons per hectare does
not pay off. For low population density areas WSD recommends the use of
septic tanks or conservancy cesspools. WSD provides enptying service for a
charge on a per load basis.
41.       Properties which are not connected to the sewerage system will be
required by statute to do so as soon as a sewer is laid within 70 yards of
the plots. The plot-holders are given a period of 3 months to comply with
this regulation. Some difficulty is encountered by WSD in enforcing this
regulation, particularly with older properties which require expensive modi-
fications to the plumbing system and where property values are not expected
to be enhanced much with the sewer connection.
G. Financial Aspects
Accounting and Audits
42.       All water supply and sewerage accounts have been separated from the
rest of the City Council's accounts since the establishment of the WSD in
1970. Together with the City Council's accounts, they are computerized and
maintained by the City Treasurer's Department.  The City Council normally
maintains one bank account for the deposit of cash generated by its various
departments; however, WSD has, in agreement with the City Treasurer, opened
its separate bank account effective July 1, 1974.
43.       Audit responsibility rests with the Auditor General who has con-
tracted two private auditing firms (Gill & Johnson, and Pannell, Bellhouse,
Mwangi & Co.) to jointly audit the accounts of the entire City Council, in-
cluding those of the WSD. Because of the delay in closing the accounts and
the lengthy review process before audited accounts are finalized and pub-
lished, the City Council has not been able to meet the requirement under
Loan 714-KE of submitting to the Bank audited annual accounts within six
months after the close of the fiscal year. During a supervision mission
in June 1974, it was agreed that WSD's accounts will be audited separately
from other City Council's accounts by these private independent auditors,
and will be submitted to the Bank together with the auditors' report within
six months after the close of the fiscal year. This arrangement is satis-
factory under existing circumstances.
Operating Results and Financial Position
44.       WSD's income statements for water supply operations for the three
years ending December 31, 1974 are shown on Table 4. While revenues have



ANNEX 6
Page 12
conformed to estimates made during the appraisal of Loan 714-KE, operating
expenses have been higher by 30% in 1972 to 50% in 1974. The rate of return,
defined in the loan covenant as income before depreciation and interest
divided by gross fixed assets revalued annually from a cost index for Nairobi,
has fallen to 6.6% in 1973, which is below the required 7.5%. Trying to
correct the situation, NCC has increased the water tariff effective March 1,
1975 from K Sh1.43 per cubic meter (KSh6.5 per thousand Ig) to K Shl.76 per
cubic meter (K Sh8.0 per thousand Ig). A further increase to K Sh2.2 per
cubic meter (K Sh1O.0 per thousand Ig) by the end of 1975 is under consideration
by NCC.
45.       WSD's income statement for sewerage operations for the year ending
December 1973 is shown on Table 5. Although operating income is well below
the Loan 714-KE appraisal estimates, WSD has amply met the requirement under
this Loan of generating sufficient revenues to cover operating expenses for
its sewerage and waste disposal services and to meet debt service on long-
term loans incurred for such services. In order to increase its internal
cash generation for the financing of the First Stage Sewerage Program, NCC
has increased the sewerage use rate from K ShO.77 per cubic meter (K Sh3.5
per thousand Ig) of metered water consumption to K ShO.88 per cubic meter
(K Sh4.0 per thousand Ig) effective March 1, 1975. A further increase to
K Shl.1 per cubic meter (K Sh5.0 per thousand Ig) before the end of 1975 is
under consideration by NCC.
46.       Provisional water supply and sewerage balance sheets as of
December 31, 1973 are shown on Table 5. WSD's overall financial situation
has been viable with a very strong liquidity position. It has accumulated
cash of the order of KE 1.6 million at the end of 1973. With assets valued
at historical costs, the debt/equity ratio is 61:39, as compared to 74:26 at
the time of appraisal of Loan 714-KE. Nevertheless, WSD has had serious
arrears problem. Its accounts receivable amounted to almost Kb 0.7 million
at the end of 1973 which was equivalent to about 3.7 months of billings.
WSD has recently embarked on an intensive collection program, and it is ex-
pected that its arrears situation will improve substantially.
Financing Plan
47.       The financing plan for sewerage during the five-year period 1975
through 1979, which is extracted from the detailed funds flow projections on
Tables 6 to 9, is shown below:



ANNEX 6
Page 13
KE           US$
Application of Funds                            Thousand      Thousand
Off-Site Sewerage Works incorporated            3,604       10,091        35.5
in Site and Service Project
Other Works of the First Stage Program          5,864       16,420        57.8
Interest during construction                      687        1,923         6.7
Total Construction Cost                10,155        28,434       100.0
Sources of Funds
Proposed IBRD Loan                              1,982        5,550        19.5
Government Loan                                 1,622        4,542        16.0
Other Loans                                     2,700        7,560        26.6
Total Borrowings                        6,304        17,652        62.1
Internal cash generation                       4,739        13,269        46.7
Less:  Debt service                             1,850        5,180        18.2
Net Internal cash generation                    2,889        8,089        28.5
Contributions from Customers                      674        1,887         6.6
Decrease in working capital                       288           806        2.8
Total Sources of Funds                 10,155        28,434       100.0
48.       It was agreed during the negotiations that the Bank will finance
55% of the costs of the off-site sewerage works incorporated in the Site and
Service Project with a loan of about KE2.0 million equivalent, which will bear
8.5% interest for a period of 25 years including four years of grace. It was
also agreed that the Government will finance the remaining 45% with a loan of
K11.6 million at 6.5% interest for a period of 25 years including 4 years of
grace.
49.       It has been assumed that WSD will be able to contract other loans
totalling KE2.5 million at 8% interest for 15 years without grace, to fill
the financing gap required to implement, as planned, the entire First Stage
Sewerage Program f.or Nairobi during 1974-1979. In the event that WSD cannot
raise such funds, WSD's internally generated cash combined with customers'
-contributions and the loans mentioned in para. 48 above could still enable
a major part (73%) of the First Stage Program to be implemented inasmuch as
this stage can be phased as noted earlier in paragraph 9.



ANNEX 6
Page 14
Future Operations
50.       Results of WSD's sewerage operations for the years 1974 through
1979 are shown in the income statements on Table 7. Revenues are projected
to more than double, from about KtO.7 million in 1974 to KL1.7 million in
1979. Internal cash generation is expected to increase three-fold, from
KEO.4 million in 1974 to KE1.2 million in 1979. Debt service coverage will
be at least 1.60 during this entire period.



ANNEX 6
Page 15
Figure 1
NAIROBI SEWERAGE PROGRAM
IRR and Sensitivity Analysis
1.2
Local costs not I_
1.1  reduced
i 1.0           X_ .iv7_    i _  
C',~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
C) 0.8 X
4  0.
10  11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22
IRR (%)
1.2
Lcls  cstsare---     e                           000 I    0  Ill        /  S  
1.1 of 0.9~~~~~~~~~~~~oeo
QD09  lRT=ae13.2%1
-  ^ = 9 l   X                      C      S      hO~~~~~~~~~~~~Sh. 88
0.8
(D
C',
1~  0.7             00~000
0               00ae1sjtoetero
0.6
10 11    12    1314    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22



Offr- slte  Seeerave  Works for_Si             2 ;1f Service Prolgct
Works SecAu/e
1974__~1 9 7 5                                                          i 9 7 G                                           1 9 77           -19 78
N D J  F M  A M  i J A  SO  ND  JFNMA  M.U  JA  SON  -5- 7T'M  A M  j j  A3  O N  D J F M A  M J  J
Ne yo?atl~O
Project Loan           _____            Lat6hi?
t. S.R De #*K?e
Wekdivx    AMCC
Trtunk Sewers
SWi, r werke d,m   -Aan K eoz eaA 6,6ctm-
___m_F/5   rebddouet                 bid eM/sa km                                seir
ISu,i,e r/w site
Sewa,qe Treotment                          ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ pawre bid doumeA             bid &evalaaholn"   ~            Coetnct.A.lokIi/'zaAcrn b            ___________
dizk for
TI'l It"M  "I'll       inle s*rd&ve                               Intal I   iWak
re67e                             Conerrotdion,,.                                                            rjc
Ulrgent Work-s       ~      ~



AN.NEX-6
Pase 17
Table I
K E N Y A
NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL
Water & Sewerage Department
Capital Works Program
(KE Thousand)
(@ Jan. 1974 Prices Incl. 15% Physical Contingency and 10% Design & Supervision)
To be Recovered
Cost up to                                                                                                 from Plot Owners
Items                             Enid 1973      1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    Total                       %
I. Trunk Sewers
A  I  Industrial Area                            170          100       10                                                                      280              5
A  2  Chiro=o Phase I                                          30       40                                                                       70             40
A  3  Chiromo Phase II                                                  60       20                                                              80             50
A  4  Thompson Estate                                                            85       28        7                                           120             50
A  5  Riruta North                                                                        35       23                                            58             60
A  6  Riruta South                                                                        47       23                                            70             60
A  7  Nairobi River Valley VI                                           10       30                                                              40             60
A  8  Nairobi River Valley VII                                                   25      127                                                    152             60
A  9  Nairobi River Valley VIII                                                                    50       38                                   88             60
A 10  Southern Trunk Sewer                                              30                                                                       30              5
A 13  Dandora Industrial Area                                                    60       50       10                                           120              0
A 14  Kariobangi S.T.W. to A7                                                            300      150       50                                  500              0
A 15  Ruaraka                                                                            121       12                                           133             60
A 16  Gitathura                                                                           44        6                                            50              0
A 17  Kahawa West                                                        5       10                                                              15             90
A 18  AID Housing, Kariobangi                                                    25        5                                                     30              0
A 19  Muthiaga                                                                   10        5                                                     15             90
A 20  Bahati River Crossing                                                      15                                                              15              0
Others                                                           10       10       10       10      100                                  140             18
Future                                                                                                       300      300      300  _   900              18
Total Trunk Sewers (N.C.C.)           170         130       ,5      2S7       772     291      188      300      300       300    2&906
A 11  IBRD Dandora                                                      44       17      114                                                    175
A 12 Dandora Trunk A7 to S.T.W."D"
(IBRD)                                                          37      182      752      396       43                                1,410
Total Trunk Sewers (IBRD)             -    =                 81     19>       856      396       43      .                         1,585
II. Sewer Reticulation
B  1  Hill Area III                               40           30        5                                                                       75             80
B  2  Upper Parklands                                           5       50       10        5                                                     70             90
B  3  Nairobi River Valley V                                            60       50       10                                                    120            100
B  4  Nairobi River Valley VI                                                    60       30       10                                           100            100
B  5  Chiromo I                                                         20       25       10                                                     55            100
B  6  Chiromo II                                                        30       80       30       10                                           150            100
B  7  Thompson Estate                                                                    100      100       40       10                         250            100
B  8  Rangemi                                                                                      60       50       10                         120            100
B  9  Kawangware                                                                                   40       15        5                          60            100
B 10  Riruta                                                                                       30       15        5                          50            100
B 11 Waithaka                                                                             20                                                     20            100
B 12 Others                                                             10       10       10       10       10       10                          60            100
Future                                    -____                                                                        200      200       400             95
Total Reticulation (N.C.C.)            40          35      175      235      215      260      130       40       20       200    1,530
III.  Treatment Works
C  1  Industrial Area I                           25           60       40                                                                      125
C  2  Industrial Area II                                       60        5                                                                       65
C  3  Kahawa                                                            20                                                                       20
C  4  Kariobangi Improvements                                           20        5                                                              25
C  7  Land                                                              601Y   440                                                              500
Dandora Estate (Phase II)                                                                  210      210                                  420
Future                                     -         __                                                      300      300      300       900
Total S.T.W. (N.C.C.)                  25         120      145      445               210      210      300      300       300    2_055
C  5  Dandora Estate (Phase I)                                          15       68      325      141       16                                  565
Temporary Ponds Dandora                 _                        12                                                   _                    12
Total S.T.W. (IBED)                                          27       68     325       141       16      -        -        -         577
~~~=    = =   = === 
1/ Land incluLed in IBRD Site and Service Proj ect.
IBiD
January 8, 1975



ANNEX 6
PaNe 18
Toble 2
K E N Y A
NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL
Water & Se-erase Department
Capital Works Program
(XL Thouasnd)
(N Escalated Priceg Incl.di.a 15% Physical Contingencv & 10% Design & SuPerlision)
T.o be Recovered
fro Plot O-naer
Cost up to                                                                                                                        Amornt
Items                      End 1973      1974       1915       1976       1977       1978      1979       1980       1981       1982       Total     7    Kh Thcusand
I. Trunk Sewers
A  1  Industrial Area                       170.0       109.0      12.7                                                                                   291.7      5         14,6
A  2  Chiro-o Ph.ne I                                    32.7      50.8                                                                                    83.5    40         3;.4
A  3  Chiromo Ph.ne II                                             76.2       28.8                                                                        105.0    50          52.5
A  4  Thoup.ov  Estate                                                       122.4       45.1       12.6                                                  180.1    50          9C.0
A  5  Riruta North                                                                       56.4       41.4                                                   97.8    60          56.7
A  6  Riruta South                                                                       75.7       41.4                                                  117.1    60          7C.3
A  7  Nairobi River Valley VI                                      12.7       43.2                                                                         55.9    60          33.6
A  S Nairobi River Valley VII                                                 36.0      204.5                                                             240.5    60         144.3
A  9 Nairobi River Valley VIII                                                                      90.0      76.8                                        166.8    60        100.0
A 10  Southero Trunk Seser                                         38.1                                                                                    38.1      5          1.9
A 13  Da-dura Industrial Area                                                 86.4       80.5       18.0                                                  184.9      0
A 14  Kariobangi S.T.W. to A7                                                           483.0      270.0     101.0                                        854.0      0
A 15  Ruarkak                                                                           194.8       21.6                                                  216.4    60         129.9
A 16  Citathur-                                                                          70.8       10.8                                                   81.6      0         -
A 17  Kahava Went                                                   6.4       14.4                                                                         20.8    90          113.7
A 18  AID Housing, Kariobangi                                                 36.0        8.1                                                              44.1      0         -
A 19  Methiaga                                                                14.4        8.1                                                              22.5    90         20.3
A 20  Bahati Riv-r Crossing                                                   21.6                                                                         21.6      0         -
Others                                                       12.7       14.4      16.1       18.0      202.0                                       263.2    18          47.4
Future                                                                         _                                  678.0      759.0     852.0    2,289.0    18          412.0
Total Tru-k Soers (.C.C.)          170.0       141.7     709.6       417.6    1.2.1       523.8      379.8      678.0     759.0      852.0    5,374.6              1.227 6
A 11  IBRO Dandors N & W Sewern                                    55.9       24.5      183.5                                                             263.9
A 12  ISRD Dandora Trunk A7 to S.T.W."D"                           46.9      2b2.1   1,210.7       712.8      87.9                                     2,320.4
Total Trunk Sewers (IBRD)            -         _          102 .     286.6   1,394.2       7'12.8    -.9        __ -                   -
II. Sewer Reticulation
B  I  Hill Area III                          40.0       32.7        6.4                                                                                    79.1    80         63.3
B  2  Upper Parklands                                    5.5       63.5       14.4        8.1                                                              91.5    90         82.4
B  3 Nairobi River Valley V                                        76.2       72.0       16.1                                                             164.3   100        164.3
B 4  Nairobi River Valley VI                                                  86.4       48.3       18.0                                                  152.7   100        152.7
B  5  Chiro-o I                                                    25.4       36.0       16.1                                                              77.5   100         77.5
B  6  Chiro-o II                                                   38.1      115.2       48.3       18.0                                                  219.6   100        219.6
B  7  Thossson Estate                                                                   161.0     180.0       80.8       22.6                             444.4   100        444.4
B  8  Kangemi                                                                                     108.0      101.0       22.6                             231.6   100        231.6
B  9  Knwaog-are                                                                                   72.0       30.3       11.3                             113.6   100        113.6
B 10  Riruta                                                                                       54.0       30.3       11.3                              95.6   100         95.6
1 11  Waithaka                                                                           32.2                                                              32.2   100         32.2
O 12  Others                                                       12.7       14.4       16.1       18.0      20.2       22.6                             104.0   100        104.0
Fu ture                                        _____    _            _                                                       506.0     568.0 1O 074.0    95          1.020.3
Total Reticulation (N.C.C.)         40.0        38.2      222,3     338.4      346.2      468.0      262.6       90.4     306.0      568.0    2.880.                  015
III. Treatment Works
C  I  Industriol Area I                      25.0       65.4       50.8                                                                                   141.2
C  2  Industrial Area II                                65.4        6.4                                                                                    71.8
C  3 Kahawa                                                        25.4                                                                                    25.4
C  4  Kariobangi Improvements                                      25.4        7.2                                                                         32.6
C  7  Land                                                         76.2 V   633.6                                                                         709.8
Daudora Estate (Phase ii)                                                                   378.0      424.2                                       802.2
Future                               __           _                  ,         _                                  678.0      759.0     852.0    2,289.0
Total S.T.W. (N.C.C.)               25.0       130.8      184.2     640.8       -         378.0      424.2      678.0     759.0      852.0    4.072.D
C  5  Dandora Estate (phane I)                                     19.0       98.0      523.0      253.8      32.3                                        926.1
Temporary Poodo Dandora                        _             15.3                                            _                                      15.3
Total S.T.W. (I8RD)                  _           _         34.3       98.0     523.0      253 8       32.3       -          -         -          941.4
1/  Lan3 include   in ZP   Site and Service Projsect.
T7lL



ANNEX 6
Page 19
Table 3
KENYA
APPRAISAL CF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Projected Water Demand and Wastewater Flows
Year           Water Demand (Av.)        Wastewater Flows (Av.)
IMDG      m3/day            IMGD       m3/day
1972           16.6       75,400            11.0       50,000
1973           18.0       81,8oo            12.1       55,000
1974           19.4       88,200            13.5       61,200
1975           21.0       95,400            14.9       67,800
1976           24.0      109,100            16.5       75,200
1977           26.4      120,000            18.3       83,100
1978           28.7      130,400            20.3       92,200
1979           31.0      140,900            22.2      101,000
1980           33,2      150,900            24.7      112,100
1981           35.6      161,800            27.2      123,400
1982           37.9      172,300            29.8      135,600
1983           40.3      183,200            32.9      149,400
1984           43.0      195,400            36.0      163,400
1985           45.6      207,300            39.2      178,200
Av.  growth             8.1% p.a.                    10.3% p.a.
(1972 to 1985)



KENYA
NAIRUBI CITY COUNCIL
Water suapi and Sewerage De2partnt
INCOME STATEMENTS
WATER SUPPLY OPERATIONS
(KL tosn)
Year Ehding December 31                                  1972                          1973                   1974
IBRD Appr.              1/  IBRD Appr.  Current        IBRD Appr.
Actual     Estimate      Pre-Audited   Forecast    Estimate       Fbrecast
Volume Produced (thousands of m3)                   28,592       28,579        27,970       30,756        33,088        32,515
Volume Sold (thousands of m3)                       23,420       24,293        22,657       26,143        27,134        27,638
Unaccounted for Water                                  18%          15%           19%          15%           18%           15%
Water Price (KSh/m3) or                               1.43         1.31          1.43         1.31          1.43          1.31
(KSh/thousand gallons)                  (6.5)        (5.97)         (6.5)      (5.97)         (6.5)        (5.97)
Number of Connections                               37,60o       36,130        41,370       40,090        45,000        42,090
REVENUES
Fater Billings                                    1,658        1,596         1,620        1,717         1,940         1,815
Other                                               131           87             90          91           104            96
TDTAL REVENUE                                1,789       I76            1,710                      2,o4 1,911
OPERATING EXPENSES
Labor                                                36           42            35           44            76            51
Chemical                                             31           38            32           41            68            48
Power & Fuel                                          2            2            24            2            32            20
General & Administration                            443          316           486          334           620           418
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                       512         357 77                      421           737 7
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION                           1,277        1,285         1,133        1,387         1,248         1,374
Depreciation                                        97          272           202          273           191           273
Interest                                           274          301           286          287           288           273
INOOME AFTER DEPRECIATION & INTEREST                   806          712           645          827           769           828
NON-OPERATING INCOME                                     17          16             81           16            71            16
NET INOOME                                             823          72             7-2T        8T            840           SW
Return on Gross Fixed Assets 2/                       7.6%         6.4%           6.6%        9.0%          6.1%          8.9%
1/ Subject to audit.
2/ Defined as income before depreciation and interest divided by gross fixed                    
assets revalued annually by Government indices.
December 16, 1974



ANNEX 6
Page 21
Tarbl e 5
KENYA
NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
Provisional Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1973
(KL Thousand)
AssetW                                        Water     Sewerage     Consolidated
Net assets in operation                 59255       2,430          7,685
Work in progress                        2,756         192           2,948
Total fixed assets                 8,011       2,622         10,633
Accounts receivable                       487         199            686
Less: Bad debt reserve                    (57)        (23)            80)
'43-0       76             z-
Cash and bank deposits                  1,150         432          1,582
Other current assets                      207           3            210
Total current assets               1,787        611           2,398
Other assets                              117          80            197
Total assets                       9,915      3.313          13,228
Equity and Liabilities
Total equity                            3,572       1,403          4,975
Long-term debt                          5,928       1,883          7,811
Less: Current maturities                 (191)        (93)          (284)
5,737      1,790           7,527
Accounts payable                           52          15             67
Customer deposits                         235           8-           243
Current maturities                        191          93            284
Total current liabilities            478        116             594
Other liabilities                         128           4            132
Total equity and liabilities       9,915      3,313          13,228



ANNEX 6
Page 22
Table 6
KENYA
NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL
WATER AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
Financial Projections for Sewerage Operations
Notes and Assumptions
Income Statements
Sewerage Billings
Billings have been calculated on the assumption that sewerage tariff
will be increased from the present K Sh 4.0 per thousand Ig of water consumed
(effective March 1, 1975) to K Sh 5.0 effective January 1, 1976. Sewage
collection volume has been based on estimated population connected to the
sewer system and per capita water consumption in each class of population.
Operation Expenses
Salaries, supplies and general and administrative expenses have
been assumed to increase by 10% per annum.
Labor has been projected to increase by 10% per annum except for
1976 and 1978 during which years bonus increases of 8% have been added.
Expenses for power have been estimated to increase by 30%, 25%,
20%, 15% and 10% during 1975 to 1979, respectively.
Depreciation
Depreciation has been calculated on a straight line basis at an
average rate of 2.5% of fixed assets in operation other than land.
Balance Sheets
Work in Progress
Work in progress has been transferred to assets in operation in
the year of completion.
Construction Works
It has been assumed that the entire First Stage (1974-1979) of the
sewerage development program for Nairobi will be implemented as planned.
This first Stage includes, amongst other things, trunk sewers to and sewage
treatment plant at site "D".



ANNEX 6
Page 23
Table 6 (cont'd)
Loans
The IBRI) loan of KE2.0 million will be on-lend to the Nairobi
City Council/WSI) at 8.5% interest for a period of 25 years, including four
years of grace, repayable through equal annual (or semi-annual) level pay-
ments of principal and interest combined, commencing in 1979. The Government
loan of KE1.6 miLlion will carry a 6.5% interest for 25 years including 4
years of grace. All interests on these loans during the construction period
have been capitalized.
It has also been assumed that loans other than the above to be
contracted for implementing the rest of the First Stage Sewerage Program
would carry an interest rate of 8% per annum and repayable in 15 years
without grace through equal annual level payments of principal and interest
combined. Fifty percent of the interests on these loans during the construc-
tion period have been capitalized.
Customers' Contributions
Percentages of the expenditures for reticulation systems to be
recovered from the customers are given in Tables 1 & 2.  The Water and
Sewerage Department normally offers these customers the choice of paying
such amounts either immediately in full or over a period of ten years
including an 8% interest. It has been assumed, based on past experience,
that 40% of the customers would pay immediately their shares.
Accounts Payable
Accounts payable has been assumed to increase by 10% each year.
Accounts Receivable
Accounts receivable has been assumed to reduce to 20% of billings
at the end of 1975 and further to 17.0% at the end of each year thereafter.



ANNEX 6
Page 24
K F  J Y A               Table 7
NAIROBI CITY COUrNc CIL
WATER AND S EWE RAGE DEPARTMENT
OPERATING STATEMENT PROJECTIONS (SEWERAGE)
(Kn TH0USANDS)
PROVISIONAL                      FORECAST
YEAR ENDING DEC. 31   1973         1974    1975      1976      197?     1978    L79
AVE.SEil.VOL.COLLECTED 3577        4143    46i42    5109       5617    6163      67i62
SEW.PRICE (KSH/1000IG) 3.5          3.5      3.92     5.0       5.0      5.0
OPERATING REVENUES
=___.______________
SEWERAGE [[ILLIlNGS       626       725      209     1277    1i044    1541    1690
OT!iER                      13       1I4      1        1         17       13       19
639      739 ___          1293      11121    1559     179
OPERATING EXPENSE
_________________
LABOR                      52       6f2       63       30        39      104      115
SALARIES                   82        90       99      109      120       132     :II15
POWER                      10        20       26       32        39      I45       49
SUPPLIES                   28        34       37       41        45       50       55
ADMINIST-GEN4ERAL         103       119      131      1412      158      174     :192
OTHER                        1        1        1         2        2        2        3
DEPRECIATIOtl              3 7       9        99      110      125       167      2 2
TOTAL OP EXPENSE          368       4128     4 z1     518      578  - 74          78a
OPERATING INCOME          271       321     4463      775      8243      385      921
OTHER INCOME-NET             5        5        5         6       11       37       6
NET INCOtE [3EF. INT      2         3246              731        54      922       i
INTEREST NOT CAPIT        120      1124      110      11i      152       170     !146
NET INCOtME               15        212 l             665      702       752      5
OPERATING RATIO 
(BEFORE DEPREC.)           44        44       39       32        32       33       33
OPERATING RATIO %
(AFTER [)EPREC.)           58        57       50       110       41       43       46
MARCHi 14, 1975



ANNEX 6
K E tl Y A
NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL
WATER AND SEVIERAGE DEPARTMEtIT
BALANCE SHlEETS PROJECTIONS (SEWIERAGE)
(K*  TOUISANlDS)
PROVISIONAL                      FORECAST
YEAR ENDING D)EC. 31   1?73       1974      1975    1976        7      1978      1972
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
GROSS IN OPERATION       3583     3775     4237      5389     6006     8757   11024
LESS:DEPRECIATION        115      1245     1344    1454         7      174i    1975
NET IN OPERATION         2430     2530    2893       3935     4427     7011      9049
l/ORR IN PROGRESS         192       142      455     1145     4223     4023      3048
SUBTOTAL                 22    2672         3l348    5080     8650   11034   12097
CURRENT ASSETS
INVENTORIES                 3         4        5        6        7         8        9
ACCOUNTSRECEIVABLE        199      196       236      229      253       272      286
LESS: BAD DEBT RESERVE  23           24       35       40       4S        48       51
176      172      201      189       208      224      235
CASH                      432      508       270     1I3        44        35      17_
SUBTOTAL                  61       6811    75     298          259       317      417
OTIHER ASSETS              80        80       80       30        80       Bo       80
TOTAL ASSETS             3313     3IJ3fi    3913     5458     8989    11431   12594
EnUITY+LIABILITIES
EQUITY
ACCUMULATED SIJRP.       1403     1615      1983    2638      3340     4092      4f30
CONTRIBUTIONl         _     0         0        0 o-I    117              367      6711
SUBTOTAL                 1        1615      1973     269 5    3457     4459 5
DEBT
LONGTERtl DEBT GROS    1883       1790     1905      2724     5489     6925      7238
LESS:CURRENT t1ATIJR       93       9R       116      153      180      R09      23R
LONG-TERM DEBT-NET       17 90    lf         1789    2571     5309     66It    GsnG
CURRENT LIABILIT.
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE           15        17       19       21       23        25       28
CUSTOMER D)EPOSITS          8         9       10       11       12        13       14
CURRENT NATURITIES         33        98      116      J180               309      RR2
SUBTOTAL                          112 /   145  95              215       377      374
OTHlER LIABILITIES           4        5        6        7         8        9       10
TOT.EOUITY+LIABIL        3313      3        3913     5458     8989   11431   12594
DEBT AS1 OF LONG-
TERN CAPITALI; TION        56        51       48       49       61        60       57
CURRENT RATIO            5.27     5.52      3.34     l.Cl    1.20      0.91      1.11
MARCHI 14, 1973



ANNEX 6
K E N Y A                     PFze 26
Table 9
NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL
IWATER AND SEllERAGE DEPARTMENT
FUND FLOWJ PROdECTIONS (SEWERAGE)
(K1 THOUSANDS)
YEAR ENDING DEC. 31             1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
SOURCES
INTERNAL CASH GEN.
__________________
NET INCO01E DEr.INT              326     4G8      781      854      922     984
DEPRECIATION                      92       9      110      125      167     229
SUBTOTAL                         41n    TT        891      979    1089    1213
CONTRIBUTIONIS
__________________
TO EQUITY                          0        0      57       6o      250     307
SUO3TOTAL                          0        0      57       Gn      250     307
BORROWINGS
__________________
IBRD LOAN                          0     117      212    1055      531       67
GOVT LOAN                          0       96     173      863      435      55
OTHER LOANS                        0        0     550    1000       6ro     500
SUBTOTAL                           0      213     935    2918    176 
OTHER SOURCES
=_________________
CHG.IN CUR.LIAB.               .            3       3        3        3       4
SUBTOTAL                           3        3       3        3        3       4
TOTAL SOtJRCES                  1TT       783    1886    3960    2957    2146
APPLICATIONS
CONSTRUCTION
OTHER WORK.S OF 1ST STAGE        142      540    1397    1590    1270    1067
IBRD PROJECT                       0      213     385    1918      966      122
INTEREST CAPITALIZ                 0      22       60      137     315      103
SUBTOTAL                         142      775    1        3695    2551    1292
DEBT SERVICE
________ _________
AMORTIZATION                      93       98     116      153      180     309
INTEREST NOT CAP.                114     110      116      152     170      446
SUBTOTAL                         207      208     232      305      350     755
OTHER APPLICATIONS
__________________
CHANGE IN CASH                    76    -229    -176       -59       41      88
CHG.IN OTH.CUR.ASS                -3       30     -11       20       17      12
OTHER APPLIC-NET                  -1       -1      -1       -1       -1      -1
SUBTOTAL                          72    -200    -198       -40       57      99
TOTAL APPLICATION                421      783    18       3960    2958    2146
DEBT SERVICE COVE-
RED BY INTERNAL
CASH GEN.(TIMES)                2.02    2.73    3.84    3.21    3.11    1.61
ACCUMULATED CASH
AT END OF YEAR                   508      279     103       44       85     173
MARCH 14, 1975



KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Nairobi Sewerage Program
Costs and Benefits - KWOOO's
(January 1974 prices)
(First and Second Stages Together)
Year               ICosts                                         Benefits
Capital             U. & M.          Costs Recovered from   Sewerage Revenue
Local     Foreign    (Incremental)          Plot Holders2         (Incremental)3
1      128        101            -
2      286        190            31                     -                      53
3      552        440            43                    116                    101
4      972         775           49                     90                   101
5      579        462            75                    375                   101
6      262        209            99                    479                   444
7      375        299           103                     81                   444
8      357         285          134                    490                   779
9      357         285          152                    378                   779
10      357         285          171                    378                  1098
11       -           -           189                    378                  1098
12       _           _            208                   378                  1407
13-50      _                        208                    -                   1407
1/  Identifiable taxes and import tariffs are estimated to be about 20% of total cost
(based on Mombasa Water Project).
2/  Part of cost of trunk and reticulation sewers which are recovered.
3/  Revenue is based mn projected water sold to custamers connected to the sewerage
system, limited by the treatment capacity.  Rate used in the calculations is                               H
KShs 0.77/m3.
C)



KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Nairobi Sewerage Program
Costs and Benefits - KEOOO's
(January 1974 prices)
(First Stage Only)
Year                Costs                                         Benefits
Capitall           0. & M.          Costs Recovered from   Sewerage Revenue
Local     Foreign    (Incremental)          Plot Holders2        (Incremental)3
1       128       101                       -                                -
2       286       190             31                  -                    53
3       552       440             43                 116                  101
4       972       775             49                  90                  101
5       579       462             75                 375                  101
6       262       209             99                 479                  444
7        18        14            103                  81                  444
8        -          -            134                 490                  779
9 toS5     -          -            134                  -                    779
1/  Identifiable taxes and import tariffs are estimated to be about 20% of total cost
(based on Mombasa Water Project).
2/ Part of cost of trunk and reticulation sewers which are recovered.
3/ Revenue is basedan Xqrected water sold to customers connected to the sewerage
system, limited by the treatment capacity. Rate used in the calculations is
KShs 0.77/i3.                                                                                              '
a> a,



ANNEX 6
Page 29
Table 12
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Off-Site Sewerage Works Included In Site and Service Project
Capital Expenditure Schedule (K1OOO's)
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    Total
Temporary waste stabilization pond          12      -        -       -       -         12
Service trunk sewers from site to
main trunk sewer                          41.     12     114       -       -        167
Main trunk sewer to Site D
(approximately 14.5 km)                   -      147     742      385      42     1316
Sewage treatanent works at
Site D (30,000 m3/day)                     -      53     321      138      15       527
Land                                        71      -        -       -        -        71
Consulting services                         66      73       50      32        4      225
Sub-total                             190      285    1227      555      61      2318
Provision for physical
contingencies                              8      31      177      77        9      302
Total cost of work
(at January 1975 prices)              198      316    1404      632      70      2620
Provision for price
increases                                 15      68      512     340       48      983
Total cost of work
(at escalated prices)                 213      384    1916      972     118      3603



ANNEX 7
Page 1
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
Community Facilities
Primary Schools
1.        The project includes funding for 6 schools, on the assumption
that the project area should be serviced to the same extent as the rest of
the city, i.e., a 75% enrollment ratio. The primary schools will run by
City Council's Education Department and provide seven years of basic edu-
cation starting at the age of six years; each three-stream school can
accommodate between 850 and 945 students. Free primary education for the
first four years was begun in 1974, and the primary schools are heavily
subsidized; each school has estimated annual operating expenses of KL31,200.
The latter figure is indicative; NCC will be encouraged to keep these costs
as low as possible.
Secondary Schools
2.        It is government policy not to provide any more secondary schools
in Nairobi until the imbalance between the greater number of places in the
capital compared to the rest of the country has been reduced. Therefore, no
provision has been made in the project for the construction of secondary
schools. However, provision has been made for space in the layouts.
Health Centers
3.        The project includes funds for two health centers, one of which
will include a maternity wing. The existing standard for health centers in
Nairobi is one for every 20,000 inhabitants, but shortage of staff in NCC
Public Health Department allows for a provision of only one for 30,000 resi-
dents in Dandora. At health centers, first-aid and medicines will be given
after examination by a medical assistant, nurse or doctor, more serious cases
will be referred to hospital care or examinations. Mothers will attend
ante-natal clinics, post-natal examinations, and infant.and toddlers' clinics
at the center. The annual cost of running a health center, where services
are free, is approximately KL4O,OOO. There are currently seven maternity
wings attached to health centers in Nairobi; Dandora is an appropriate loca-
tion for an eight facility, which would serve residents from the surrounding
area as well as the project. Maternity wings usually have 20 beds; deliveries
are supervised by a registered midwife and Medical Officer. Running costs
are roughly Kt8,000 a year.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Multipurpose Community Centers
4.        Two multipurpose community centers including day-care facilities
will be constructed in the project area which is somewhat lower than the
prevailing facilities/population ratio, but is appropriate since the anti-
cipated density of the settlement will enable all residents to walk to the
centers easily. The centers will be placed where people can meet to make
decisions about local affairs, participate in organized entertainment and
recreation, and receive training and support for the development of local
crafts and small industries; they will also serve as a base for community
development workers. The design of the centers will be simple and flexible
so that they can be adopted to evolving uses. One center will be operated
by the City Council's Social Services and Housing Department at an estimated
annual cost of K11,000. The other will be run by the National Christian
Council of Kenya, which has had extensive experience in low-income urban-
neighborhoods in Nairobi and elsewhere in Kenya. The centers will also make
space available to organizations such as the Maendeleo ya Wanawake (a crafts
association for women) and the Red Cross so they can pursue their usual pro-
grams in Dandora.
5.        The day-care facilities with 100 places each have been included in
the multipurpose community centers. These will be run by the City Council's
Public Health Department and cater to children between 2 1/2 and 6 years.
Given the current fee structure, it costs the City Council approximately
KL6,000 a year to operate such a facility. It is assumed that Dandora resi-
dents will also organize additional facilities on self-help basis, and space
for 40 such centers has been reserved in the site layout.
Sports Complex
6.        ProvisiorL has been made for one sports complex in the spine.  There
will be one small office and a number of playing fields and hard courts.
Space will be reserved for the possible future development of other sports
facilities. The complex will be used by the primary and secondary schools,
and will be run by the Council's City Education Department at an approximate
annual cost of K19,000.
Markets
7.        Space and funds for the construction of 402 market stalls of three
different sizes (10, 15 and 20 m2) are included in the project, providing
small-scale commercial facilities comparable to those elsewhere in the city.
The markets will be the responsibility of NCC's Social Services and Housing
Department.  Stalls will be let on a commercial basis, and the markets should
be self-financing or realize a small profit.



BENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Community Facilities: Standards and Operational Responsibilities and Costs
Number of Faci-          A                     Annual Operating Costs
Facility               Standards              lities Provided           Agency                   ua    e i       o
in Project           Rsosbe(i 
Primary Schools     1 3-stream school per
7,500 people;  estimated                       NCC City Education        31,200  x 6    -      187,200
population 1978/1979            6              Department
approximately 45,000
HealthCenter   1 per 30,000 people, aNCPulcHat
Health Center       slight reduction of              1             NeC Publment He40,000                      *      40,000
usual standards
Health Center       The maternity wing in
with maternity      Dandora will be the 8th          1              NCC Public Health a
wing.                in Nairobi.
Multipurpose                                                        NCC Social Services
Community Centers   1 per 30,000 people              2             and Housing Department;  11 ,000 x 2       -      22,000
National Christian
Council of Kenya
With Day-Care                                                       -m Pt-e Health             60oo0  I 2 .%
Facilities                                                          Depata.t
Sports Complex       1 for project                   1              NCC City Education         9,000                   9,000
Department
Markets              9 m2 per 100              222 10 m2 stalls                               Self-
people                     84 15 .2 stalls    11CC Social                financing
96 20 m2 stalls
Total Annual
Operating
Costs               310,200



ANNEX S
Page 1
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Lot Allocation and Building Materials Loans
A. Lot Allocation Procedures
1.        The Project Department will be responsible for allocating lots.
Students from the University of Nairobi may assist during their long vacation
to interview applicants and help them fill in the application forms. The stu-
dents will undergo a brief orientation to familiarize them with the scheme,
the application procedure, and techniques for soliciting information from
the applicants.
2.        The application forms will solicit information about the following
characteristics of applicants:
(a) Income: Applicants monthly incomes must be less than KSh 650.
The applicants will be required to provide some proof of income.
For wage employees, a letter from their employer indicating the
nature of the work, the monthly wage, and the length of employ-
ment will be required. For self-employed applicants, tax or
business records would be sufficient. If these are unavailable,
a letter from a social worker, local administrative officer, or
minister indicating the type of work the applicant does and his
approximate monthly income would be acceptable;
(b) Length of Residence in Nairobi: Only applicants who have been
residing in Nairobi for at least two years will be eligible for
lots;
(c) Resident Family: Only household heads whose families are living
with them in Nairobi will be eligible.
(d) Other Property: Applicants may not own other residential property
in Nairobi.
3.        The application form may also request information about other socio-
economic characteristics of the applicants. This information will not be used
for the allocation process but will be stored for use in the evaluation of
the scheme. Applicants will agree in writing to fulfill the requirements of
the scheme if allocated a lot, especially that of living on the lot. The
information collected from the application forms will be punched onto computer
cards along with an identification number for each applicant. The actual
selection of allottees will be done in two phases by the computer through a



ANNEX 8
Page 2
random number program. The computer will also select waiting lists for the
two types of lots; the lists will determine who will be allocated lots not
taken up by the original allottees, lots taken over by the Department should
the original allottees fail to fulfill their obligations, and lots sold to
the Department by people who wish to move out of the project and give back
their lots to the Department with full compensation for improvements.
4.        In order to ensure public confidence in the allottee selection
procedures and to insulate them from political pressures, each step in the
process will be given as much publicity as possible. A list of certified
applicants and their application numbers will be posted prior to the final
selection and the names and numbers of the allottees and the people on the
waiting list will be made public as soon as the selection process is completed..
5.        Allottees will be required to pay a deposit of KSh550 including
KSh150 for water and sewerage connection fees, between the announcement of
allocations and the date they occupy their lots. The deposit will be counted
as a credit against the allottee's outstanding loan principal after the
allottee has completed his unit. The payment of a deposit will mean a
tangible commitment by the allottee and will provide minimal security against
which the initial materials loan payment can be made.
B. Materials Loans Fund
6.        The Project Department, through its Financial Division, will operate
the materials loans scheme. Materials loans would be made in cash but each
loan tranche would not exceed the security provided by the allottee's deposit
against the mortgage (KSh400) plus the value of the materials in that portion
of the house already constructed. Therefore, the initial materials loan
payment cannot exceed the value of the deposit paid by the allottee. Each
further installment cannot be greater than the sum of the deposit and the
estimated value of the materials in the house, as certified by the technical
staff. The technical supervisors will keep records of construction on each
lot, and standard values for different phases of construction with different
kinds of materials will be calculated. These values will be entered in the
computerized accounting system so that the amount of materials loans for
which an allottee is eligible can be determined easily at any time.
7.        The maximum materials loan for Option A allottee will be KSh4,800,
sufficient to build two rooms, and KSh2,400 for Option B allottees. Because
of the flexibility of the computerized accounting system allottees will be
allowed to borrow any amount of money up to the maximum. A typical schedule
for the disbursement of materials loans for Option B would be as follows:



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Value of Deposit Plus
Time Period              Amount of Loan           Materials in House
(KSh)                        (KSh)
to                                                     400 (deposit)
t1                       400                           400
t2                        -                            800
t3                       800                           800
t                         -                          1,600
4 
t5                     1,600                         1,600
Option A households would draw their materials as outlined above up to
a maximum of KSh 4,800.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Cost Recovery and Pricing
1.        The 1974-1978 Development Plan states that all housing built
by municipal authorities should be fully self-financing, but no guidance
is given as to the definition of "self-financing", the means of cost
recovery or the degree to which cross-subsidization should be utilized.
At present there is no consistent policy on these questions within Govern-
ment or the Nairobi City Council. Theoretically. of course, the most
appealing solution would be to pass on housing at market prices and rentals.
Any surplus which accrues may then be used to make corss-subsidies to
individuals or to finance additional building. This principle has been
introduced into the Droject by the proposed sale of 300 (5%) two-room units
and 30 demonstration houses by auction with the surplus to be used to cross-
subsidize Option A lot costs (see Table 2).  Otherwise the policy has been
adopted of pricing the majority of serviced lots on the basis of actual
costs rather than what the market will bear in order to reach low-income
households.
Allocation of Costs
2.        Since no standardized policy for housing charges exists within
the NCC, a new system has been designed for the project. The intention is
to provide a rational basis for allocation and recoverv of costs which could
be applied across all NCC's housing. The proposed formula attempts to ensure
that all capital and recurrent costs specifically generated by the provision
of shelter and services which are not recovered through existing user fees
or rate structures will be recovered throuah direct payments by reciDients
of these items. Recipients include those departments of the city or govern-
ment for whom plots for community facilities have been reserved. Thus, site
preparation and servicing costs should be shared proportionatelv between NCC
and households, as shown in the following table:



LiNJEX 9
KENYA                      7~~~~~~~~~~a';e 2-
KEiZQA                              Table 1
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Allocation of Costs
TOTAL COSTS
CATEGORY                                                  (Kb)
2                   3
Chargeable
to NCC
Total     User Fees   Community /1   Recovered
Cost      and Rates   Facilities-   From Lots
1.  SITE PREPARATION                         118.45o       1,150        9,660        107.640
a.  Clearing and Grading                  37,950        --          7,590         30,360
b.  Topo. and Soil Surveys                10,350        --          2,070          8,280
c. Lot Demarcation                        69,000        --           --           69,000
d.  Fencing of Power Lines                 1,150       1,150         --             --
2.  ON-SITE INFRASTRUCTURE                 1,071,340     474,225       65,595        531,520
a.  Primary Roads/Drainage               397,095     277,965      23,830          95,300
b.  Seccndary Roads/Drainage             264,730        --           --          264,730
c.  Sewerage Reticulation                158,355        --         31,670        126,685
d.  Water Reticulation                   150,650     150,650         --             --
e.  Street Lighting                       65,780      19,735        9,210         36,835
f.  Landscaping                           11,500      11,500         --             --
g.  Refuse Collection                     23,230      14,375          885          7,970
3. COMNUNITY FACILITIES                      392,435     392,435         --             __
4. CORE UNITS                              1.528,200        --           --        1.528,200
a.  Wet Cores                            704,340        --           --          704,340
b.  One-Room Units                       622,800        --           --          622,800
c.  Two-Room Units                       179,100        --           --          179,100
d.  Demonstration Units                   21,960        --           --           21,960 /2
5. MATERIALS LOANS FUND                    1,144,800          ----                 1,144,800
6. TRUNK INFRASTRUCTURE                    2,163,150   2.163,150         --             --
7.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE /3                                  8 i30.    45,865         56,255
a.  Project Unit                         348,000     348,000 /4      --             --
b.  Design and Engineering Fees          3?5,950     ?7313o0       45,865         56,255
c. Housing Operations Study              43,000       43,o00                        --
8. PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES (5-15%)            587.010     383,390       30,690        172,930
oub-Total                  7,772,335  ).J,079,180     151,810      3,541,345
TOTAL COSTS /5             7,772,335            1,23n,9Qr          3,541,345
/1 Estimated at 20% of net land area.
7T To be resold at market prices.
/3  Centra  Goverrment wi1l bear the costs of monitoring (KM36,000) and future
project preparation (K.140,000).
/4  To be apportioned among beneficiaries at the completion of the NCC Housing
Operations Study
/5  Excluding price contingencies.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
3.        Costs Recovered through User Fees and Rates:  Utility tariffs, fees
and property rates of NCC typically cover the costs of trunk infrastructure,
community facilities, and technical assistance, and should cover certain
types of on-site infrastructure, such as the cost of tarmacing primary roads
used as bus routes (representing 70% of their cost), street lighting along
those roads (30% based on linear mile of roadway), fencing of power lines,
landscaping and additions to the city's fleet of refuse collection vehicles.
All water reticulation is recovered by NCC through user fees. In addition,
any on-site sewerage lines exceeding 9" in diameter would be paid for by
Council.
4.        Community Facilities:  While costs attributable to community facili-
ties will also be recovered through user fees and general revenues, such
facilities constitute a class of "plot holder" (i.e. they occupy about 20%
of total serviced area), and therefore share in certain basic costs which
would otherwise be recovered only through lot sales prices. Thus for overall
site clearing, grading and surveys, primary roads, sewerage reticulation,
street and security lighting, and related design and engineering fees, these
facilities will be allocated approximately 20% of total costs.
5.        Costs Recovered from Lots:  Capital costs to be recovered from
allottees through monthly mortgage payments include site clearing, grading,
surveys, and lot demarcation, about 25% of the costs of primary roads and
all of secondary roads (since facilities are located within a central spine)
including related street lighting, sewerage, refuse hard-standings, related
design and engineering. Total costs of core units and materials loans will
be recovered from participants. For reasons discussed in para. 5.03 of the
main report, administrative costs will be recovered o.ly when a clear rationale
for apportioning such overheads has been worked out by the NCC Housing Opera-
tions Study.
Lot Development Costs
6.        Site preparation and infrastructure costs attributable to plot-
holders will be allocated on a square meter basis. Core unit costs are
charged according to the level of amenity provided.
7.        There are seven alternative cost options, based on three stages
of lot development:  Option A consists only of th2 serviced lt and built
wet-core, available in three sizes (100 m , 120 m , and 140 m ) and materials
loans for two rooms. Option B, available in the same three sizes. will in-
clude one built room and materials loans for a second. The seventh option
will be 300 two-room units plus wet-core.
8.        Lot development costs (Table 2) include 15% physical contingencies
on site preparation, on-site infrastructure and 5% on core units. None are
included for building materials loans since amounts have been clearly specified.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
Price contingencies have been omitted in order to facilitate comparision of
monthly charges and current income on a 1975 basis. Interest during construc-
tion has been based on the average amount outstanding during the 12-month
construction period (half of the total capital cost per lot) at 7.5% repre-
senting the average cost of NCC's borrowing for the project.
Table 2: Lot Development Costs (Kb)
OPTION A (3,900 Lots)          OPTION B (1,800 Lots)              ITION C (300 Lot;
Built Wet Core and             Built Wet Core tc 1 Room           Built Wet Core a
'lste,-iAl Lonn              pl1s tMmterials Loan                   2 Rooms
Total         100 m2  120 D2      140 m2       1 cir2   120 m2    140 m2               160 m2
Recovered        Lot      Lot        Lot          Lot       Lot       Lot                 Lot
Elenrnt                                From Lots      (1,232)   (1,436)   (1,232)        (569)    (662)     (569)               (300)
1. SITE PREPARATICN                          107,640        16.7       17.9      18.9         16.7      17.9      18.9                1S.9
Surveys                                    8,280         1.1       1.4       1.6          1.1       1.4        1.6                 1.8
Demarcatio.                               69,000        11.5      11.5       11.5         11.5      11.5      11.5                11.5
Cleartrig and Grading                     30,360         4.1       5.0       5.8          4.1       5.0       5.8                  6.6
2. GN-aSITZ I9NASTRUCTURE                     531.520       72.6       87.1    101.5          72.6      87.1     101.5               1t6.1
Roads ani Surface Drainage                360,030       49.2      59.0       68.8        49.2       59.0      68.8                78.7
Sewerage R ticulation                    126,665        17.3      20.8      24.2          17.3     2C.8       24.2                27.7
Street Lighting                           36,835         5.0       6.0       7.0           5.0      6.o       7.0                  8.0
Refuse Herdstandings                        7,970        1 .1       1.3       1.5          1.1       1.3       1.5                 1.7
3. CORE E13ITS                             1,52a.200       182.0    182.0    182.0          31,6.o    346.0    346.0                 597.0
Built Wet Core (W.C. and Bath)           704,340       182.0    182.0    182.0                      -          -
One-R om Unit                            622,600         -         -         -          346.o    346.o    346.0
Tw-f~oam 'Jnit                           179,100         -         -         -            -         -          -                 597.0
Demonstration 'n'its                      21,960L        -         -         -             -         -         _                   -
14. DEi3Iv AiD NG1i.,,E7I:G F2- ,2             56.255        7.6       9.2       10.8          7.6      S22       10.8                12.3
5. PHYSICAL CONTI'GENCIES                    172.930        22.3      24.9      27.5          30.5     33.1       3                   50.9
15% cn Itens 1 and 2                      96,520        13.2      15.8      18.4         13.2      15.8      18.4                 21.1
5% on Item 3                             76,410         9.1       9.1       9.1         17.3      17.3       17.3                29.8
6. INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION /3            89.100        11.3      12.0      12.8          17.7      18.5     19.2                 29.8
Sub-Total
Lot Preparation & Servicing   2,485,645      312.5    333.1      353.5        491.1    511.8    532.1                  826.0
7. CROSS-SUBSIDY                                          -55.1    -55.1          -            -        -          -                +388.0
Adjusted Lot Cost                            257.4    278.0    353.5           491.1    511.8    532.1               1,214.0
S. MATAAIALS LOANiS (Optional)              1 ,1I44,6O
Optics A                                 928,800        240.0    240.0    21.0.0           -                   - 
Option B                                 216,000         -         -         -          120.0    120.0    120.0
TOTAL                        3.630.15        497.4    518.0    593.5          611.1    631.8    652.1                1,214.0
_   _   _ _     ~        ~    _                                                        - .a
/1  To be sold at market prices.
/2  Estimated at 10% . Items 1 and 2 for 5,300 lots.
L.)  Estimated at 7.5%  .f the vearage Amount outstanding over a 12-aemth cimtructiom period.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
Cross-Subsidization
9.        Option C lots and demonstration units will be sold at market
prices and the surplus will be applied toward reducing the costs of Option Al
and A2, representing about half of the total number of lots developed under
the project.
Monthly Charges
10.       The monthly charges to households summarized in Table 3 are based
on January 1975 figures, exclusive of price contingencies. They reflect the
following terms to households:
11.       Rate of Interest:  The project's rate of interest of 8.5% is slight-
ly below the current mortgage company lending rates presently prevailing in
Kenya of about 9% but above that of NCC's tenant-purchase schemes at 7.5%.
The project's rate represents a definite movement toward higher interest rates
yet attempts to minimize the disparities between NCC terms for housing bene-
ficiaries.
12.       Downpayment/Maturity:  A downpayment of KSh400 against lot develop-
ment costs will be required of all participants. Two maturities are proposed
of 20 and 30 years although allottees will be entitled to prepay loans if
they wish. The longer repayment period will be applicable to Option A and
the shorter to Option B, enabling the project to reach lower income groups
than would otherwise be possible. The rationale underlying this adjustment
is that the allottee under Option A must complete considerable building to
reach to the same level of development as his counterpart under Option B.
His borrowing requirements are therefore likely to exceed those of B. The
longer amortization period therefore enables the participant under A to com-
plete his home without undue sacrifice of other necessities.
13.       Risk Reserve:  A nominal provision for bad debts will cover
any marginal losses in resales and financial and administrative costs of
delinquencies and foreclosures. The appropriate provision for bad debts
will be determined by the NCC Housing Operations Studies and a continuous
review of this problem should result in periodic adjustments of perceived
risks of each of the NCC's housing operations. A charge of 5% has been
included under the terms of this project.
14.       Building Materials Loans:  Loans of about Kb 240 for Option A and
KE 120 for Option B will be available to participants on the same terms as
their mortgage. A grace period of 5 years on building materials loans will
be extended to allottees of Option A in order to encourage faster consoli-
dation. The grace period will not apply, however, to occupants of Option B
since they will have one-room core units from the very beginning and would
be borrowing only one room's worth of building materials. The interest
foregone during the grace period would be capitalized and the full amount
repaid over 25 instead of 30 years. Monthly payments during the first five
years and thereafter will therefore be as follows:



ANNEX 9
Page 6
Monthly Charges 1/
(K Shillings)
Item                    0                             (100 m2) (120 m2) (Ih0 m2)
Total number of lots          1,225    1,420       1,225       570       660       570
Lot preparation, servicing
and core units                    37       40         52         83       87        90
Risk reserve (5%)                  2        2          3          4        4         5
Land rent  2/                      4        4          5          4        4         5
Sub-total -
Lot mortgage              43        46        60         91        95      100
Rates  2/                          6        7          8          6        7         8
Utilities  4/                     2h       24         24         24       24        24
Sub-total -
Mortgage plus
utilities                 73        77         92       121       126       132
Building materials loans         0-54     o-54       0-54       0-21     0-21      0-21
Total Range:
First five years  5,              73        77        92      121-142  127-147  132-153
Thereafter                    73-127   77-131    92-146    121-142  127-147  132-153
1/  Including physical contingencies of 15% on infrastructure and 5% on buildings,
design and engineering fees of 10% and interest during construction. Down-
pWcInts ^KSNI400 n have been dedicted frnm +he principal of all lots, and a
further KE55 in crosssubsidies from the costs of about half the lots--all in
Option A.
2/  Based on 32 of unimproved site value.
3/ Based on a;4.5% of unimproved site value.
4/ Based on tariffs effective January 1, 1975; utilities payments for project
participants would be expected to rise in accordance with the overall tariff
structure.
i During first five years Option A lot holders enjoy a grace period for the
material loan.



ANNEX 9
Page 7
15.       Based on the above charges and assuming expenditure for shelter
and services of roughly 25%, a monthly income of about KSh28O or KE14 would
be required for the cheapest lot in Option A. A target income grouD of
KSh28O to KSh50 has therefore been set for this option and a target of
KSh45O - KSh65O for Option B. The monthly payments for Option A will
experience a one-time jump after the five year material loan grace period.
However, by that time the affected households should have a somewhat higher
income and will have consolidated enough to allow at least one room for sub-
letting. Extensive subletting now takes place in Nairobi's low-income housing
areas with room rentals averaging between KSh100 - KSh150.
16.       At 1974 estimated income levels, Option A lots constituting two-
thirds of the project would be affordable by households as low as the 20th
percentile in the income distribution curve. Option B lots constituting the
remaining third of the project would be affordable to households in the
second quartile in the income scale with most of the lots going to households
between the 30th and 40th percentile.
Project Cash Flow
17.       The expected flow of funds generated by the residential component 1/
(Annex 9) shows a cumulative surplus ranging from KE25,000 (US$70,000) to
KL380,000 (US$1,064,000) during the first ten years of the project. The
sale price of Option C units, estimated at Kh1,20O is critical to the reali-
zation of this surplus. However, even if the profit on these units was
reduced to half that expected, the cumulative account would experience
only a small deficit in 1982 which would be eliminated by 1984.
18.       The non-revenue producing project items (Annex 9, Table 4) com-
prising community facilities, technical assistance and maintenance of infra-
structure will increase the projected deficit on NCC's general fund by about
Kh51,000 in 1976 rising to KE382,000 by 1980 (Annex 10, Tables 3 and 4).
The precarious state of NCC's general revenue fund and the steps being under-
taken by Government to deal with this situation have been discussed in
paras 2.06 and a Government Working Party on Municipal Finances has recently
completed its report. The Government is further requesting the assistance
of the IMF in undertaking a more technical analysis of the recommendations
formulated by the Working Party. Meanwhile the City Council and the Govern-
ment are discussing specific measures to ensure NCC financial viability
until the Working Party/IMF recommendations are implemented. The level at
which Government should undertake to maintain NCC finances and the specific
measures that it should emplov in doing so were be discussed and agreed with
1t   Excludes trunk infrastructure, community facilities and technical assist-
ance. The costs of water and sewerage will be carried by NCC's Water and
Sewerage Department whose charges are intended to yield a certain rate of
return on assets (see Annex 6). The roads, community facilities and
technical assistance are covered by property rates and Government sub-
ventions.



ANNEX 9
Page 8
both NCC and Government at negotiations. It was also be agreed at that
time that annual NCC accounts audited by an auditor acceptable to the Bank
will be submitted to IBRD within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year for
ten years after project completion.



KENYA                                                    AN1!EX 9
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AID SERVICE PROJECT                                  Table 3
Cash Flow
1UCC Residential Component 1/
1975      1976      1977       1978      1979       1980      1981       1982       1M93      1988
1. Sources of Funds
IDA/IBIRD Loan            136,970   480,930   680,290   413,440   236,120
GOK                       112,060   393,495   556,600   338,260   193,180
Paymaents by Households:
Dd64nnayment                       18,900               94,500
:lortgage and Land
Rent  2/                         17,625    35,250   123,380   211,505   211;505   211,505   211,505   211,505   211,505
Materials Loans                     1,890     3,780    13,230    22,680    22,680    43,580    43,580   148,070   148,070
Sale of Units                        66,770              333,850
TOTAL         249,030   979,610 1,275,920 1,316,660   663,485   234,185   255,085   255,085   359,575   359,575
2.  Uses of Funds
Design & En,iaeering-      00,630     5,625
Site U're)aration
and ServicinC            70,000   2'0,1800   276,720   120,490
Core Units                120,400   1X65,300   673,900   337,010
"aterials Loans                     1183,100   2t06,200   28i56,200   1,29,300
Land Rent                             1,530      3,06c   10,730    18,395   1,395    1,,395    10,395    18,395    18,395
Amortization of Debt:
IDA/12a.D  L                       11w640    52,520   110,350   14549370   199,370   199,370   199,370   199s370
GOKS     Y                          8,510    38,400    80,680   106,370   121,050   121,050   121,050   121)050   I21,050
TOTA'.          2t'9,030  896,105 1,330,875   953,460   699,555   338,815   338,815   338,815   338,815   338,815
Annual Surplus/Deficit       -       83,505   -54,955   363,200   -36,o70  -104,630   -83,730   -83,730    20,760    20,760
Cumulative Surplus/                   83,505    28,550   391,750   355,680   251,050   167,320    83,590   104,350   125,110
Deficit
1/  The cash flow deals with only thalt portion of total project costs to be recovered from lot holders (see Annex 9, Table 1).
Sources and uses include-physical contingencies but not price escalation.
v  Assumina 5o/ default; terms of 8.5%, 20 and 30 years for Option B and A respectively.
A.5% over 25 years including a 4 year grace period.
/ 6.5% over 25 years; no grace period.



ANNEX 9
Pagve 1 0
KENYA                                  Table 4
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Cash Flow i
ProJect Components Affecting General Fund
(KE)
1975        1976         1977       1978        1979       1980
SOURCES OF FUNDS
IDA/IBRD/GOK Loans           273,120    547,740       709,540   377,420      171,850
GOK Grants 2/                            17,000        52,300    85,200      121,680    121,680
Lot Occupants Property
Rates 3/                                 2,100         4,200    14,700       25,200      25,200
TOTAL SOURCES     273,120    566,840       766,040   477,320       318,730    146,880
f-    __  -
USES OF FUNDS
Construction:
Site preparation               2,570     10,150         2,420
On-site infrastructure        47,650    172,730       250,180   125,080
Community facilities                     85,930       178,000   178,000      171,850
Access roads                             56,030        56,040
Technical assistance         222,900    222,900       222,900    74,340
Amortization of Debt
IDA/IBRD/GOK i/                          24,520        73,680   137,370      171,250    186,670
Recurrent Expenditures:
Community facilities                     43,400       124,000   217,140      310,200    310,200
Maintenance on roads and
on-site infrastructure 5/                2,350        12,140    23,800       28,870      28,870
TOTAL USES        273,120    618,010       919,360   755,730      682,170    525,740
ANNUAL SURPLUS/DEFICIT           --        -51,170     -153,320  -278,410    -363,440   -378,860
CUMULATIVE SURPLUS/DIFICIT       --       -51,170      -204,490  -482,900    -846,340  -1,225,200
/ Sources and uses include physical and price contingencies.
i/ Covering teachers' salaries estimated at 65% of recurrent educational expenditures.
3/ Approximately Sh7 per household per month.
/ Average terms of IDA/IBRD/GOK loans estimated at 7.6% over 25 years, no grace.
5/ 2% of value of both residential and NCC infrastructure excluding water and sewerage.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Municipal Finances
A. General
1.        Until 1968 local authorities accounted for 20% of public sector
expenditures. Although revenues raised by local authorities have never
entirely covered these expenditures, they were also responsible for a very
substantial portion of the total Kenya tax effort. At Independence, about
21% of total revenues accrued to local authorities; this figure declined
to about 18% in 1968 (when the local authorities were reorganized, see below)
and to about 12% by 1973.
2.        Government policy with respect to local government financing is
not well defined. At Independence an essentially British system and division
of responsibility between the center and the local authorities was inherited
and continued. An important innovation, however, was that local authorities
were given an independent power of income taxation through an instrument
known as the Graduated Personal Tax (GPT). This tax provided a sound fiscal
base and permitted, the urban areas at least, to carry out their considerable
responsibilities without subvention from central government resources. There
are two categories of local authorities: municipal or urban councils (11)
and county or rural councils (38). The County Councils were predominantly
responsible for the deterioration in overall local government finances up
to 1968. Between 1966 and 1968 their recurrent expenditures increased
dramatically and recurrent deficits doubled in these two years. In 1968,
about 50% of these deficits were financed through overdrafts and drawing
down of reserves, and the remainder through government grants. 1/
3.        Government decided in 1968 to require the Municipal Councils to
remit to the rural areas any Graduated Personal Tax (GPT) collected in respect
of incomes earned by people domiciled in the rural areas. This amounted to
a transfer of about 30% of collections in 1968 rising to about 50% in 1973.
The provision was both inadequate to restore budgetary equilibrium to the
County Councils and placed a significantly increased burden on the munici-
palities. Therefore beginning in 1970 the Government decided to take over
the major expenditure and revenue functions of the County Councils:
education, health, and road maintenance, accounting for about 80% of their
1/   If these were to be fully met from the Central Government about 8% of
Government revenue would have been absorbed. A full account of the
development of Local Government Finances in Kenya since Independence is
given in the Basic Economic Report on Kenya--Vol. 2, IBRD Report No.
201KE.



ANNEX 1 0
Page 2
total expenditure became Government's responsibility. At the same time their
rights to levv GPT, charge school fees and to receive road maintenance grants
were rescinded. The Government continued to demand the GPT transfer from
municipalities until 1973.
B. Situation of Municipal Councils
4.        The Municipal Councils, unlike County Councils, are operating in
the richest parts of the economy and although they have never relied to any
great extent on government grants they have also never been able to save
very much: almost all their capital expenditures are financed bv borrowing.
Of course, the transfer of some GPT since 1968 and the government grants-
in-aid to the County Councils have imnlied some measure of regional redis-
tribution of revenue but in view of the very favorable rural-urban terms of
trade to the municipalities, there is some justification in the Government's
apparent dissatisfaction with the revenue efforts of the municipalities.
5.        On the other hand, the municipalities have wide ranging and import-
ant expenditures functions, which have remained unchanged since Independence.
Their responsibilities and powers are laid down by the Local Government
Regulations (1963), as amended from time to time, and include: housing,
primary education, health centers, urban road maintenance and construction,
water and sewerage, markets, fire services, public libraries, and welfare
services and sundry other public works. At present, the municipalities have
only a very limited command over the resources required to finance these very
important public services. Until 1973, Municipal Councils could levey property
taxes, Graduated Personal Tax, various license fees, fees for education and
user fees on water and sewerage, parking fees and other sundry income. GPT
and property taxes represented over 50% of all current revenue. User charges
and fees account for the other half of current income and loans account for
all development expenditure. Thus, although the Municipal Councils have been
unsuccessful in generating any internal surplus they have until recently been
quite successful at operating without substantial deficits, and this remained
more or less true even while they were required to make substantial contri-
butions to rural areas through the OPT transfer.
6.        It is thus hard to find a convincing rationalq for the present
government policies towards Municipal Councils which is exemplified by the
abolition of GPT in 1973 and the subsequent mutilation of local finances.
GPT was a type of local income tax, in fact a combination of a pool tax and
income tax, that was not progressive and beyond income of KW600 per month was
regressive. The administrative costs of the tax were high and evasion in
rural areas was high. Thus it is clear that GPT was not an ideal tax and
therefore its reform and strengthening would have been welcomed. In 1973,
however, as part of the fiscal reforms of the budget of that year, the GPT



ANNEX 10
Page 3
was abolished.  In its place Government introduced a general sales tax accruing
directly to Government but did not at the same time reduce either the current
or development expenditure functions of the municipalities, or specify any
alternative sources for local government revenues.
7.        Government policy implies that by removing :ndependent sources of
taxation. except rates, and by leaving functions unaltered the municipal
authorities will be forced into greater tax efforts and at the same time the
Central Government will itself benefit from the additional sales tax revenue.
To achieve this, Government has proposed that the Municipal Councils should
receive grants in lieu of GPT on a declining basis.
8.        Table 1 shows the main sources of municipal income since 1964.  The
effects of Government action on GPT revenues can be clearly seen. From 1968
to 1971, for example, municipalities had to transfer part of GPT to rural
areas which by 1971 accounted for 50% of GPT revenue. By 1973, GPT again
accounted for 25% of total incomes, including loans raised, and its abolition
therefore puts considerable strain on local finances. Property taxes have
been a declining proportion of total revenue, as have user fees, but these
two sources now represent the only ones which can be exploited in the short
term. Taken together, therefore, the municipal income sources are neither
flexible nor buoyant. Furthermore, the Councils have no automatic access to
loan funds or short term money. The elasticity of local government revenues
with respect to monetary GDP is another cause for concern. The IBRD basic
economic report found this to be extremely small: the elasticity of direct
taxes of municipal and county councils is .008 (Monetary GDP) and other
revenues about .009. Without GPT these figures may be expected to be even
lower.
9.        The current Development Plan (1974-1978) provides the best indica-
tion of Government's intentions towards local governments. The only element
of revenue sharing envisaged is the declining GPT grant. This is set at a
total of KE10 million for the next four years representing a net loss (com-
pared to what GPT revenue would have been) of about another KE10 million.
Although many services are designated in the Plan to be self-financing, no
revision in government approvals for increased pricing is indicated. This
is exacerbated by policy changes such as the abolition of school fees. The
capital program side of the Plan is perhaps even less encouraging. In cir-
cumstances where their most buoyant source of revenue has been abolished,
Municipal Councils are expected to generate from internal funds KE10 million
over the period, or about Kh2.5 million a year. This is a figure never
approached previously and is even larger than the planned figure for stock
issues (KO8 million).



ANNEX 10
Page 4
C. NCC Financial Condition
10.       The problems outlined above are most apparent in Nairobi. which is
by far the largest municipal authority and accounts for well over half of
total municipal revenues and expenditures. A detailed analysis of NCC's
financial condition supports the conclusion that by 1976 NCC will move into
overall deficit.
11.       General Fund Account.  The aggregate General Fund expenditures
together with the main sources of income are shown in Table 2. The proportion
of current costs met by user charges has fallen from 60% in 1961 to a current
level of about 32%; thus a greater amount has to be met from general revenues
such as property taxes. Graduated Personal Tax, introduced in 1964, was
abolished on December 31, 1973 and the Government currently makes a transi-
tional contributiorn in lieu of GPT.
12.       Graduated Personal Tax quickly developed into the major source of
revenue and continued to grow by about 10% a year. Property tax income, which
has grown by about 6.5% p.a. over t!a period to 1973, is based on unimproved
site values and has; not proved to be so buoyant. The implied tax rate on
property is present:ly far below world-wide averages and both the rate of
taxation and the value of the base will need to be increased in the longer
term. Differential rating operates only to the extent that it recognizes
urban and rural development.
13.       Table 3 shows a projected deficit for the General Fund at current
service levels. The table speaks for itself and the very precarious nature
of NCC's financial position does not need any emphasis. Without supplementary
government action, total reserves on the General Fund will have been exhausted
by early 1977. Accumulated annual deficits will then require deficit financing
if services are to be maintained and remedial action will require either in-
creases in user charges, which might be regressive, or interim support from
Central Government until long-term viability can be established.
14.       The Capital Program.  Nairobi City Council is required by legisla-
tion governing local government procedures to prepare capital budgets. Until
1972, this involved compilation of five-year programs which, being demand
oriented compared relative priorities during the plan period. A capital bud-
get provides a two-fold purpose: first it is a policy statement concerning
future development, and second it is a device for budgetary control especially
when exemplified in multi-year budgets which superimpose the effect of capital
development on current needs and resources.
15.       It has not been the practice in Nairobi to prepare multi-year revenue
budgets and indeed the competence of capital budgeting may be judged by the
fact that actual expenditure consistently fell well short of estimates. Be-
cause of central government anxieties over the availability of loan finance
which could economically be raised, a moratorium was applied, in 1973, to



ANNEX 1 0
Page 5
capital schemes and in effect only work-in-progress was allowed to continue.
Capital budgets continue to be prepared by activity and are determined by the
expected availability of loan finance and budgets currently set out for each
scheme. Approval for exDenditure on each scheme depends on sanction by the
appropriate Government Department for raising loans. Since the abolition of
GPT, the financial structure of Nairobi City Council produces little scope for
capital finances other than by loan, although Nairobi is being encouraged in
the plan to provide Kh6 million from revenue contributions to capital outlay
by 1980.
16.       It is clear from the above sections that Local Government finances
in Kenya need a thorough review. It is equally clear that Nairobi City Coun-
cil's financial position will require remedial action both in the short and
long-term solutions. It is expected that the study will, inter alia, examine
the allocation of responsibilities between Central and Local Governments,
intergovernmental relations including revenue sharing, and the scope for new
sources of revenue that Local Governments might tap.



KEIN LA
APP'JTSAL OF A SITPE A:D SE0tICE PRO, r,CT
Table 1. Source of Income of Municipal Councils 1967-1973 1/
Thousand of Kenya Pounds
1967     1968      1969      1970      1971     1972      1973"
Graduated Personal Tax                                     2,688    1,915    2,046    2,297    4,723    4,104    4,286
Indirect Taxes (Licences, Cesses and Rates)                2,263    2,464    3,191    3,298    3,850          377    4,116
Income from Property (Buildings and Land Rents)            1,139    1,272    1,390    1,484    1,780    1,865    2,068
Interest on Investments                                      350       167      429       225       226       104       324
Sale of Goods and Services:
School fees                                                )453      526      497       517       525       616       711
Sale of water                                            1,060    1,065    1,12)4    1,303    2,235    1,621        1,986
Sale of beer                                               350       474      391       363       354       348       216
Markets and slaughter charges                               58        72       46        50       131        78        90
Sewerage and refuse removal charges                        715       869      460       995       569    1,198    1,170
Other sales                                                598       622      620       740       677       597       661
211      286       255       116       186        40        95
Government Grants                                            211       286       255      116       186        40        95
Loans Raised                                               1,356    2,003    2,157    1,534    3,081    5,681    3,179
Miscellaneous (including court fines, sale of
capital assets, loan repayment, Government
grants and non Government grants)                          132        91      347       392       166       451       548
TOTAL               11,373      11,826      12,953    13,315   12,5j 8   20  480   19
1/ Nairobi accounts for rather over 50% of total municiDal finances.
** Provisional
SOURCE:  Statistical Abstracts and Economic Survey, 1974



KEI"YA                           Azr.JE  1 o
ARAIUSAL 7 .A SITE A&1D SERVICE PROJr.C            Table 2
General Fund Account - Analysis
1970      1971       1972      1973       197lh
Kh 000    KE 000    KE 000    Kh 000    KE 000
Actual    Actual    Actual    Revised  Estimates
Estimates
Gross Expenditures
General Administration                376        360        639       473        577
General Charges                         74       141         95       109        165
Public Health                       1,462      1,637      2,166     2,718      3,212
Education                            1,443     1,657      1,978     2,165      2,637
Public Works and aervices           1,340      1,027      1,090     1,381      1,322
Parks, Grounds and Sundry
Properties                          134        163        163       25B        250
Housing                                916       914      1,147     1,127      1,266
Social, Training and Recreational
Facilities                          322        335        463       537        590
6.067     6,234      7,741     8,768    10,019
Add:
Revenue Contributions to Capital
Outlay                              100        500        230       --          20
Training                                82       109        114       136        138
Provisional Sums                       100       --                   --         --
Contingencies                          --        100        --        --         --
Contributions to Capital Fund          --      1,210        --        --         --
Provision for Bad Debts                30         30        --        --         --
6,379     8,183        0       8,807     10,177
Less:
Service Charges
- central administration              164        195        201       188        200
- general charges                        8        11          7         7          7
- public health                        381       412        424       798        882
- education                            395      1423        452       498
- public works and services            732       175        180       285        287
- parks, grounds, and sundry
properties                          19        39         34       108        100
- housing                              871       898        927     1,096      1,525
- social, training and recreational
facilities                        162        160        162       224        261
2,732     2,313      2,387     3,207      3
General Income
- property tax                      2,125      2,539      2,530     2,560      3,242
- GPT                               1,570      3,627      2,572     3,210        --
- government grants                    --        --         --        --       2,700
- other                                119       126        155       180         80
6,546     8,605      7,644     9,154      9,284
General Fund
Annual Surplus                         167       422        --        250        --
Annual Deficit                         --        --         441       --         893 1/
1/ Without recent pooled housing rent increases the deficit in 1974 would amount to
K1l,370,000.
SOURCE:  NCC Abstract of Accounts and Estimates.



KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROTECT
Cash Flow - General Fund Services
Analysis and Projection (Without IBRD Project)
1970     1971      1972      1973     1974    1975    1976        1977      1978      1979     1980
KYm m    KE        RE m      Kr m        RL m    KE m    KEr      REm RmmL m          R    Ki m   RL KkL n
BALANCE BROUGHT FORWARD
Surplus                                          2.78      5.44      3.95      1.81     4.19    3.30    1.67         --        --        --        --
Deficit                                           --        --        --        --        --      --       --       0.95      4.52      9.1       14.36
SOURCES
Taxes        /1
- Property  -                                    2.13      2.54      2.53      2.56     3.24    3.45    3.67        3.91      4.16      4.43       4.72
- GPT                                            1.57      3.62      2.57      3.21       --      --       --        --        --        --         -
Government Revenue
- subvention grant                                --        --        --        --       2.70    2.28    1.62       0.98      0.32       --         --
Fees and Charges /2                               2.73     2.31      2.38      3.20      3.26    3.48    3.73       3.09      4.27      4.57       4.09
Interest                                         0.12      0.13      0.15      0.18     0.08    0.04       --        --        --        --         --
Adjustments in balances                           0.20     0.37       --       2.00       --       --      --        --        --        --         --
Investment profit                                0.19    (0.22)    0.45         --        --       --      --        --        --        --         --
Loan Income  )3                                  2.41      1.33      1.41       --        __      __       __
Miscellaneous Grants                              0.07      0.08     0.10       --        --       --       --       --        --        --         --
Capital receipts                                  0.32     0.16       --        --        --       --       --       --        - 
9.74    10.32      9.59    11.15       9.28    9.25    9.02       8.88      8.75      9.0        9.44
APPLICATIONS
Recurrent expenses  /4                            6.07      6.23     7.74      8.77    10.17   10.88   11.64    12.45    13.33    14.26           15.25
Adjustments to balances                            --        --      3.27       --        --       --       --        --        --       --          --
Capital expenditures                              1.01     5.58      0.72       --        --       --       --       --        --        --         --
7.08    11.81    11.73       8.77    10.17   10.88  1TT64 6       I2W5   -7JTh73    f726    T35,
BALANCE CARRIED FORWARD
Surplus                                           5.44      3.95     1.81      4.19      3.30    1.67       --        --        --        --         --
Deficit                                            --        --        --       --        --       --       .95      4.52      9.1     14.36      20.17
NOTE
1.  Natural growth in property tax rate 6.25%.  Fees and charges adjusted for free education from 1974.  Figuires after 1974 are at 1974 prices.
2.  Service fees and Recurrent Expenses assumed real rate of gro-th at 7%, the expected growth rate of GDP.
3.  No information is a vailable for capital expenditures for 1973 onwards and the above assumes no continuing capital program.  USAID loan
currently being nego-iated is not included.
4.  Returrent expenses include debt servicing on existing loans.



ANNEX 10
Page 9
Table 4
KENIA
APPRAISAL CF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Comnprehensive NCC Cash Flow
(Cumulative - With the Project)
(Ksi000)
119714    12      1976     1977      1978     1979     1980
I. NCC ANNUAL SURPLUS/DEFICIT
WITHOUT THE PROJECT 1/       3,300    -1,630   -2,620   -3,570   -4,580   -5,260   -5,810
II. IBRD SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
ANNUAL SURPLUS/DEFICIT
A. Residential Component
(mortgages)  &/            -         -         83       -55      363      -36      -105
B. Project Components
affecting General Fund
(Community Facilities,
Technical Assistance,
etc. )  1/                           -         -51     -153     -278     -363      -379
TOTAL ANNUAL SURPLUS/DEFICIT 3,300    -1,630   -2,588   -3,778   -4,495  -5,659   -6,294
&           _ma-   m_                  -__
TOTAL CUMULATIVE SURPLUS/    3,300     1,670      -918   -4,696   -9,191  -14,850  -21,144
DEFICIT  -          _m..
t/  Annex 10, Table 3;  assuming no capital program
2/ Annex 9, Table 3
3/  Annex 9, Table 4



ANNEX 11
Page 1
D)ANDORA CO!MUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STUDY OF NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL HOUSING OPERATIONS
BRIEF FOR CONSULTANT
I. BACKGROUND
The Nairobi City Council has recently completed a study of the City's
past and future growth and of its principal problems. The study defined a
general growth strategy for the city, focusing primarily on the areas of
employment, transportation, and housing. Regarding housing, the study con-
firmed that construction of new dwellings has been both inadequate in number
and of high cost, resulting in a growing squatter population, over-crowding
and a rapid increase in unapproved dwellings. The low level of public sector
output is a reflectLon partly of the rapidity of urban growth and limited
resources, and part:Ly of a relatively cumbersome and inefficient City Council
housing and services delivery system. The Urban Study, in recognition of this,
recommended the establishment of a Housing Agency within the City Council's
structure. The Kenya Government, in its review of the Urban Study, has
supported this recommendation and the Ministry of Housing and Social Services
has prepared an out:Line for such an Agency (Appendix 1).
The Dandora Community Development Project, a site and services
scheme being executfed with World Bank assistance, will make a substantial
contribution to Nairobi's low-cost housing stock. Because of the deficiencies
of the City Council's current administrative arrangements for housing pro-
jects, a special Department has been established within the Council for the
implementation of this project. Meanwhile, the present Study will be carried
out to define the tasks of the proposed Housing Agency and how it will operate.
The Study will propose a schedule for the establishment of the Agency and
when and how the Dandora Project Department can be merged with the Agency.
II. OBJECTIVES
The principal objective of setting up a strong, unified Housing
Agency is to enhance the institutional capacity of the Nairobi City Council
to program, plan, implement, and manage housing projects and related community
facilities quickly and efficiently. The Agency's attainment of this objective
will depend on improvements in four aspects of the housing operations within
Nairobi which will be the main focuses of the Consultants' study and recom-
mendations. Firstly, the adminsitrative structures for housing should be
reorganized to provide strong executive direction in the housing field, to
facilitate coordination of the activities necessary for the planning and



ANNEX 11
Page 2
implementation of projects, and to make the best use of staff and other re-
sources. Secondly, procedures which ensure a fair allocation amongst the
population for which a project is intended. Thirdly, new techniques of
financial management are necessary to ensure the financial viability of the
Council's housing operations and to provide the information required for
sound management and pricing policies. Finally, the procedures by which
councillors review and thus guide housing operations need to be revised to
improve the policy guidance to officers in this field, to reduce the time
devoted by both groups to committee meetings.
III. SCOPE OF STUDY
The Study shall be concerned primarily with the housing (including
related services) operations of the Nairobi City Council. The Consultants
shall be solely responsible for the conclusions and recommendations contained
in their report.
The Study shall cover the following:
(a) an analysis of existing housing operations, private and
public (planning, execution, management, financial policies
including rents);
(b) analysis of NCC's procedures for collection of rents and the
financial condition of housing accounts;
(c) on the basis of (a) and (b) above and the proposal in Appendix 1
formulate alternative operating and management procedures for
the proposed Agency and administrative arrangements for pro-
graming, planning, funding, implementation and management
of housing projects;
(d) a recommended system together with an action program for
its implementation; and
(e) a recommendation of how the Dandora Project Department
may integrate into the system.
1.        Analysis of Existing Housing Operations.  The Consultants shall
review the existing housing operations private and public, in Nairobi to
establish the current status and practices. With the Council's Housing
Operations, the review shall analyze at least the following:
(a) the Council's housing stock, by date of construction of
each scheme, cost per unit, present rents;
(b) the method used in calculating rents and the historical
profile of rent increases over the past ten years;



ANNEX 11
Page 3
(c) the method used in collecting rents and the process of
dealing with rent defaulters;
(d)  the housing financial account over the past ten years
with particular reference to the accounting system used,
sources of financial shortfalls etc., and the maintenance
process;
(e) the ways in which the Council's housing poli-cies have
been conceived and implemented;
(f) the process by which housing schemes and infrastructural
services are currently programed, planned, financed,
executed and allocated, paying attention to the decision
making role of the Central Government, the National Housing
Corporation, the Council Committees and the City's staff
on target population, standards etc.;
(g) the process by and stage at which related facilities (schools,
community centers etc.) are brought into the planning of
housing schemes. Consultants should pay particular attention
to coordination problems between agencies and department/
sections responsible for such facilities and the Department
of Social Services and Housing; and
(h) the size and staffing (quantity and quality) of the Departments
presently involved in housing, their structural relationship
with other Departments and Council Committees and their role
in project inception, programing, planning and execution.
From the above analysis, the Consultant shall identify the principal problems
and bottlenecks in inception, execution and management of housing projects
in the Council.
2.        Alternative Arrangements for Planning, Funding, Implementation,
and Managing Housing Operations
(a) The Consultants shall, based on_the foregoing review and their study
of the proposed Housing Agency (Appendix 1) formulate alternative
arrangements for overcoming the problems and bottlenecks identified
above;
(i)  in formulating these alternatives the Consultants shall
identify ways of streamlining and strengthening the
process, policy, inception, programing, planning
impLementation, allocation and management for housing
pro;jects as well as sensitizing it to the needs of
low-income groups. Special attention should be given
to the procedure by which the City Council draws up
its overall capital and recurrent program and the



ANNEX 11
Page 4
proportion thereof devoted to housing. The scope of
the Council's future housing activities shall be
identified;
(ii) the Consultants shall identify the preferred alternative.
(b) The Consultants shall outline operating procedures for the new
Agency, covering relationships with other Departments, Sections
(including possible amalgamations if appropriate), and Council
Committees in order to increase overall efficiency and ensure
timely provision of related facilities such as schools, public
health facilities etc., in numbers in compliance with Council's
and Government policies;
(c) The Consultants should recommend ways in which Council
Committees' review of housing projects and operations can
be simplified and focused on providing policy guidance.
The Consultants should also recommend fair and objective
ways of allocating housing including a critical examination
of allocation by computer;
(d) Based on their review of existing housing accounts and rent
calculation, the consultants shall suggest modifications to
Council's current accounting system and budgetary procedures
for housing to permit closer control of expenditure, to pro-
vide better information to executive officers about the
financial status of housing operations, to aid in the reduction
of arrears, and to allow more accurate calculation of the full
costs of Council housing projects. In this respect consultants
shall pay particular attention to pricing of facilities in
housing schemes and recommend pricing policies which will make
Council's housing operations substantially self-financing and
therefore replicable.
3.        Program for Implementation of Recommendations.  The Consultants
shall prepare a detailed schedule indicating how their recommendations can
be implemented with the least disruption to the Council's housing and other
programs and which reallocation of staff is required. They should clearly
state the priority of the changes and which changes are interdependent. Close
recognition should be paid to the fact that all reforms will be seen as areas
of discussion between the World Bank and the Nairobi City Council and cannot
be implemented without mutual consent.
4.        Schedule of Merger.  The schedule should include a detailed outline
of how the Dandora Project Department staff will be phased into the Housing
Agency. In framing this outline, it will be necessary to indicate which
elements of the merger would be contingent on prior reforms and which would
be consequential upon the Dandora Project Department's own experience during
its work on the Dandora Project.



ANNEX 11
Page 5
IV. TIME SCHEDULING FOR CONSULTANTS SERVICES AND REPORTS
The Consultants will be employed by the Nairobi City Council and
shall commence field work in Nairobi, the "starting date" defined in this
contract as being no more than 30 calendar days after the date on which the
contract has become effective. The Consultants shall prepare 25 copies of
each of the following reports (13 to be submitted to the City Council 5 to
the Government and 5 to the World Bank):
(a) A Progress Report describing the Consultants' analysis and
conclusions regarding the Nairobi City Council's existing
housing and related services delivery system, its problems,
bottlenecks and inefficiencies (see III (a) and (b)). The
report should be submitted within two months of the starting
date;
(b) A draft final report comprising the Consultants' findings
under III (a) (b) and their recommendations under III (c),
III (d) and III (e) above. Exhibits and other calculations
supporting the Consultants' conclusions shall be made available
to the City Council, the Government and the World Bank in
sufficient detail to permit checking all calculations and to
facilitate updating. The draft final report should be
submitted seven months after the starting date with a finalized
version to be available four weeks after receipt of comments
from the Council, Government and the World Bank.
V. SUGGESTED STAFFING
Considering the tasks to be performed it appears that 27 man-months
for 2 professionals and 12 man-months of secretarial assistance will be
required. Both professionals should have training in Housing Management or
accounting-cum-financial management. One shall be specialized in housing
adminsitration or management, the other in financial management with special
reference to housing operations. Both should have had substantial experience
advising governments, preferably in Kenya or countries comparable to Kenya
in terms of their governmental systems and level of economic development.
VI. INPUTS FROM THE GOVERNMENT OF KENYA AND THE NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL
The Nairobi City Council will provide the Consultants with office
space in the Nairobi City Hall for the seven months of the contract. The
report can be finaLized at the Consultants' offices. The Nairobi Town Clerk
and one senior civil servant from the Ministry of Local Government and one



ANNEX 11
Page 6
from the Ministry of Housing and Social Services will be designated as liaison
officers to assist the Consultants in their contacts with the Council and
Government respectively. Council officers shall be available for interview
about their work and the consultants shall have free access to all non-con-
fidential and, with the Town Clerk's consent, to confidential written records
and financial accounts pertaining to the Council's Housing operations. On
the Consultant's appointment, he will receive from Nairobi City Council and
available information mentioned in III (1).
VII. THE CONSULTANT'S PROPOSAL
The Consultants are requested to submit their proposals on how
they will carry out the study keeping in mind the time schedule required.
The proposals shall contain the curicular vitae of the staff
to be deployed.
The Consultant shall on the basis of staffing suggested, propose
his fee for the study and it shall be stated how much will be payable in
Kenya and how much elsewhere.
Furthermore, the proposal shall contain man/month rates for each
staff member.
VIII. CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS
The Nairobi City Council reserves the right to reject any sub-
mission which in the Council's opinion is not suitably qualified or displays
insufficient experience in this type of consultancy. The Council also
reserves the right to accept any submission received in part or in full.
Upon this matter the Council's decision is final.
IX. TIME FOR SUBMISSION
Submissions shall have reached the Nairobi City Council, Town
Clerk's Department before 1st May 1975, 4:00 p.m. Submissions received
later will not be considered.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
PROPOSED GOVERNMENT OF KENYA/WORLD BANK STUDY OF
LOW-COST HOUSING AND SQUATTER UPGRADING
Draft Terms of Reference
1.        As part of its efforts to make its housing programs more responsive
to low-income accommodation requirements, the Government of Kenya is initiating
a large Site and Services Project, the first in a series. Recognizing the
valuable role which existing low-income/squatter steelements 1/ can play in the
urbanization process, the Government is also considering the improvement in
situ of certain of these areas as a complementary part of its housing program.
Fundamental to upgrading is the granting of secure tenure rights and the
development of various means by which residents may participate through self-
help. Such programs would preserve and further develop on the existing housing
stock and investment as well as the economic base and social fabric of selected
settlements.
I. OBJECTIVES
2.        The purpose of preparing more site and services plots is to expand
new low-income housing stock. The review of low-income/squatter settlements
would assist Government in formulating programs for the upgrading of improvable
existing unauthorized settlements in Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu, and in defining
the means of strengthening the economic base of such areas in order to achieve
continuing improvement.
3.        The specific objectives of the study are as follows:
(a) to prepare proposals for providing about 20,000 site and
service plots in Nairobi, Mombassa and Kisumu;
(b) to prepare improvement proposals for settlements identified
by the Ministry of Housing and Social Services after consultation
with the Local Authorities in terms of granting tenure, improvement
of shelter and provision of public services and facilities,
as opposed to those requiring eventual relocation;
(c) to prepare designs, cost estimates, economic justification
and institutional arrangements in both improvement and site
and services areas;
1/   This refers to any settlement in which the majority of dwellings lack
adequate infrastructure and services.



ANINEX 12
Page 2
(d) to formulate specific proposals for strengthening the economic
base of the settlements to be improved as well as site and
services areas;
(e) to determine how, and to what extent the private sector can
be induced to play a significant role in the low-cost housing
market. The study should include the examination of financial
institutions and rules, building standards and existing by-laws
and other legislative and fiscal measures with a view to
recommending appropriate modifications.
II. SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
4.        The Consultants shall perform all technical studies, socio-economic
investigations and related work herein described, as required for the preparation
of reports which will be utilized in the endeavor to achieve the objectives
outlined above. In the conduct of this work the consultants shall cooperate
fully with the Government and the local authorities in the towns in question
which shall be responsible for providing all available data. The consultants
shall collate existing data required for the Study and shall be solely respon-
sible for the conclusions and recommendations contained in their reports.
5.        The Consultants shall review, sort and index all data, maps and
reports that are (i) made available in the course of study by the Government
and other organizations; and (ii) collected by the Consultants. Upon completion
of this assignment the Consultants shall submit these materials to the Ministry
of Housing and Social Services.
6.        The Study will be conducted in the following sequence:
PHASE I
(a) Identification of sites for about 20,000 site and service
plots in the three towns, about one-half to be developed
in Nairobi and the remainder in Mombasa and Kisumu.
(b) A quick review of existing information on unauthorized
settlements including informal sector employment activities
in the towns concerned, updating information, where necessary
through field surveys.
(c) Develop more detailed physical and socio-economic information
on each of the settlements selected for upgrading.
(d) Itemization of proposed improvements including design
standards.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
PHASE II
(e)  Development of layouts, designs, land requirements, preliminary
engineering and cost estimates for settlements to be upgraded
and site and service areas. Programs for stimulating employment
and income generation should also be costed.
(f)  Analysis of economic benefits.
(g)  Formulation of the institutional arrangements for project
implementation, participation of the private sector, granting
of tenure, cost recovery and collection procedures.
PHASE I (a)
7.        The Consultants shall identify sites for about 20,000 site and service
plots, paying particular attention to how the sites fit into the towns' Master
Plan, their accessibility to employment centers and proximity to existing
infrastructure. The Consultants shall examine alternative design standards for
the site and services at least by town and where appropriate by site. Account
should be taken of the following factors: people's ability to pay and the
desirability for the plots to be affordable by households as low as the 20th
percentile in the income scale.
PHASE I (b)
8.        The Consultants shall attempt to maximize the use of existing infor-
mation, particularly in Nairobi where a fairly substantial amount of data is
available. Such material should be updated where necessary; information gaps
identified, and brief surveys conducted sufficient to provide a basis for
reasonable decision making. Such review should address itself, inter alia, to
the following:
(i)  the extent of unauthorized development; estimated population,
physical coverage, and (growth trends) concentrations and
reasons for locational choices;
(ii)  socio-economic characteristics of households such as size
and composition, employment and income; the existence of
functioning harambee (self-help) groups;
(iii) housing: physical characteristics and value of dwellings,
population density, nature of present occupancy, desired
occupancy (ownership or rental), level of rents;
(iv) public utilities and facilities: roads, water supply,
sanitation, sewerage, waste disposal, electricity, schools
(including health clinics, fire protection, etc.);



ANNEX 12
Page 4
(v) formal and informal sector employment including ongoing
assistance programs; location and nature of markets,
financing, growth potential and constraints; and
(vi) transportation: mode of transport, destinations.
PHASE I (c) - Detailed Analysis of Selected Settlements
9.        Information on specific physical and socio-economic characteristics
of these settlements required for detailing an upgrading program will be
collected by the Consultants, with particular attention to existing land-use
patterns and ownership and demography, employment and other economic activities,
income levels, housing and general environmental conditions such as existing
infrastructure and services, local institutions, leadership and residents'
attitudes regarding improvement. The Consultants shall be responsible for
designing survey questionnaires, identifying and hiring competent personnel
to carry out the surveys, supervising the implementation and recording, and
processing of data. Such surveys should be confined to information required
for project preparation, and the terms of reference outlined above.
PHASE I (d) - Itemization of Proposed Improvements
10.       The steps outlined in (b) and (c) above should result in the identi-
fication of appropriate improvements which reflect to the extent possible
priorities expressed by the resident population with some modification based
on a realistic assessment of occupant's ability to pay. Where appropriate,
the staffing and operating costs of each of the facilities and programs
provided under the project should be determined and the agency responsible for
operation and maintenance specified. The proposals should clearly spell out
the priorities among services to be provided, and the design and engineering
standards to be achieved with respect to each of the selected amenities. All
designs should be suitable for future upgrading as residents' incomes gradually
rise and dwelling and servicing needs change. Consideration should be given,
inter alia, to the following types of improvements:
(i) infrastructure (water, roads, footpaths, sanitation,
refuse collection, electricity, and security lighting)
including any off-site trunk infrastructure considered
essential to project execution;
(ii) community facilities (e.g., schools, health clinics,
community centers, recreational areas);
(iii) facilities, technical assistance stimulating job creation
and other activities (markets, shops, and small industrial
areas);
(iv) shelter improvement; and
(v) transportation.



ANNEX 12
page 5
11.       Upon completion of the above task, the Consultants shall submit to
the Government, the Local Authorities concerned, and the Bank a Progress
Report presenting their recommendations based on the findings from the review
and analysis to date.
PAHSE II (e) - Preliminary Layouts, Design and Costs
12.       On the basis of their findings in Phase I, the Consultants shall
develop layouts for both site and services and improve.aent areas. Regarding
improvement areas, the layouts shall maximize the use of existing roads,
community areas, etc., wherever possible, and establish a framework suitable
for more complete servicing at a later stage. Spatial provision should be
make for dwellings requiring relocation because of improvements. Land require-
ments should be identified including, where relevant, procedures necessary
for transfer. Preliminary engineering and designs should be completed for all
infrastructure (on/and off-site) and community facilities to be included in
both upgrading and site and service areas, together with cost estimates. Items
to be constructed through self-help should be costed at contractor prices.
Costs should be broken down by settlement and investment type. 1/ Back-up
data designs and costs should be retained by the Consultants in an easily
accessible form. If building materials loans are to be included in the
project, details should be given as to whether these would be in cash or
kind, average and ceiling amounts, and administration. Specific proposals for
strengthening the economic base of these communities should be described, includ-
ing the type of activities affected, their major constraints, the focus and
content of the recommended program and the extent of any proposed regulations.
PHASE II, (f) - Analysis of Economic Benefits
13.       The Consultants shall identify the benefits of the proposed upgrading
of the facilities, quantifiable and non-quantifiable. For the quantifiable
benefits the Consultants shall calculate a rate of return comparing benefits
with costs including land development (opportunity cost) and maintenance. The
rate of return analysis should clearly spell out the methodology used and key
assumptions. The Consultants shall submit a separate technical paper on
methodology to the Government and the Bank before carrying out their detailed
calculations.
PHASE II (g) - Institutional Arrangements
14.       The Consultants shall formulate proposals for an appropriate
institutional base for the execution of both site and services and upgrading
schemes and the required organization and management including staffing and
1/   Costs by category, i.e., infrastructure, community facilities, etc., and
type of work, i.e., civil works, materials and equipment.



ANNEX 12
Page 6
technical assistance. The Consultants shall also recommend an objective allo-
cation procedure for site and services. A suitable tenure period should be
identified as well as the instruments to be used in issuing titles, leases
or occupancy permits and the appropriate institutional base. The consultants
shall indicate whether an adequate legislative basis exists or is needed in
order to achieve secure tenure rights. Existing building by-laws and
development codes should be reviewed to ensure these regulations are consistent
with proposed improvements and construction standards. Recovery sources for
the various types of expenditures shall be outlined identifying clearly those
attributable to households.  An approximation should be made of the monthly
charge to participants based on 1975 costs, and including all relevant municipal
rates and taxes, accompanied by an analysis of occupants' ability to pay.
Collection procedures should be outlined, an estimate made of the anticipated
level of default, and recommendations made on the handling of such defaults
covering all steps up to and including eviction procedures. An estimated work
program should be prepared specifying the various phases of project execution.
The program should incorporate the steps preceding ground-breaking such as
community education and essential resettlement, and should spell out in practical
terms the role of the community itself in executing the project. Components
requiring self-help participation should be phased to maximize completion of
each task with priority facilities executed first. At the completion of the
tasks outlined above, the Consultants shall prepare a Final Report covering
the analysis and conclusions under both Phase I and II of the Study.
Important data developed during the Study should be properly catalogued and
made available for discussion purposes during project execution.
III. TIME SCHEDULE AND REPORTS
15.       The Consultants shall commence field work on the "starting date,"
defined in this contract as being no more than 30 calendar days after the
date on which the Contract has become effective. The Consultants shall prepare
25 copies of each of the following reports for submission to the Government,
the Local Authorities concerned and the Bank respectively:
(i) a Progress Report describing the proposed improvements
in up-grading areas, sites for 20,000 plots and recommended
design standards should be submitted within eight months
of the starting date;                        b
(ii) a comprehensive Final Report outlining the scope and
nature of the improvement and site and services project
and detailing layouts, infrastructure, land requirements,
community facilities, costs and institutional arrangements
as itemized under Section II above. Specific provisions
should be made for strengthening the economic base of
the communities affected. The data and calculations which



ANNEX 12
Page 7
support the consultants' conclusions shall be made available
to the Government, the Local Authorities concerned, and the
Bank in sufficient detail to permit checking all calculations
and to facilitate updating and adjustment for changes in
basic data. A draft Final Report should be submitted
12 months from the starting date, with a finalized
version to be available four weeks after receipt of
Government and Bank comments.
16.       In view of the tasks to be performed and the time period allowed, a
staffing unit of five professionals should be sufficient to complete the
preparation. Their profiles should cover the following areas:
(i) Project Manager: an experienced physical planner
with knowledge of sociology, economics, and if possible,
practical experience in similar sorts of projects;
(ii) A Municipal Engineer with particular expertise in
urban infrastructure and public utilities;
(iii) A Sociologist preferably with extensive local knowledge
and familiarity with the characteristics of very low-income
and squatter communities;
(iv) An Economist with some experience in informal sector
analysis; and
(v) A Legal Expert experienced in land management.
VI. PROVISION OF DATA AND SERVICES BY GOVERNMENT
17.       The Government and Local Authorities concerned shall provide the
Consultants with available data and reports relevant to their work and liaison
staff. The Consultants shall liaise with the University and other volunteer
agencies actively involved in research or development programs in squatter and
low-income settlements. The Government agency responsible for this study will
be the Ministry of Housing and Social Services which will assign one person to
assist, guide and help coordinate the Consultants activities.



A74EK 13
KICTYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                    Disbursement at End of Quarter
and Quarter                       Quarterly            Cumulative
----J$S$ million-
"Y1976
December 31, 1975                 1.2                     1.2
March 31, 1976                    0.9                     2.1
June 30, 1976                     0.9                     3e0
FY1977
September 30, 1976                0.9                     3.9
December 31, 1976                 0.9                     4.8
March 31, 1977                     1.5                    6.3
June 30, 1977                     1.5                     7.8
FY1978
September 30, 1977                1.5                     9.3
December 31, 1977                  1.5                   10.8
March 31, 1978                    o.85                   11.65
June 30, 1978                     o.85                   12.50
FY1979
September 30, 1978                0.85                   13.35
December 31, 1978                 0.85                   14.20
March 31, 1979                    0.45                   14.65
June 30, 1979                     0.45                   15.10
FY1980
September 30, 1979                0.45                   15.55
December 31, 1979                 0.45                   16.OO



A-,T,ExY  14
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Econciic Evaluation
Cost and Benefit Streams
(KS '000)
1       2       3       4        5       6       7-40
Project Costs
Land  1/                       667       -       -       -        -
Site PFeparation                23     91       22       -       -        _       _
On-Site Infrastructure          98    357      517      259      -        -       _
Cost of Structures: 2/
Value of Materials              94    484     780       533     429     720       _
Labor                           21    148      254      199     214     360       -
Project Operating Costs:   3/
Maintainance                    -       2        8       17      21      21      21
Project Unit Operations        100    100      100       48      -        -       -
Total Costs   4/          ~*Oi                           2       84     99      1
Project Benefits  /               73   1040    1479        929      58l     969    19
Imputed Rental Value   5/       -      36      72       324     864   1,296  1,296
Land                            -       -        -        -       -        -    667  1/
Tot-al Benef-its               -       -       -                   -
Rate of Return =  16.95            0       36      72      324      864   1,296  1,963
1/ Land - estimated market value: on benefits side it has been included for the last
year only.
2/ Core units have 23% labor (see Annex 5, Tables 2-h) and self-built rooms have 40%
labor. Labor is shadow priced by a factor of 25%. This figure is assumed to be
reasonable in view of the relatively high unemployment rate in Nairobi of 13% rising
to 20% in squatter areas.  Moreover, much of the work on self-built housing is _
typically done by women who are not a part of the labor force and on weekends by
those who are employed.
3/ Assumed at 2% of costs of on-site infrastructure; Project Unit costs have been
included only for first four years. Although some management will continue to be
necessary after project construction it will be small and is difficult to estimate.
f/ !'oreign exchange has been shadow priced at US'1 = KSh1O instead of the o-ficial
TTS,1 = KwSh7.10.  This results in total, costs being reduced by 12%.
5/ Assume 1.,000 rooms at KG6 per room per month are ready for half a year in 1976 and a
full year in 1977, the same 1,000 with two rooms ready in 1978 and 5,000 with one
room ready for half a year in 197B, 6,000 with two rooms in 1979, 6,000 with three
rooms in 1980, and thereafter. Rental figures reflect charges for units of a
coTrparable standard to those in the project, and which are not serviced with water or
sewerage. Figures are based on 1971/72 survey results.






KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Construction Schedule
1974            1975            1976             1977           1978            1979
1  2   3   4   1  2 13   4   1  2   3   4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3   4
OFF-SITE INFRASTRUCTURE                                        I
Trunk Sewers and Temporary
Oxidation Ponds                                      - ._  _.0, 
Trunk Sewers, Extension,
Sewage Treatment Plant and                                           M _    W  s_ _      v J _t _l  zI 
Access Roads
SITE PREPARATiON, SERVICING
AND CORE UNIT CONSTRUCTION
Phase 1: 1000 Lots                                                          isii    I       I III III                        m miii
Phase 2: 5000 Lots                                     111111 Ol  T I   MEN _ FA        wIr- K-r   Fr  OIV p-vt"l" I I I       ll
MATERIALS LOANS                                                        _                                                     r t,fi
COMMUNITY FACILITIES                                           1L,   ' n_  _e_ +   t          +r, W t  -rO - wl -  VW
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Project Unit                                                                               on  --      I
Studies                                                         1111111111                                - -m
Monitoring 
LEGEND
Design     s_____               Allottees Construction u.mummmmuu..mn
of Basic Dwellings
Tendering_
Construction ^                  Technical Assistance   a _  _  _  _ I
World Bank-9324






PROJECT UNIT ORGANIZATION
DANDORA
PROJECT
COMMITTEE
PROJECT
MANAGER
DEPUTY
MANAGER
TECHNICAL            FINANCIAL         COMMUNITY DEV.
DIVISIONJDIVISION                         DIVISION
World Bank-9325(R~)






I 8 R D  1 IOb7
LU~~~~~ 
g02    ,9'--                                       0                                  ' .---
0  0 S   t                             i\            vt   0                              X  7           /Ut
V)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IN\       f'- *-'     \.              Tf  tx
L.'i)U   <7 /           -....D----  -.  .----. -,'    ,-''-'0-'  : i0    .:0$00
(I).
LU      \ 
u-J
u1z~~~~~~~~~~   /~~~~






I BR D 11068
+   t ( ,, e      5~NElim P0 T74
YA    ~ ~ 3'5'37'                                                                  ETHIOPIA
K's E N YA             36 50                       37-                      <  /   Tt - i/ eTrH PIA
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT                                                                     , d ,
REGIONAL SETTING OF NAIROBI                                                                                         oMobe
' fl   AREAS OF GREATEST POTENTIAL FOR                                                  -                         oWoI j
DEVELOPMENT IDENTIFIED BY NAIROBI                                                                      A  '
URBAN STUDY                                                                         K   F   N   (   A
PROJECT SITE
MAIN ROADS                                                                 EcA'S
,-4-,--+-, RAILWAYS                                                                                  K
  --   -CITY BOUNDARY                                                                P        'ASKA (: "A 
IC3     BUILT-UP AREAS                                                               N              NAROE
-  6pc---  CONTOURS IN FEET                                                                     L_ .,
RIVERS                                                                     -       N                 '
T A N  A N    A'~~ 1       I,dVAt
TANZANIrA        I
o             10           20
KILOMETERS                _                                                             .Mo b                                  4
T,W                                            A
S   :  '   '  )   \ .                                     *'~   ~  ~~~ ~~~' '"" ..  ___ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __  _
T,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
NG  N
r~~~~~~~7 AS .. h.                                                                         I V
Pl     -                             To Arsh    ) <'KAV






IBRD 11069
K E N  Y A                                                                                                 fi
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT                                                                               (l
NAIROBI: LAND USE
LOCATION OF PROJECT SITE                                                                                   KENYA    -   L
I OW DENSITY RES DENTIAL              PRCJECT S E                     '                                                                        FORESTS      4
MEDIUM DENSITY RETIDENTiAL        ::  NDUSTRIES                                 CENTRAL ARLA                                                    >0T0i
H CH DENSITY RES DENTIAL       L,        B ELIC ANP FRIVATE OPEN SPACES      I OTHER;INCLUD NG AGRICULTJRAL           N1R >  -J rEcODE
e  AND uNDEcVLOPED LANDS                     N .
tORTT       $                                                  | |  |  |   F | | | | | PUELI0 AN D GOVERNMENT
No            )                                                    I I I I l I I LAND AND BILD NGS  
TANZAN IA                       IADII
4-~~~~~~~~-
\   5                                                                                                                                         T    A  N    Z    A   P4  1   A   >i~~~~~~EEl  ND  RE   AD   N  O C EN  V
,   0                                  -     EXIS NG hCADS                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRJNK SEW ERAND S T W                             7e     0 :AlmosO ~
EXIST NG RAILWAY,                        pE151 P                                               _______    N      40_
-REATMLNT WORKS                   ATO 7Ack,         TSrT,c      ..c,e  ..... S,cc" .
\-Y BROJODARSY                                                                                     - Zip)  ccdcl>ce 1lt cc  'p/ee thc |S
\  S   ~>  R VERS                                                                                  c.' c
-00                                                        S. %  /
A~~~~~~~~~
<-_1~~~~~~~~~~4 .LDA,,4   oMobsIKID                                                                       MEl   
Th  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
41~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.
0       5                  1~~~~~~~~~~~0
16          ....  .~~~~N.. To/dolcs






BERE 15391
KENYA/                                                                                                                                                                            F
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT                                                                                                                                         -                                                                  i
NAIROBI: SEWERAGE PLAN                                                                                                                                                                                       i
8 i .                                                    Q.                                                                                                                            C; 8.81
Y  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
'5~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~N
|  ,; '.   :  : t+~~~~ :   . _.                             \    -       |                .     \        ,:                   rrD~V LOPSV. 555 TO8 979  m,:d                         
a zi 0 : : " 9'<_ N A I R O EJ_S A T %,N A i ' A F K ' '- X ~~~~~MAIN SEWERS V//  
IS ~ ~       ~      ~       ~      8 ->                                              __        r estn rg                                    E                        rSj  nt\!grk
As                   -- a                         ~~ ~~~>49<>L0->E=<vG >i _ \Jo \> Other             SewErs PrnnedI R-FT 2 
-~~~~ .,-                                         -'-V.-.             'X-      ,                                                           -      } Cl She; me a lStasecrs w SR Eo nghisro  -
rLEIH W \  "                                                ssr,oq Fr s8 n8 SEsIdAos
~~~,IRPORT3o;f a,;Se~rdAso



