CIRCUL    MATfC ING COPY
FILE        COPY           TO BE REfbR f-Jg%4REDORTG 9ERTS DES
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-150Oa-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
NAIROBI SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
April 16, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



C1T YL32(Y f~I,QUIVAL&TS
Currency Unit=               Kenya Shil]in:, (K Sh)
US$1                         K Sh
K 3h 1                =      US$O.
K Sh 1,000                    US
K Sh 1,000,000               uS$
Fiscal Year           -      July 1 to Julne 30



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A NAIROBI SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$8.0
million on standard IDA terms and loan for the equivalent of US$8.0 million
to help finance a Nairobi Site and Service Project. The loan would have a
term of 25 years including four years of grace with interest at 8-1/2% per
annum. The Government would onlend the bulk of the proceeds of the credit
and loan to Nairobi City Council (NCC) on the same terms as the Bank loan.
NCC would onlend funds in respect of mortages and materials loans to project
beneficiaries at 8-1/2% per annum over 20 to 30 years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Second Decade:   Basic Economic Report on
Kenya" (Report No. 201-KE, dated January 15, 1974) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 20, 1974. It was followed by an agricultural
sector survey on Kenya (Report No. 254a-KE, dated December 20, 1973) distri-
buted on March 13, 1974. A special mission visited Kenya in February 1974
to review the economy's prospects and aid requirements in the light of the
changes in commodity prices. The mission reported to the Consultative Group
meeting held in Paris on April 18 and 19, 1974. Since then, we have closely
followed further developments in frequent contacts with Kenyan authorities
and in coordination with the IMF staff. Country data sheets are attached in
Annex I.
3.        In 1973, Kenya completed its first decade as an independent nation.
During this period, Kenya's achievements were notable. On taking power at the
end of 1963, the Government inherited a difficult challenge. While Kenya was
already rather more developed than many newly independent African nations,
the dualistic nature of the economy, which concentrated much of the wealth
within the European and Asian communities, tended to overshadow the underlying
poverty of the mass of the African people. Poverty in the rural areas, where
90 percent of the population lived, was as serious in Kenya as in most African
countries.
4.        In terms of overall growth, Kenya's economic performance since
Independence has been impressive in almost all respects. During the period
since 1964, GDP has grown at an average rate of about 7% in real terms,



- 2 -
which has allowed significant gains in per capita income despite the high
population growth rate. Average per capita income had risen to $180 in 1973,
which is about the median for African countries. This growth rate has been
supported by a high and growing rate of investment in both the private and
public sectors. In the early seventies, fixed capital formation has accounted
for over 25% of monetary GDP, which is an exceptionally high investment rate.
However, this has inevitably put a strain on Kenya's economic resource base
and subsequently on the balance of payments, despite the fact that Kenya's
domestic savings rate, about 20%, is one of the highest in the developing
world.
5.        The Government's fiscal and monetary management has been one of the
factors responsible for the generally sound performance of the economy. On
the fiscal side, the public sector's performance has been good. In 1964, Kenya
had a recurrent budget deficit, a relatively insignificant development budget
and depended heavily on external aid. Since then, by virtue of its increasing
tax effort and disciplined control on spending, the Government has (i) con-
verted its recurrent deficit into a substantial surplus (which in 1970/71
accounted for 23 percent of all national savings), (ii) expanded its develop-
ment budget at an average rate of 27 percent a year, and (iii) considerably
reduced its relative dependence on external aid. The fact that Kenya achieved
these results until recently with only negligible internal inflation and
without resorting to expensive forms of external financing makes this per-
formance even more notable.
6.        While Kenya's performance in sustaining a fast rate of overall growth
over the first decade has been very good, some aspects of development were
less satisfactory; the benefits of development have not been distributed as
widely as the Government would like and, in particular, unemployment is grow-
ing and poverty persists. It is easy to criticize lack of progress in dis-
tributing the benefits of development, and always possible, in retrospect,
to suggest a somewhat different set of policies. But no one pretends that
there are any quick or easy solutions to rural poverty, the growing pressure
on the urban areas or the young educated unemployed. The fact that the
Government did request the International Labour Organization to undertake a
msjor mission and, after careful consideration, accepted much of the general
strategy of ILO's innovative report, is evidence of a commitment to wider
distribution of development benefits.
7.        In looking at the decade ahead, the Bank concluded in its Basic
Economic Report that the first prerequisite for an effective attack on un-
employment and rural poverty would be to maintain or even increase the past
rate of growth. However, a number of indicators suggest that it will become
more difficult for Kenya to maintain the momentum gained in the past; this
follows in part from the very success of its performance so far, as well as
from the fact that the more obvious development opportunities have already
been exploited. Capital/output ratios have been rising, savings have shown
some sign of levelling off and the increasing resource gap has started to



-3-
put pressure on the balance of payments. The report foresaw, in particular,
a severe balance of payments constraint if growth were to continue along the
previous lines, and therefore advocated a restructuring of the pattern of
growth which would alleviate if not completely solve this constraint.
8.        The basic development strategy is therefore that, whatever short-
term policies may be needed to deal with immediate problems, the economy has
to be induced to operate more efficiently, both in utilizing fewer inputs of
scarce resources (particularly capital and skilled labor) and in generating
greater benefits. This requires both a change in the structure of growth
with less investments in infrastructure and greater emphasis on agriculture
and domestic resource-based industries, and a change in the process of growth
in all sectors, particularly through changes in the prices of factors of
production. The strategy advocated by the Basic Economic Report will, among
other things, move Kenya towards greater self-reliance in the longer term,
by increasing the efficiency of domestic resource use and diminishing the
dependence on imports. But the proposed changes will necessarily take time.
9.        In the Third Development Plan, 1974-1978, the Government has set
an overall growth target of 7.4% per annum and indicated that this rather
ambitious growth has to be achieved by a restructuring strategy which in a
general sense, although not in all details, runs parallel to the approaches
advocated in the Bank and ILO/UNDP Reports. Because of recent developments
in the international monetary and trade relations, Kenya's structural adjust-
ment problems are now presenting themselves at a much earlier stage in the
development process than expected. The balance of payments constraint has
assumed an acute character requiring immediate remedies as well as structural
policy changes. After a temporary improvement in 1973 (thanks to important
price increases for two major crops, coffee and sisal) Kenya's terms of trade
have resumed their downward trend in 1974, when export prices levelled off
but import prices soared, both for oil and non-oil trade flows. Kenya is
heavily dependent on petroleum which has to be wholly imported. The existing
hydroelectric potential is already under development and the exploration of
the geothermal potential is being accelerated. While in previous years exports
of oil products produced by the refinery in Mombasa approximately covered the
costs of oil imports, the oil trade has yielded a net deficit since 1974 and
will involve more and more foreign exchange costs in coming years. This vital
import is expected to cost as much as $77 million (net) in 1974. In addition,
the deficit for non-oil trade is estimated at over $200 million. Even with
higher receipts both on the invisibles balance and from regular capital flows
(net), a high overall balance of payments deficit emerges. Another effect
of the world inflation was the domestic inflation in Kenya which assumed
unprecedented proportions. The cost of living increase for lower income
families was 15% in 1973 and certainly not less in 1974. At the same time,
drought depressed Kenya's crops and livestock production and added pressure
to the price level.



-4-
10.       Government recognized that the situation called for a set of measures
to contain effective demand for imports to the extent necessary in the imme-
diate future, while more fundamental restructuring policies -- along the lines
advocated in the Basic Economic Report -- were being put into place. The
latter would admittedly take time in creating an impact. In the short term,
steps were taken in the course of 1974 to tighten domestic credit expansion
to the private sector, mainly by an increase in the prime lending rate and
referral of foreign-controlled companies, in line with already existing rules,
to overseas money markets for the satisfaction of their credit needs. At the
same time, interest rates on savings and deposit accounts were raised to en-
courage private Bank savings. The Government's budget proposals for 1974/75
allowed for less expansion, in real terms, of recurrent expenditures than
originally foreseen in the Development Plan; in development expenditures,
non-essential building projects were postponed. Taxes were raised so as to
limit government recourse to bank borrowing. The tax increases included sales
taxes on imported consumer goods, in particular petroleum products, which aimed
at bringing down demand for these products while greater restraint was also
placed on profits by increases in the tax on company profits (from 40 to 45%),
the tax on foreign branches' profits (from 47.5 to 52.5%) and the tax on divi-
dends paid to non-residents (from 12.5 to 15%). Moveover, an export compensa-
tion scheme for manufactured products was established to promote exports.
11.       In addition to these domestic measures, Government turned to foreign
donors and in particular to the IMF and the World Bank Group, and applied for
special financial assistance. In the course of 1974, Kenya obtained about
$70 million in various emergency resources (including the IMF oil facility)
and,by drawing on its foreign exchange reserves to the extent of about $40
million, managed to cover the balance of payments deficit in 1974. At the
beginning of 1975, the country's reserves represented the equivalent of about
2 months of imports, and this level prevents much further use of reserves as
a means of financing. This year, Kenya will therefore have to rely heavily
on special forms of foreign assistance to help finance the balance of payments
deficit which, even under the assumption of constant imports in real terms,
is forecast at a level exceeding the 1974 deficit. Bank staff members have
discussed with Kenya Government officials, in the context of the Government's
application for a Program loan, concerning measures to contain the 1975 deficit
within manageable proportions and accelerated the introduction of a package of
policies to restructure economic growth and restore the balance of payments
equilibrium in the longer term. Under the present conditions of uncertainty
about world inflation and demand in developed nations it is exceptionally
difficult to estimate the time period needed to reach this equilibrium.
12.       Kenya's outstanding external debt increased from $258 million at
the end of 1963 to $596 million at the end of 1973, of which $401 million
has been disbursed. Thus, since Independence, Kenya has accumulated external
debts at a rate of about 8.5% per year, or only slightly slower than the
average rate of growth of GDP. Kenya's debt service burden is comparatively
light (4.2% of exports in 1973, excluding Kenya's share in E.A.C. debt).



About 37% of total external debt is now held by the Bank Group, but because
Bank Group lending has only recently become a significant proportion of Kenya's
debt, debt service to the Bank Group in 1973 was still only about 11% of all
debt service payments. In addition to its own external public debt, debts
incurred by the East African Community and its institutions amounted to some
$216 million (outstanding including undisbursed) in September 1972.
13.       While Kenya's economic performance certainly justifies substantial
amounts of concessionary financing, including IDA credits, these are available
in limited amounts only. Therefore, under the present assumptions, Kenya's
debt service would increase as a result of both a higher level of borrowing
needed to bridge the balance of payments gap in the next few years and on the
average less favorable terms of borrowing than obtained before. With the
expected increase in exports the debt service ratio would probably not exceed
11Z by the end of the seventies so that the country is creditworthy for Bank
lending. Beyond 1980 increased creditworthiness will depend on Government's
ability to take action now to increase the productivity of capital, to
increase domestic savings and to increase exports. These are central issues
in our discussions with the Government. By the end of the seventies, the Bank
Group share in total debt outstanding and disbursed would be about 40% but the
Bank Group share in debt service payments would remain modest (about 11%). The
revised public investment program of Kenya for the next few years is well
justified. However, in spite of the considerable efforts of the Government to
improve domestic resource mobilization, limitations on domestic resources are
such that a substantial part of the costs of the program, somewhat in excess
of the foreign exchange costs, will have to be financed from external sources.
14.       Kenya is one of the three Partner States belonging to the East
African Community. However, in practice the degree of economic integration
and cooperation among the Partner States is much less than what had originally
been envisaged. Fundamental differences between political philosophies and
socio-economic policies pursued by the Partner States have impaired the growth
of interstate trade. These difficulties have now been compounded by the
balance of payments crisis which currently faces all three Partner States,
and each country has been forced to reexamine its international obligations
and make decisions which it sees as being in its own best interest. The
differences between the Partner States have created operational difficulties
for the Community Corporations. There has been a growing interference in the
day-to-day operations of the Corporations by the Partner States with the
result that some of these common services are now unable to operate as effi-
cient entities. The East African Railways Corporation (EARC) has been the
most severely affected. As a result of long delays by the Partner States in
approving increases in tariffs until 1974 and restrictions placed on the
interstate transfer of corporate funds the corporation has been unable to
order essential spare parts and supplies with the result that its operational
capacity has deteriorated drastically. In July 1974 the Partner States agreed
on a package of financial measures designed to rehabilitate the EARC. They



- 6 -
also agreed to appoint consultants to recommend a decentralized structure for
the Corporation. However, this agreement has been only partially implemented.
Restrictions have continued to be placed on the interstate transfer of EARC,
anid other Community Corporation funds, and its position has deteriorated
further. The Partner States have so far been unable to resolve these diffi-
culties.
PART II - BANK GROUP LENDING TO KENYA
15.       Kenya has to date received eleven Bank loans and sixteen IDA credits
amounting to $146.9 million and $127.7 million, respectively. In addition,
Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of nine loans totalling $229.8 million
which have been extended for the development of common services (railways,
ports, telecommunications and finance for industry) operated regionally for
the three Partner States of the East African Community -- Kenya, Tanzania and
Uganda. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits
to Kenya and the East African Community organizations, a summary of IFC invest-
ments in Kenya, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Ongoing projects in Kenya are on the whole progressing satisfactorily,
but manpower constraints in engineering and other technical fields continue to
present problems and have slowed down progress on some projects. Because of
the difficulties in attracting qualified expertise, no immediate remedy can
be expected. However, the gradual increase in suitably trained Kenyans to
fill such positions should eventually alleviate these problems.
17.       Most of the Bank Group's direct lending to Kenya in the past has
been for infrastructure, especially transportation and power. However, other
sectors, including agriculture and forestry, education, family planning and
water supply, have also received support. We intend, in the future, to give
greater emphasis to agriculture and other directly productive sectors, parti-
cularly to projects which are likely to bring more immediate benefits to large
numbers of people and will, as much as possible, increase Kenya's foreign
exchange earnings. With these objectives in mind, the Bank agreed with the
Government on a program for expanding the Bank's technical assistance in
,griculture, beginning with the agricultural sector survey that was mounted
in late 1972. We have provided an expanded program of assistance in project
identification through the Regional Mission in Eastern Africa, and have sup-
ported an agricultural advisor who assists the Ministry of Agriculture in
preparing projects.
18.       This expanded technical assistance is starting to show results.   An
IDA credit and a Bank loan totalling $15 million for a Group Farms Rehabilita-
tion Project was approved by the Executive Directors earlier this year. A
forestry project which will expand industrial pine plantations has been
appraised. Preparatory work is under way for an integrated crop production
project, an irrigation project in the Lower Tana River Basin, and for promo-
tion of the sugar industry in Kenya. While these results are encouraging,



- 7 -
they are only a beginning. To support adequately the development of agricul-
ture and the rural areas of Kenya will require sustained efforts. We are having
a continuous dialogue with the Government on how best we can support accelerated
agricultural development during Kenya's 1974-78 Plan period. Yet, while the
major emphasis will continue to be on directly productive agriculture, we fore-
see a need for complementary development of rural infrastructure and anticipate
assisting rural water supply and rural access roads in the future. We will
also shortly appraise a wildlife and tourism project which will develop new
tourist circuits and help spread benefits to a large number of rural communi-
ties.
19.       Concurrently with efforts to promote the development of the rural
economy, substantial investment continues to be required to keep public services
abreast of economic growth and the Government has requested the Bank Group,
its traditional source for large infrastructure financing, to assist in
financing several large infrastructure projects. To provide a more efficient
and economic means of moving increasing volumes of petroleum products from
Mombasa to Nairobi, an oil pipeline project is under consideration. A power
project to keep pace with Kenya's rapidly growing demand and a water supply
project to alleviate water shortages in Mombasa and the coastal areas have been
appraised. In view of the high capital costs of these projects we expect a
significant amount of bilateral finance to be associated with Bank Group financing.
In addition, a second project for the Industrial Development Bank and a third
education project have been appraised. In view of the balance of payments
constraint which Kenya faces (see paragraph 11) and which is caused by exceptional
circumstances beyond its control, I also intend shortly to submit a Program Loan
to the Executive Directors.
20.       The difficulties facing the East African Community Corporations
referred to in paragraph 14 have affected the Bank's lending program for the
Community. Since EARC corporate funds are not being transferred in accordance
with the formula agreed in July 1974 and $8.6 million out of a total of $21
million the Partner States agreed to inject into EARC have not been paid, the
EARC's right to make withdrawals under Loan No. 674 EA has been suspended pending
action on both these issues. Furthermore, in the current state of uncertainty
regarding the future structure of the Community Corportions, appraisal of further
proposed Community projects has been postponed until the issues mentioned above
have been clarified.
21.       IFC has committed a total of $25.9 million for three companies in
Kenya (Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; and
Tourism Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.). As of January 31, 1975, IFC held
for its own account 17.9 million comprising $13.3 of loans and $4.6 of equity.
IFC is discussing with the technical partner, SEDITEX, and the Industrial
Commercial Development Corporation a proposal to set up a new textile mill in
Nakuru and is also considering supporting sugar production in Kenya.



III. THE URBAN SECTOR
22.       Although a relatively recent phenomenon in Kenya, urbanization has
proceeded rapidly since Independence in 1963. Both the number of urban '-
centers and the concentration of growth in the largest towns have increased
sharply. In terms of population, while Kenya's overall annual growth rate
has averaged about 3.3% over the last decade, the country's urban population
has grown at an annual average rate of about 6% during the period. In 1962
the urban population totaled about 670,000, roughly 8% of the then national
population; by 1974 these figures had risen to about 1.6 million or 13% of the
national population. The Government estimates in its 1974-78 Development Plan
that by 1978, 2.2 million people, or 15% of the country's total, will be
living in Kenya's towns and cities.
23.       The broad causes of rapid urbanization in Kenya are not hard to
establish. According to recent estimates average urban household incomes
were five times higher than those of average rural households; moreover,
growing population pressure on good agricultural land has encouraged rural-
urban migration. Finally, in Kenya as in other developing countries, the
urban sector is a major source of growth in the economy, and consequently
attracts those, especially the younger and better educated, who perceive the
opportunities for advancement which it offers.
24.       Urban population growth is very heavily concentrated in the country's
two largest cities, Nairobi (1974 estimated population 730,000) and Mombasa
(1974 estimated population 310,000). Thus, these two cities alone account
for nearly 2/3 of the country's total urbanized population. The remainder
is located in 46 centers, including the important secondary cities of Nakuru
(66,000), Kisumu (46,000), Eldoret (25,000), and Thika (25,000).
25.       The pace of urban growth has created serious and mounting problems,
especially in Nairobi and Mombasa. These strains are most evident in the
fields of housing and related facilities such as water supply and sewerage
services. Urban poverty is also a major problem, as income-earning opportuni-
ties, particularly at lower levels, have been unable to keep up with popula-
tion growth. Meanwhile, municipal revenues have become increasingly inadequate
to undertake programs to ameliorate the situation.
26.       The inevitable difficulties associated with a sharp increase in
urban population, have, moreover, been compounded by certain aspects of past
government policy. While programs for rural development have been expanded,
the pricing structure for a number of crops and livestock may have discouraged
investments in agriculture and accelerated the flow to the cities. In the urban
sector, urban housebuilding has not only fallen badly short of planned growth
(25,000 urban units were completed during the 1970-74 Plan period as against
a target of 50,000); it has also concentrated on relatively high minimum standards
and has consequently catered almost exclusively to middle and upper income
groups. The resulting shortage of low-cost accommodation has led to the
exploitation of the poor by owners of existing housing, together with the



- 9-
creation of shanty towns and illegal, temporary squatter settlements which have
in the past been the object of demolition by the authorities without provision
of alternative shelter. In connection with this project, NCC has agreed to
refrain from substantial demolition of squatter settlements, subject to government
policy, which is now in accord with this agreement. (See section 3.02 of draft
Project Agreement and section 3.07 of draft Credit Agreement.) Meanwhile, urban
employment has been directed towards the expansion of relatively high-wage formal
sector employment, and has neglected the informal sector, the main source of
earning opportunities for the urban poor. This has, in turn, made it hard for
the poor to afford shelter and services.
27.       Finally, the decision to divert away from the municipalities their
main source of revenue, the Graduated Personal Tax - and its eventual aboli-
tion in 1973 - has left the large towns in a difficult financial position,
and hence even less able than they might otherwise have been to implement
new development schemes aimed at helping the urban poor.
New Policy Directions
28.       In its 1974-78 Development Plan, the Government of Kenya proposes
a three-pronged approach involving: (a) vigorous rural development programs
designed to reduce the rate of rural-urban migration by increasing rural
employment and incomes and by improving basic infrastructure (roads, irriga-
tion, water supply, electricity, etc.) and social services, notably health
and education; (b) a new effort to divert urban growth from the large cities
to smaller urban centers; and (c) a direct attack on substandard living
conditions in major urban centers, in particular through expanded provision
of low-cost shelter and related infrastructure.
29.       The new Plan acknowledges the failure to complete sufficient low-cost
units, and proposes to concentrate the efforts of the National Housing Corpora-
tion (the executive arm of the Ministry of Housing) and local authorities on
this subsector during the 1974-78 Plan Period. A five-year target of over
71,000 units affordable by low income households (defined as those with
monthly incomes of $70 or less) is proposed, at a total cost of $73 million out
of overall spending on urban housing, public and private, of $220 million.
30.       Major extensions of urban water supply and sewerage services are
also proposed, mainly in Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisimu, Thika and Nakuru. These
services are meant to be self-financing, and charges are to be established
to reflect the long run economic costs.
Nairobi
31.       Nairobi, the capital and economic center of Kenya, presents two
faces to the world. The tourist is struck by the modern central city



- 10 -
and wealthy suburban area, with a relatively impressive level of affluence
and urban services. The other face of the city,rarely seen by outsiders,,
shows squatter settlements of severe poverty, gross overcrowding and an
almost total lack of services or tolerable habitation. This already sharp>
dichotomy is likely to be further exacerbated by the continuing growth of...
Nairobi's population, which is expected to reach nearly 1.1 million by the
end of the decade. A stark example of the extent of the city's housing needs
is provided by the results of a 1971 survey which suggested that fully one
third of the city's then population was living in illegal or inadequate
squatter settlements. Applying this proportion to the 1974 population esti-
mate of 730,000, this gives a current figure of 243,000 people, or about
50,000 households.
32.       This situation stems from the inadequacy of the official response
to the need for large-scale housing construction during the years since
Independence. Approved units built between 1963 and 1972 totaled just over
10,000, only one-ninth of the increase in households over the period. More-
over, such units as have been built have been almost entirely concentrated on
satisfying the needs of middle and upper-middle income groups. Relying
largely on rental and tenant purchase schemes, Nairobi City Council (NCC)
has produced houses whose monthly costs to occupants have been almost invari-
ably far beyond the limits affordable by the poorest 40% of Nairobi's popula-
tion. Over the whole period between Independence in 1963 and 1970, only 3%
of NCC's capital expenditure on housing was used for the cheapest form of
shelter provision - construction of serviced sites on which potential house-
holders could build minimum standard dwellings.
33.       The resulting deficit has been made up by increased occupancy of
existing housing, leading to undesirable overcrowding, combined with the
construction of "unapproved" housing in areas such as Mathare Valley and
Dagoretti, or of temporary structures built each evening and dismantled the
following morning. The 1971 survey already quoted estimated population
densities in Mathare Valley, a community of 60,000 people in 1971 (now
90,000), to have been about 5 people per room in that year. Because these
settlements are composed either of unapproved building by owners of the sites
or of illegal squatting on land not owned by the squatters, access to munici-
DaIly provided infrastructure - social (i.e. schools) or physical (i.e.
3dequate water supplies) - is minimal or non-existent, although an attempt
at upgrading was made in Mathare Valley following the threat of a cholera
epidemic. Further, sewerage services in Nairobi cannot cope with the current
requirements of the city's population. Large amounts of excess raw sewage
are being dumped directly into the Nairobi River thus adversely affecting
down-stream uses including irrigation and drinking water supply. Unless
remedial measures are taken, the situation will continue to deteriorate as
Nairobi's population grows and waste water flow increases.
34.       Finally, Nairobi faces severe financial problems.   These are partly
due to currently low levels of user charges and property taxes together with
heavy arrears; but the most dramatic deterioration has occurred as a result



- 11 -
of the abolition already noted (para 27), the Graduated Personal Tax, in
1973, which accounted for about 50% or ($12 million) of the NCC's revenues.
Both short-term measures and a long-term program to ensure that sources of
funds match expenditure requirements are needed if the city's financial
position is to be rectified (see para. 51).
35.       This is the first Bank Group urban development operation in Kenya.
It is directed specifically towards the provision of low-cost shelter, and
thus to help NCC shift the emphasis of its housing operations away from its
previous almost exclusive concentration on construction of conventional
housing for the relatively well-off towards assistance to the city's poorer
inhabitants through the use of the sites and services approach. Although
the number of units to be provided is not large in relation to total needs,
the project represents a major breakthrough in terms of the NCC's and Govern-
ment's approach to the problem of low-cost shelter; project beneficiaries
will be able to obtain adequate shelter at costs of about one third of previous
housing programs.
36.       Apart from the on-site physical facilities to be supplied, the
project will help finance a major expansion of essential off-site infrastruc-
ture (construction of a portion of the trunk sewerage system together with a
new sewerage treatment plant), and will also promote badly needed organiza-
tional improvements in the system of housing provision through its technical
assistance components. Thus, the aim is to encourage, through an initially
relatively small program, longer-term institution building and larger-scale
development within the sector as a whole.
IV. THE PROJECT
37.       A report entitled "Kenya:   Appraisal of a Site and Service Project",
dated April 14, 1975 (No. 607-KE) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. A Project and Credit/Loan Summary is provided in Annex
III.
Background
38.       The Bank has been discussing Nairobi's urban problems with the
Government of Kenya and the NCC since 1969. Following a number of reconnaissance
and preappraisal missions, the Bank on the one hand and the NCC and the Govern-
ment on the other hand gradually came to agreement on the approach to be
adopted. The proposed project was appraised in June-July with a brief follow-
up mission in October 1974. Negotiations took place in Washington in March
1975. The Kenyan delegation was led by the Honorable Mr. Ngei, Minister of
Local Government.



- 12 -
The Project
39.       The proposed project consists of:
(a) the preparation and servicing of 6,000 lots at Dandora, about
10 km. from the center of Nairobi, to three different levels
of shelter;
(b) the establishment of a materials loan fund, from which allottees
would borrow for materials to build rooms on their lots;
(c) the provision of on-site infrastructure, including roads, water
distribution networks, sewerage, street lighting and hardstanding
for refuse collection;
(d) the construction of community facilities, consisting of primary
schools, health centers, multipurpose community centers with day
care facilities, a sports complex and market areas;
(e) the development of trunk infrastructure, including sewers and
sewerage treatment plants to serve the project and other areas,
together with access roads to the project site.
The project would also help finance technical assistance activities, including
the operating costs of a new NCC Department set up to execute the project, and
the cost of detailed engineering and construction supervision, together with
studies of (i) NCC's housing operations, (ii) preparation of future low-cost
shelter programs in Nairobi and other centers, and (iii) municipal finance
and functions throughout Kenya. Finally, funds would be provided for project
monitoring and a survey of nutrition needs in Nairobi.
Project Execution
40.       Apart from the low-cost housing study and a municipal finance study
to be undertaken by the Government, NCC will be responsible for project execu-
tion. The site and service elements of the project will be undertaken by a
new Dandora Project Department established by the NCC. The Department will
be headed by a Project Manager and will have three divisions - technical,
finance and community development.
41.       The Technical Division will supervise on-site construction, including
community facilities and on-site infrastructure, provide lot holders with
advice on how to build on their lots, and build demonstration units. The
Finance Division will be responsible for all project accounting matters. It
will develop an accounting and financial management system for the project,
and will prepare and submit to the Association and the Bank quarterly financial
reports and independently audited annual project accounts. The Division will
also be responsible for the administration of the materials loan fund. The



- 13 -
Community Development Division will publicize the project, process lot appli-
cations, work with allottees both before and during their occupation of their
lots, and help them to establish community institutions. The Department will
consist of about 13 professionals and appropriate supporting staff. The
Department will be merged into the Council's existing Housing Department
following the reform of that Department in the light of the findings of the
proposed study of Nairobi's housing operations, and the completion of lot
construction under the project.
42.       The Project Manager, Deputy Project Manager and the heads of each
of the three divisions will be appointed by NCC in consultation with the Bank.
(Section 3.01 of draft Project Agreement). The Project Manager will be
responsible to a Council Committee headed by the Mayor and made up of senior
officers of the Council, together with representatives of relevant government
departments.
43.       The sewerage component of the project will be implemented by the
NCC's Water and Sewerage Department (WSD) which is responsible for provision
and distribution of water supply, and the collection and treatment of sewage
for the city. The department is fully capable of executing this component as
it did a satisfactory job in implementing the water supply project partially
financed by a Bank loan (Loan 714 KE). To streamline its operations (parti-
cularly decision making) NCC has agreed to submit to the Bank a plan of
reorganization of the WSD (Section 3.06 of draft Project Agreement).
44.       Although every effort will be made to recruit local staff to imple-
ment the project, it is likely that foreign experts will be needed to fill
some posts in the Project Department, and that consultants will be required
to undertake the studies of NCC's housing operations and of the Government's
future low-cost housing programs. All consultants would be appointed with
the approval of the Association and the Bank. (Section 2.02 of draft Project
Agreement).
Project Standards
45.       The project site layout and components have been designed to standards
which will make housing available at relatively low income levels. As pro-
posed, the project provides a highly economic layout with relatively small
lots, but also gives allottees individual sanitary and water service, together
with an adequate source of finance for the purchase of materials required to
build on their lots. Room has been left within the site layout for expansion
of community facilities as well as some expansion of houses. In addition to
individual water supplies and sewerage connections financed under the project,
lot holders may have electricity installed at their own expense. Lot standards
will be as follows:
Option A: 3,870 basic lots of 100, 120 and 140m 2, with contractor built wet
cores consisting of a w.c. and washroom (capital cost per lot: $870 - $995);
these lots require a monthly income between $40 and 70;



- 14 -
Option B: 1,800 lots of the same sizes and with the same facilities as
Option A lots, but having in addition one contractor-built room (capital cost
per lot: $1,370 - $1,485); these lots require a monthly income between $62
and 92;
Option C: 330 lots with contractor-built wet cores and two built rooms,
including about 30 units built to demonstrate to allottees how they might
consolidate their lots (capital costs per lot: $2,310); these lots will be
sold at market value and the proceeds used to subsidize the two smaller size
Option A lots.
46.       Option A and B lot holders will be given 50 year leases.   Monthly
payments (including mortgage repayments, rates and utilities) have been cal-
culated at range from $11 for the smallest Option A lot to $22 for the largest
Option B lot. Based on these figures, and assuming that a family can spend
roughly 25% of its income on shelter, the cheapest lots are affordable by
households within the lowest quintile on the Nairobi income distribution curve.
47.       Particular care has been taken to ensure impartially in the alloca-
tion of lots (See Section 2.04, draft Project Agreement.) Allocation will be
based on a number of criteria including income levels, residence requirements,
property and family status. The names of applicants, of successful allottees
and of those on the waiting list will be publicized in order to ensure public
confidence in the allocation process. All allottees will be required to live
on their lots, or dispose of them. For the first five years after allocation
of lots, transfers of leasehold rights will be made through NCC in order to
ensure that housing goes to those who need it most. The NCC will then pay prices
which reflect the cost of improvements made (materials plus estimated labor
costs); the lots will then be offered to those next in line on the waiting
list at prices whichi take into account both the mortgage payment and improve-
ment costs. (See Section 2.05 draft Project Agreement.)
48.       In the event of an allottee persistently defaulting on his monthly
payments, NCC will have the right to terminate the tenancy in line with its
existing standard procedures. Lot holders who remain in arrears for more
than six months will be evicted.
Project Costs and Financing
49.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $29.5 million equivalent
net of taxes. The foreign exchange component is about $7.8 million equivalent
or about 26% of the total. The $16 million Bank/IDA financing would cover
just over 54% of total costs, representing $7.8 million of foreign exchange and
$8.2 million of local costs.
50.       NCC will recover the residential costs of the project, including the
costs of water and sewerage services, from beneficiaries through user fees and
rates, and monthly repayments of mortgage and building materials loans. Mortgages
and building materials loans will be repayable at 8-1/2% over 30 years by Option



- 15 -
A lot holders, with a 5-year grace period on the latter, and at the same rate of
interest but over 20 years by Option B lot holders. The 8-1/2% rate of interest,
which is higher than the 7-1/2% rate currently charged by NCC under existing
tenant-purchases schemes but below that normally charged by mortgage companies
(9Z), represents a move towards bringing charges for public housing closer to
those prevailing in the private sector. The differential repayment period for
Option A and Option B lots reflects the need to minimize charges to the poorer
beneficiaries of the project together with the need for Option A lot holders to
borrow more from the materials loan fund than Option B holders, since the latter
will already have one built room while the former will not.
51.       Some costs in respect of community facilities, on-site infrastrucutre
and technical assistance will not be charged to beneficiaries but will be
recovered from NCC's General Fund account. Because of the NCC's generally
difficult financial position, together with the new costs it will bear as a
result of the project, the Government has requested IMF to assist in undertaking
a general study of Nairobi's and other local government's finance and functions
in Kenya. The recommendation of this study will be discussed with the Associa-
tion. Pending the results of this study, NCC and the Government have also
agreed upon a range of immediate measures to improve the Council's financial
position. (See Section 3.02 (c) draft Development Credit Agreement and Section
3.03, draft Project Agreement.) These will include raising real estate taxes,
improvement in the arrears position, increased water and sewerage rates financial
viability of the NCC has been restored.
Procurement and Disbursement
52.       Civil works and supply contracts under the project totalling $12.4
million equivalent would be procured through international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank guidelines. These include the preparation and servicing
of plots, construction of core units and the provision of access roads and
sewerage facilities, except the contracts related to the first phase of 1,000
lots which would be let according to NCC's local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Association. Contracts other than these initial contracts
will be advertised in local newspapers, with notification to embassies. Local
contractors will receive a margin of preference of 7.5% in bid evaluation over
foreign contractors. A margin of preference of 15% or the level of customs duties
or other import duties, whichever is lower, will be granted to domestic manufacturers.
53.       Contracts for the construction of community facilities and temporary
sewerage treatement plant under the project, at a cost of $1.3 million equivalent,
would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with
NCC's procedures which are satisfactory to the Association.
54.       Funds from the credit/loan account would be disbursed over a 5 year
period. The IDA credit would be disbursed first. The credit and loan would be
disbursed against 50% of site preparation, on-site infrastructure, building
materials and trunk infrastructure, 100% of foreign or 50% of local



- 16 -
expenditures for consultant services and 50% of local expenditures of adminis-
trative cost. Because of the need to meet the project's execution schedule,
retroactive financing incurred from December 1, 1974 of up to $300,000 is
recommended to cover work on detailed engineering, the initial costs of the
Dandora Project Department and the Housing Operations Study.
Justification and Economic Benefits
55.       The basic justification for the project is the urgency of the need for
additional provision of low-cost shelter and associated services in Nairobi. In
addition, the project is intended to demonstrate the value of the site and
service approach to the housing shortages in Nairobi and other cities and towns
in Kenya, with the aim of encouraging the development of further schemes.
Furthermore, the project is expected to produce significant improvements in
housing provision at a lower cost to the public sector than has hitherto been
achieved, together with more general, but essential, strengthening of the
financial base of Nairobi and other municipalities in Kenya. Finally, the
site and service element of the project will directly assist 6,000 households
in obtaining shelter, will provide self-help employment opportunities for project
beneficiaries, and will stimulate the construction industry; moreover, by
directing expenditures towards housing for the relatively poor, it will begin
to redress the balance of NCC housing operations towards those who are in the
greatest need.
56.       The off-site sewerage component of the project will not only satisfy
the needs of the project but will also comprise an important part of a first
stage sewerage program to serve other tributary areas in Nairobi. This program
is in line with the planned expansion of the city over the coming years. It
will help serve new housing schemes being supported by other external aid
agencies, and the developing Dandora Industrial Estate which is expected to
be an important source of employment for residents on the project site. In
addition. the sewerage component will significantly reduce pollution in the
Nairobi River, into which large amounts of raw sewage are being dumped at
present. On the institutional side, the project is designed to provide the
basis for the reform of Nairobi's housing delivery system as a whole, and
especially to develop a capacity within NCC to produce adequate low-cost housing,
on which further programs can be built.
57.       The rate of return on the site and service component of the project,
measured in terms of the stream of imputed rents compared to costs, is about
19%.  The sewerage component has a rate of return of 15.5%.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       Drafts of a Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Kenya and the Association, of a Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kenya
and the Bank and of a Project Agreement among the Association, the Bank and



- 17 -
Nairobi City Council are being distributed to the Executive Directors separate-
ly. Also being distributed separately are the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the text of resolutions
approving the proposed loan and credit respectively.
60.       Items of special interest in the project are described in paragraphs
43, 47, 48 and 51 of this report and are reflected in Sections 3.02 and 3.03
of the draft Credit Agreement and Sections 2.04 and 2.05, 2.06(g), 3.04 and
Schedule 2 of the draft Project Agreement.
61.       In addition to the above items, NCC has agreed to refrain from major
squatter demolition (Sections 3.02 of draft Project Agreement and 3.08 of draft
Credit Agreement), to take steps to streamline the operations and management
of its Water and Sewerage Department (Section 3.06 of draft Project Agreement)
and to impose suitable sewerage rates to cover operating costs and debt service
(Section 4.03 of draft Project Agreement). Finally, in view of the special
importance of the Dandora Project Department, Section 5.01(c) of the draft
Credit Agreement provides that the appointment of its senior staff (Project
Manager, Deputy Project Manager and division heads) will be a condition of
effectiveness of the Credit and Loan.
62.       Except as set out above, the draft Agreements conform to the normal
pattern for urban development projects.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit and Loan would
comply with the respective Articles of Agreement of the Association and the
Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit
and the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
April 16, 1975



<I      -            <1                                                 <Rid                                        '4  CCC
g   o   
'-4          0  '0            2"'-C   U-COt-- '0022   fl-or-   O.2,N            200    0102.-,   l'-.--oco      0-20    'C'-", -          O   Cs  
0                2                     202     tOo     C2     -20Th  ..         '"'00: Cr00      CON.,',     .. -C'   0   N      02      '4 00                   0024.
C'.                                        '0
000           -    Cl'    N             *..        NN'0                     .                 ON       t           5-5  8
Cs                                                                                                                     .00, cC55     0g  
-U                                                       022010                        4                 CC       0O    - 0  C
-l   000'..  '4        -
'1<1                                 '-4IC'J                     -1         <RI     .-oo                               2024
Mi                      '--00'N  004-I'--  0100.-C  '0  0.-.                      0200   000       NOO'0        Co       -,o-o-,  0C 0.00        0                 CA CO
08010       -4NC-4   **      -4>             %o':                        '0-4-0'      0           :00      -C                       00.   0
C                          tO                                                                                                                   ,-CCC.Cl080    4    0.
U             81                                          Cl-C                        N                                            0.4. 400.Cl8     00.
-U <I                 <RI <RI     <I        <] <I   '0442C
-ct4  o,     .-.                         '-.1                                                                                                                         V              oo  o
001              fl               *CN-0On  -4OCCC02 -0     80s                              0CC0C'  02C20'SCN  -0        -4'aCo00                              001)40-0 - C
CCOCCC-o         000.-C.             0     ..21(2.-, ('OCr..               NOON,-,  N   *:        40-o'40 *'..s,..,         :  a           '00.-CO0
bC                                                                      00.0 g 22  000    0
-4   e    CCC      0. '4.                 0.0
00     '40  500  1.        0   0    Ct
- 00    0      0   0        0   21)-oCO
'SB       .220,0
000 OCCO    00.            00'000C
go-c 0Cl 'S o 'g
COOC      002    C    -
0    400  N   'OCCO    21.C22'- 0                               'soc   021CC'    NNCCONO               444)CJ--CCC-C Cl 400  0  0.  0  C               Cot
101CC    -40 *4  . .     -4-4  -    . -
0004-Coo      -       -              <l's
2-20   CCo0N    '0 -,        -         4  -4.0 .o
-.                0  '402
02CC                --02
0.                                                4'                                                                                           00   .Cl'4Oj        NCC
CCCC4CP.0.OCO
'C              1                    21         IJ-.J                                    COJ5J                                          0.00   C    C00      Cl C            -
0      '4            Si                                 .1                                                                                0-0    0,,    000.0,200
00                             <KIN-'       -   <Kid                                       tllKttn           <1        -4                 000.0 C   0    0.0,
'C        240t-                        .              .00 '4
1I:     00                                                                NOon:                                                .0.000CC                 ol.
<I                                        - -           20.0   000000       oC                 -4010
C                                                                                                                                               ootooo   0.             00-0,
C                                                                                                           -                                                      OOCC0.CIC'CV
0'                                                                                          -.                                              -CI           C'-)  024            00040
'0                                                N-I          'NI   NI        2040.  00
O              .-                                                                                                                                                        '44.000,    0
-         Cs
     "C'      '0
3    C."'                                                                                                                                         -2  0   C                    000000
-,                       C.            C        C  0
0            .              04   20   0   00  -20
2                                        C"         '00           0             00'    0,0, -4       -,
O            WOS                                                                                              0040004
CCON6CC                CCCI           0           o             Cl -o 0.>   0,  o  CC00,00       .24CC
1                04-4               'Nfl           00                        000,     C
.0                                     .20                     40            -'.5                       oo0. 88       
00     400        0,-.CC           '4--COO      B  B  S'S               00.2
on             0040                    o           -CCC        Coo              0-    20          00
jtOo                    r-        Coot         000               Z-S   55      5                     tOO
Cr000                   0a          0,C        02               00,0,   -2     0   0000        0-4      04
.0.0..                 .-         o   to         E.o             0.0.0  0    Cl,  0  0, -20  00  2  CC'400  0000
OCNN2.                  20          002.0        C.             0 CC. 042       0    00                too
'0                                     0420                    02        .0 1C2           '4      -'o  5'   ->55   '4
050                                                   00         '          oj  00,2   Ifl...-o  0  200.          Q  000CC
Cl     4440                    ClOt      504  -      o0.'O     %   -   000      4,20.0     02
0                     ot00      0      0000        0           C         '0002      -0000     '000.0   '0 'CO  CC   0'00,00     CC
0           0-        '00,00        Ot     o-o  o     00   24.0        0  00       0Cl800     04
OCOt      g      ooto        C             0       oo-o       06        oo   0.  00,,C    000,  0, OCCo          10420,o-'2
S                             0.          CC  0,  2
'4'4C0,     C                                                               0oCC        0-OCCO     0            -0ot 0   CC     0             2C02
04   00.00       0                              0004                              0    CC     0.2 OC            4      00020.   0  000
0000        .0             00     40,      00,00. 4C             000        00-2       ..CC      BC--           05C.0      '400
00   00   CC                   004'   '400                         00   0  0       0-4                          00-0            0
0        0000      00      0,0     '0       C044      0,   5    &o o-    -     00--Cl  0,
"'I,                    0        OttO              0-   0'No      O C'4      0 *04-.C    0.00     0,-C  -.C-t  0    00,
C                 C                  0,00       20      010          0,
2020  005      00.   oC'0C       0.-on     0000      .2   -         -0                       1 202   CO  2
0CC 2    2-o4   0000            .0002   0.0.4N    C   0       0.5            0. 00.0   OCC4.0  CC C'2Cl2
loIs     0  -. 0.2. N     .0040          -                         00 0     20
-   402.      05d-     --CC   000                             .             .204    20 NO   '000,               0'
.000             00       '021,-            0, ho      o    a            0Co'N'4       4  20CC
0104    0,.     CoC04'C         too'        0,   20000       .         -r     .2 021  t                                I
04  0440                                     02  0  0   00   2040      0400   0    .t Ct    &000                 CC  4
OOOC        -5CCl     C   0       00.0  000CC       '0.2  000.04             00-0,-C                  0
.00020   0                                                t                               .o     toC0                   .5  ''t                  S
il  oo       000   o-,-o--.o  Cs             oo-..    -, ooo      ..0.0.,-0         Cl.Co.0          NO Cs.
00---.C  020             20       002   00000        0.0  4-C00,0, 0 200    0,0000CCOO            000,                     p0,Cl
20  '40000  0,   to   00        0')  000000    00           0.              400                0020
00000-.'              0.     00202                               0.00  CC    0042      Ct 00               0    Ct    0
.0.000   0      00   C   00       0000- 4-0                            -    ,            Oot-               0-C      0.0                  -
00          OBO                        g -
00002    0,02  '0    00-                 0-O0.CC0C  001000  CC   0240'    NRltCCO               -s0a     0CCC 40.0,0      2' 02
5<      1<2              04       855    0000           00    0000            0                           0      ON-RI       S
CC     t.0   2    00   CC-C.  Foot' CC          04    02           4    '4'4CCC..      0    CooCO       C.o'C202-.-oSCCC
C  -4C0     0.     z.ro    00000     t.  4  00.200           =0000-0       00  .0 ooto.-o.-t  BoVo'ClO 0-0 CC 5 OC-oC              000,0
00             2104     N    0,CO C 00000      4004  '4200             000   C'     00000       0'..        -t   C00   0      0             -CoO 00
j:co                                                  500             'O555U0U                   .1loo 5 00,0             2                            2
000       4C.-t  00'   0   Ct-'             0000    '440   '0o-Co  20  C   '040000      0040      'o      0.     0.:oo   5055          20' 0.000
.1C                                                                                                           0200     0000.21200
CCOC.i                    0                                 00     t     '00    .0:0000o'C.0CC                      0,
00400            0400          0              Oto                                                          0404
04                   C)           20.C'j  jflJd              ThU-ti
C"-00-0                                                                                                      0
---I-                                     000.0.0.0.                0                             880.000



ANKI X I
Page 2 of 3
AC2D.lEV?)C'C_,,-1A'flRS
CG,OS NATKSA: P:7U2P?G :'i                                               AN1 A- AATP 0? 0 .O -jKl  ,  cc-s anu lt9L  ?r-ces)
ITS  Million                                     -70          __'_-7_          13
GNP at Markeo. Prices          2.290       1(n.0                                                              7 -.
Gross Domestic Investment         99        25.'                           le                7.0             .7
Gross National Saving            ,17        22.6                              .9             1.5           19.3
Current Accnint O-ntance -      - 76       - 3.                                               -              _
Exports of Gnnods, NF3S          688        Jo.; )                                           3.2
imports oa Goods, Nr6S           742        32.4                             ".1           -0.9           - 0.4
OUTPUT, LABO2 FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added                       Labor Force  1/                 V. A. Per Worker
US $ Mln.     %                    Thous.     %                     US $       Index
Agriculture                     5014      31                    4,647      86                     109         36
Industry                       201        13                     9LI                           .1,9126       475
Services                       387         24                     301       6                   1,286    '   29
Unallocated                     520        32                     288       '                   1,8c6       602
1TT105                             ,37      100. D                   300       100
G0VSRIMIlr FINANC3                                         2/
GVrMF; ral Government -                            Central Govsrnment
( T   Mn. )    % of Monetay GDP                    ( b Mln. )            OMonetary GDP
19272/73     1972/7 3i  T19   1 977                             1972 73    19b9-71
Current Receipts                  175.1           32.1       33.0                    149.0          27.3       28.3
Current Expenditure               158.3           29.1       29.2                    139.6          25.6       25.8
Current Surplus                   177              3.0        3.8                      9.4           1.7        2-. 
Capital Sxpenditures                69.7          12.8       11.0                     61.9          il.4        9.9
External Assistance (net)             ..            ..         ..                     22.0           4.0        2.4
MONEY, CRZDIT and PRICZS            196(       1970       1971       1972       197^3      june 1973        June 1974
(MiTllion I  outsaandir,g end period)
Money and Quasi Money                o9         ,76        189        215        2,-''       2fi]             29?
Pank credit tC Public Se': or        -            7         16         27         3a          28              32
Bank Credit to Private Seat[ur       52          67        111        124        157         129             187
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
1966       1970       1971        1972       1973       June 1973       tune 197)j
Money and Quasi Money as %'
of GDP                             22.6       30.6       29.4       30.1       33.3
General Price Index
(1964 = 100) 3/                   100.5      107.2      111.2      118.4      124.6
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                   0.7        2.b        3.7        6.5        5.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector          .           .          .          .           .
Bank Credit to Private Sector         6.9       31.8       27.6       11.7       26.6        12.6             45.0
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange r-ite prevailing during the period covered.
1/ Total labor force includes eSeimaieS of inf'ormal sector employment and se -f-employment; agriculture is
assumed to be the residual emPloyer.   "Unallocated" ccnsists mainly of un-mployed workers seeking their
first 2ob.
2/ Central and local Eavecaxsent only.
3/ GDP deflator.
not h7aic
riot appli cabl,



TRADE PAY1I2NTS AND 5AP1272L F'LYA6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                     M'RA  ;      -`ISE 3iJ0-R S (AVF.AGQ 19oL0-72)
9564    1' L7c  1' 72     1973-                                 US $      inn    X
156  (NTiTas I7T)
EA:po:tLz c0 Goods, NY]       337      173     56-0     685            Dffiee                         i        2J  3
Imports of Goods, Nix         286      525     6 2      742          a-a                               25      7.I
Resource Gap (deficit = -)     T       -5      -72      7-.atrleum Pr                 ts 1/            32     12.14
i,                      6      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3. 
Interest ?a Tle nl s ( not)    . .      ..      ..        ..         iX ;tJ                            6    ~3.1
Workers' Rerritences           ..       ..      ..        .           7n E. A. C. /                    68     26.3
Other Factor Payments (net)   -27      -23     -.4       -iJ7         All other comsuJdities          6       257.
Net Transfers                  30       26               25
Balance on Current Account    ill     _49      -6F      -76                    Total                  259    100.0
Direct Foreign Investment      .        56      i;3      L6        EXTViAL DEBT, DECENDEs 31, 3973
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements             ..       ..      -.        *-                                          US $ Million
Amortization
Subtotal                           25      lr       5 I %0l_: JioSt mici. guaranteed                   40-
Ca    J ia a t t.riLa          ..       ..      ..       ..           -on-guaranteed Private Debt
Other CapiLal (net)                     11        1        1          2otal outstanding & Disbursed          I0t.
Other items rie.3.            -25        8       4         5
Increase in lieserves (        -) _8                     30        DEBE SERVICE RATIO for 19'7'  3/
Gross Reserves (end year)    52.1. 14/ 231.1i  197.0   233.3
Net Reserves (end year)      '1.9 1/ 229.3    19.4.2    229.3         .ublic Debt incl. guaranteed             1..?
an-guaranteed Pri vate Dcbt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            lotal outstanding & Disbursed           T.2
Imports                      2        L 1    98       67
of which:  Petroleum      25       39      57       66
Exports                      13       Lo      51.      62
of wliich:  Petroleum     13       140     51       62
IBKD/iDA LEi;N'G DECEMBER 31, 1971. (Million 11S
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Thirough March 1973                                                                                       IBRD        !DA
US $ 1.00 = K.Sh.   7.1]                                         Outstandinl & Disbursed                   52,3       77.
K E 1.00 = uS $    2.80                                         Undisbursec                               72.        53 (
Outstanding incl. Uncii sbursed          l3 Z 6     .2
Since June 30, 197?
US $ 1.00 = K.Sh. 6.20
yKh z l.o R3 -U   $  ;.'30
Since Januar yl,    78
US $    0.O = K.Sh.  7L1
K b 1.00  UIS $   2.80
: . u.ng exports to E:AC.
2/    Zxcluding petroleum products.
3/    Ratio of Debt Service (excluding notional 1/3 share of EAG debts) t. !7xports of Goods . : Nc:-F.itor 5zrv-coE.
1./   Reserves figures are for 1966.
P,'   Preliminary Figures



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as at January 31, 1975
Loan or                                              Amount (less Cancellations)
Credit #  Year     Borrower  Purpose                  BANK   IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Three (3)loans and nine (9)credits, fully disbursed 32.1
641        1969      Kenya   Forest Plantations        2.6               0.2
185       1970       Kenya   Education                       6.1        2.5
714       1970       NCC     Water Supply              8.3              2.6
224        1970      Kenya   Road Maintenance               12.6         2.5
745        1971      TRDC    Hydroelectric Develop.   23.0               1.5
276        1972      Kenya   Highways                       22.0        10.6
826        1972      Kenya   Nairobi Airport          29.0              17.8
344        1972      Kenya   Agricultural Credit             6.0         4.5
932        1973      Kenya   Highways                 29.0              29.0
946        1973      IDB     DFC                       5.0               3.9
468        1974      Kenya   Population                     12.0        12.0
477        1974      Kenya   Livestock                      21.5        21.5
993        1974      Kenya   Tea Factories            10.4              9a9
1053/537  1975       Kenya   Group Farm Credit         7.5   7.5         7.5
Total                                      139.4 120.2      118.5
of which has been repaid                6.9
Total now outstanding                      132.5 120.2
Amount sold             5.1
of which has
been repaid        4.3                   .8
Total now held by Bank
and IDA                              131.7 120.2
Total .'tidisbursed                         64.9  53.6      118.5
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
B.  Statement of IFC Investments in Kenya as at January 31, 1975
Obligor                       Type of Business       Amount in US $ Million
Year                                                             Loan    Equity  Total
1968 & 1973 Kenya H{otel Properties       Hotels                  5.2     0.7      5.9
1970 & 1974 Pan African Paper Mills       Pulp & Paper           11.9      5.7    17.6
1972        Tourism Promotion Serv.       Hotels                  2.4     -        2.4
Total Gross Commitments                                  19.5     T74     25.9
less cancellations, terminations, repayments & sales 6.2       1.8     8.0
Total Commitments now held by IFC                        13.3     T76     17.9
Total Undisbursed                                         3.0     0.2      3.2



ANNEX II
Page 2
KENYA
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Loan 639 - Highways: $23.5 million Loan of October 10, 1969;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975: Construction is substantially completed except
for two contracts which have been delayed by changes in specifications and
construction standards. These delays required postponement of the Closing
Date from December 31, 1973 to June 30, 1975. There has been a 30 percent
increase above original cost estimates due mainly to design changes.
Loan 641 - Forest Plantation: $2.6 million Loan of November 7, 1969:
Closing Date: December 31, 1975. Progress is satisfactory and disbursements
are proceeding faster than envisaged, and the loan was almost fully drawn
down a year before Closing Date. Planting and technical aspects are satis-
factory. A second phase project has now been appraised.
Credit 185 - Education: $6.1 million Credit of May 20, 1970:
Closing Date:   December 31, 1975.  Construction is proceediag at a slower
rate than anticipated. As remedial action has been taken, it is expected
that all project institutions except two will be completed prior to the Closing
Date. An extension of the Closing Date of about 12 months is likely to be
required in order to complete the two project items lagging behind.
Loan 714 - Water Supply: $8.4 million Loan of November 7, 1969:
Closing Date: March 31, 1976. Good progress has been made on the main pro-
ject items, and water was delivered to Nairobi on schedule in March 1974. A
twelve-month postponement of the Closing Date, however, was required to enable
completion of ancillary items. The Water and Sewerage Department is still
experiencing staffing shortages in its engineering and commercial sections
due to inability to attract and retain staff. The financial results of water
operations are generally satisfactorv and water tariffs have now been increased.
Cost overruns, which are mainly due to local cost increases, are about 23
percent over the appraisal estimates.
Credit 224 - Road Maintenance: $12.6 million Credit of December 28,
1970: Closing Date: June 30, 1975. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
All designated posts in the MOW have been filled. Most of the equipment has
been installed and the Highway Training Center is operational.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they
do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses
in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan 745 - Kamburu Hydroelectric: $23.0 million Loan of June 7, 1971:
Closing Date: June 30, 1975. The project was commissioned in August 1974 and
there are only a few minor details outstanding. Cost escalation was 7%,
principally the result of consultancy fees, a sales tax that was imposed and
currency fluctuations. The Closing Date of June 30, 1975 may have to be
postponed because some retention monies are not due until after that.
Credit 276 - Highways: $22.0 million Credit of June 5, 1972:
Closing Date: March 31, 1976. This project, which is jointly financed by
a Swedish Credit of $6.0 million, made a slow start due to delays in obtaining
governmental approvals to issue tenders. Because of high bid prices, total
estimated cost of the project may exceed the appraisal estimates by 15 per-
cent.
Loan 826 - Nairobi Airport: $29 million Loan of June 2, 1972:
Closing Date: December 31, 1976. The major contracts have been awarded,
and work has commenced. Inadequate supervision by the key contractor and
administrative delays by the Government have led to delays in the physical
execution of the project. Financial and organizational problems persist.
There is likely to be a cost overrun of about $10.5 million.
Credit 344 - Agricultural Credit: $6.0 million Credit of
November 29, 1972: Closing Date: June 30, 1976. The Agricultural Finance
Corporation has started a second phase of lending operations, following the
completion of the first under Credit 105. Progress is proceeding well, and
disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan 932 - Highways: $29.0 million Loan of September 6, 1973:
Closing Date: December 31, 1977. This loan was made effective on November 9,
1973. Some of the bids have been invited, but progress is at least twelve
months behind schedule.
Loan 946 - Industrial Development Bank: $5.0 million Loan of
November 29, 1973: Closing Date: March 31, 1976. Sub-projects totalling
$3 million has been approved. The Loan is expected to be fully committed this
year.
Credit 468 - Population: $12.0 million Credit of April 1, 1974:
Closing Date: June 30, 1980. This Credit became effective on July 31, 1974.
There are a few months delay in the construction schedule. Progress on other
components are satisfactory.
Credit 477 - Livestock: $21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974:
Closing Date: December 21, 1980. This credit was declared effective on
December 2, 1974. Work on the ranching component is now proceeding, but
disbursements are behind schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Loan 993 - Tea Factories: $10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974:
Closing Date: June 30, 1980. This loan became effective September 23, 1974.
Contracts for four tea factories have been let.
Credit 537 /Loan 1093 - Group Farms Rehabilitation Credit and Loan
of March 27, 1975: Closing Date: December 31, 1981. This loan is not yet
effective.



ANNEX II
Page 5
C. Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Guaranteed by Kenya, Tanzania
and Uganda as at January 31, 1975
(US$ 'million)
Amount less cancellations
Loan #    Year    Borrower   Purpose                       Bank    Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed.                               75.0
638 EA     1969   EAHC       Harbours                      35.0          6.8
674 EA     1970   EARC       Railways                      42.4         17.3
675 EA     1970   EAPTC      Telecommunications            10.4           .6
843 EA     1972   EADB       Development Finance            8.0          7.7
865 EA     1972   EAHC       Harbours                      26.5         19.6
914 EA     1973   EAPTC      Telecommunications            32.5         22.4
Total                                           229.8        74.4
of which has been repaid                       28.5
Total now outstanding                           201.3
Amount sold:                      24.4
of which has been repaid       24.4            0
Total now held by Bank                          201.3
Total undisbursed                                74.4



ANNEX II
Page 6
D.   East African Community
Loan No. 674 EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million Loan of May 25,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1976
This Loan was suspended on February 13, 1975. The reasons for
suspension and conditions for lifting the suspension are discussed in
para. 14 of this report.
Loan No. 638 EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million Loan of
August 25, 1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1975
The Harbours Corporation is in a healthy cash position although
there have been problems in transferring funds from regional offices to
headquarters.   Damage to a partially completed pier has delayed project
implementation. It is now expected that the construction will finish in
mid-1975. Legal questions resulting from the damage are under study by
the Government.
Loan No. 865 EA - Third Harbors Project: $26.5 million Loan of December
18, 1972; Closing Date - June 30, 1976
A delay of six months is expected in completing civil works under
this Project. Cost overruns have been experienced in some project items.
The situation is under study by the Corporation, which will shortly issue
a plan for speeding implementation.
Loan No. 843 EA - East African Development Bank Project: $8.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1972; Closing Date - May 31, 1976
Operations of the Bank have been decentralized with a resulting
strengthening of the Bank's supervisory capability. Management problems
associated with decentralization have largely been rectified so that the
pace of bank operations is expected to quicken in FY76. Nearly $6.5 million
of the Loan has been co-mitted.
Loan No. 675 EA - Second Telecommunications Project: $10.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1975
Problems within the EAC have only marginally affected the Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation due to the considerable existing
decentralization of operating authority. Deterioration of the corporate
cash position and rate of return has been slight in comparison to other
Community Corporations; the situation will be improved by a pending rate
increase.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5 million Loan
of June 22, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Procurement is generally on schedule with $20 million committed
and the balance near tender stage. All major items are expected to be
completed by mid-1975, except two microwave links which, due to long lead
time for delivery, will be delayed by 18 months.



ANNEX III
Page 1
KENYA - NAIROBI SITE AND SERVICE PROJECT
Project and Credit/Loan Summary
BORROWER            Republic of Kenya
AMOUNT              Credit of $8.0 million;
Loan of $8.0 million
TERN                Credit - Standard
Loan - Repayment over 25 years including 4 years grace
at 8.5% a year.
RELENDING           Apart from about $0.25 million which will be
retained by the Government for technical
assistance activities, the proceeds of the
credit and loan will be onlent by the Govern-
ment to the Nairobi City Council (NCC) on the
same terms as the Bank Loan; NCC will onlend
funds in respect of mortgages and materials
loans to lot holders at 8-1/2% per annum, and
over a period of 20 or 30 years depending on
lot standards.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION         The proposed project will provide 6,000
serviced lots for self-help housing, together
with related on-site infrastructure and
community facilities; finance for materials
loans to enable allottees to construct self-
help dwellings on their lots; trunk sewerage
to serve the project site and other areas in
Nairobi, and technical assistance comprising:
the operational costs of a new NCC Department
set up to implement the project; studies of
(a) Nairobi City Council's housing operations
and ways to improve them, (b) preparation of
future site and service and squatter upgrading
projects in Nairobi and other cities and
(c) municipal finance in Kenya; (d) design and
engineering works; (e) project monitoring and
evaluation; and (f) a pilot study of nutrition
needs in Nairobi.



ANNEX III
Page 2
US$ '000
ESTIMATED COST                                      Project Cost
Local     Foreign
Component                     Costs      Costs       Total
Site Preparation                305        27          332
On-site Infrastructure        2,250       750        3,000
Community Facilities            824       275        1,099
Core Units                    3,209     1,070        4,279
Materials Loans Fund          3,205         -        3,205
Trunk Infrastructure          4,092     1,965        6,057
Technical Assistance          1,304     1,336        2,640
Contingencies                 6,541     2,386        8,909
Total                   21,731     7,790       29,521
FINANCING PLAN:
US $ million
IDA     IBRD    Government of Kenya
8.0      8.0             13.5
27%      27%              46%
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:       IBRD FISCAL YEAR
(US$ million)
1976   1977   1978    1979    1980
Anually         3.00   4.80   4.70   2.60    0.90
Cumulative:     3.00   7.80  12.50  15.10   16.00
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS:      Except for the first phase of 1,000 lots, major
civil works totaling $12.4 million equivalent
would be procured by international competitive
bidding with a 7.5% margin of preference for
local contractors. A margin of preference of
15% or the level of customs duties or others
import duties, whichever is lower, will be
granted to dome-tic manufacturers. Contracts
for construction of community facilities
and temporary sewerage treatment plant, totaling
$1.3 million equivalent, would be procured in
accordance with NCC guidelines acceptable to
the Association. Retroactive financing not
exceeding $300,000 for consultant services
would be financed from the proceeds of the Credit.



ANNEX III
Page 3
RATE OF RETURN:           Site and Service component:    19%
Off-site sewerage component:   15.5%
APPRAISAL REPORT:         Report No. 607-KE dated April 14, 1975.
MAP:                      A map of the proposed project area is attached
(IBRD 11069).



IBRD 11069
_WrEM8MR 1974
K E N Y A                                                                         t    BP   110A
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT                                                                                /
NAIROBI: LAND USE                                                                             \ Wac-
LOCATION OF PROJECT SITE                                                                M-NY>A
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL  c'  PROJECT SITE                    FORESTS                       /               o o 1i
s   MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL   INDUSTRIES              |--.j....  CENTRAL AREA
HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL     PUBLIC AND PRIVATE OPEN SPACES  OTHER;INCLUDING AGRICULTURAL   AREA OF MAP
_7 1                                                        = j   AND UNDEVELOPED LANDS          >        LiZi's.
PUBLIC AND GOVERNMENT                                          -                  Lto
LAND AND BUILDINGS                                                        -   \L       I  0Lomt
TANZANIA                INO/AN
EXISTING ROADS                 TRUNK SEWER AND S.T.W                         N.OIn  a      IV 4,
l- _  I I  EXISTING RAILWAYS    -      POSSIBLE lt STAGE
,,........  ,TREATMENT WORKS      To Th,k1e   The bS drda  h.,,,nt ,  h. ap do not
CITY BOUNDARY                                                          Wn,idBankand Vt a//REbth e
\f  -X<\//t-ss                  r 1s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N SStS ~ ~ .k dil riw,
D SERVI                               %,%~~~~~~~~~~~  Rc
_g Q \\s \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t ~~~~~-----Y
..... t', , , , S   S/"K".t'"                                                   0 MombosoKILOMETERS10
-'.'.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O.S 
To Moan/toot~ ~~~K L0M TE 



