CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 543 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Site and Service Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 6, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 543 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Site and Service Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 6, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 6, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association and the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
by extending, respectively, the Credit as hereinafter provided and a loan of eight
million dollars ($8,000,000); and
(B)   The Project will be carried out primarily by the Nairobi City Council
(hereinafter called the NCC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assist:.ice, the Borrower will make available to NCC a portion of the proceeds
of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith among the Association, the Bank and NCC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.0 1. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Dandora Project Department" means the department within the NCC,
more fully described in Section 3.01(a) of the Project Agreement, which will have
line responsibility for carrying out Part A of the Project and supervising the studies
described in Parts C(2)(c) and C(2)(d) of the Project;


﻿4
(b)   "Housing Department" means the department, or other unit, within
NCC which is at the time responsible for housing operations;
(c)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated
March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental
to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(d)   "Materials Loan" means the loan to be offered Tenants for building
materials described in Sections 2.05(b) and 2.05(c) of the Project Agreement;
(e)   "NCC" means tie Nairobi City Council, the government of the
Municipality of Nairobi;
(f)   "Option A," "Option B" and "Option C" refer to the options of
different levels of housing (described in Part A(2) of the Project) to be offered
Tenants;
(g)   "Plot Loan" means the loan to be offered Tenants to pay for their
plots described in Sections 2.05(e) and 2.05(f) of the Project Agreement;
(h)   "Project" or references to "Parts" thereof refers to the project and
parts thereof described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(i)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association,
the Bank and NCC in respect of the Project of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time;
(j)   "Project Manager" means the head of the Dandora Project Department;
(k)   "Project Site" means an area of about 218 hectares in the Dandora
area of Nairobi within a tract of land bounded by the Komo Rock Road, the
Nairobi-Thika railroad right of way and the Nairobi River Valley where the NCC
proposes to construct the site and service scheme described in Part A of the Project;
(1)   "Section" means a section of the agreement in which such term
appears;
(m)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NCC pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time;


﻿5
(n)   "Tenant" means a person or persons who obtain rights of tenancy
on an Option A or Option B plot in the Project Site;
(o)   the sign "" means pound, equal to twenty Kenya shillings; and
(p)   expressions in the masculine gender include the feminine gender.
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 1985 and ending April 15, 2025, each installment to and including


﻿6
the installment payable on April 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such princiPal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower (i) shall carry
out Parts C(2)(a), C(2)(b) and C(3) of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and services required
for the purpose; (ii) shall cause NCC to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, (iii) shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable NCC to perform such obligations, and (iv) shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
relend the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn for Parts A, B, C(1), C(2)(c), and
C(2)(d) of the Project, and shall lend, or cause to be lent, such additional amounts
as are required to complete Parts A and B of the Project to NCC under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and NCC and such other
agreements as may be required, in each case under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association and which shall include the following:
(i)         Proceeds of the Credit withdrawn for such purposes and lent
to NCC shall be repayable over 25 years, including a grace period
of four years, at eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) interest;
and
(ii)        Funds lent, or caused to be lent, by the Borrower to NCC for
Parts A and B of the Project shall be repayable over 25 years
at six and one-half per cent (6-1/2%) interest.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and shall cause the rights of any lender party to such other agreements,
if any, to be exercised, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower


﻿7
and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof, and
shall not suffer any such other agreement(s), or any provision thereof, to be
assigned, amended, abrogated or waived.
Section 3.02. In order to insure the financial viability of NCC (and to provide
for the long-term financing of other municipalities), the Borrower shall:
(a)   carry out the study described in Part C(2)(a) of the Project, pursuant
to terms of reference acceptable to the Association, with the assistance of the
International Monetary Fund or experts acceptable to the Association;
(b)   consult with the Association at the tirie of completion of such study
with a view to determining the most fair, efficient and effective actions to be
taken to provide municipalities with the funds they require; and
(c)   provide NCC, or enable NCC to provide itself, with funds adequate
to meet its reasonable recurrent and development expenditures until such time
as NCC, through the implementation of the results of the study referred to in
the preceding paragraph (a) or otherwise, no longer requires such assistance.
Section 3.03. In order to assist it in carrying out the study described in
Part C(2)(b) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ experts whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such study shall be completed by June 30, 1976, or such later date
as the Association may approve.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall monitor the implementation of, and
evaluate, the Project. The scope and duration of such evaluation shall be acceptable
to the Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, terms of reference, reports and contract
documents for Parts C(2)(a), C(2)(b) and C(3) of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Parts C(2)(a), C(2)(b) and C(3) of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the


﻿8
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning Parts C(2)(a), C(2)(b) and C(3) of the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and xpenditures, in respect of Parts
C(2)(a), C(2)(b) and C(3) of the Project, of tlc departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any Part thereof.
Section 3.07. The Borrower confirms that the policies of NCC set out in
Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement are in accordance with its present policies
and that it will not make any substantial changes in such policies without first
consulting the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all action required on its part, promptly
as required, to aid and enable NCC in fulfilling its obligations under Section 2.13
of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The NCC shall have failed to perform    any covenant, agreement or
obligation of NCC under the Project Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen mwhich shall make it
improbable that NCC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c)   Minute No. 4 of November 27, 1974 of NCC's General Purposes and
Finance Committees, ratified by NCC in its Ordinary Monthly Meeting on
December 3, 1974, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived without the consent of the Association in such a way as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of the Dandora Project Department to carry out the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.


﻿9
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action without the consent of the Association for the dissolution or
disestablishment of the Dandora Project Department or for the suspension of its
operations.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and NCC;
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur; and
(c)   a default shall occur in the performance of any obligation (other than
an obligation to pay monies) on the part of the Borrower under the Loan
Agreement, and such default shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of NCC
have been duly autho;zd or ratified by all necessary governmental action;
(b)   the executicn and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and NCC, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental action;
(c)   the Dandora Project Department shall have been established within
the NCC having the characteristics set out or referred to in Section 3.01 of the
Project Agreement, and the Project Manager and division heads shall have assumed
their duties full time in the Dandora Project Depatment; and
(d)   the execution and delivery of the Loan Agreement on behalf of the
Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
action.


﻿10
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, NCC and is lecally binding upon NCC
in accordance with its terms;
(b)  That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and NCC and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and NCC in accordance with its terms; and
(c)   That the Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower
in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date August 4, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article III of this
Agreement and the provisions of Section 4.01 and Section 4.02 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
P. 0. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya


﻿11
Cable address:
FINANCE
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ Bernard Adundo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eas4ern Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of such
proceeds to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Site preparation,              6,600,000          55%
services, on-site
infrastructure,
core units and com-
munity facilities
(2)  Building materials              2,300,000         55%
loans
(3)  Trunk infrastruc-               4,800,000         55%
ture
(4)  Consultants'                     800,000           100% of foreign
services                                          expenditures or
50% of local ex-
penditures
(5)  Dandora Project                  600,000          50% of local ex-
Department                                        penditures
(6)  Unallocated                      900,000
TOTAL         16,000,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association and the Bank that no proceeds of the Credit and of
the Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which
shall affect the amount of any such taxes included in the cost of any item to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the Association
or the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories 1, 4 and 5 on account
of expenditures incurred after December 1, 1974 in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $300,000.
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn
or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account except under
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit and of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if
the Association and the Bank have, or after full withdrawal of the entire amount
of the Credit, the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit
and of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Association and
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Credit and of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of
the Association and of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures, and


﻿14
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and the Association
and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Association and of the Bank under the Development Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit and of the Loan as in the Association's and the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purposes of the Project are to provide additional low cost housing in
Nairobi and to increase the capacity of the Borrower and NCC to provide additional,
and upgrade existing, low cost housing. The Project consists of the following parts:
A.    Site and Service Scheme
(1)   Residential lots: Preparation and servicing of 6,000 lots of 110 to 160
square meters each, with individual water and sewerage connections,
access to roads, security lighting and refuse collection facilities in the
Dandora area of Nairobi.
(2)   Core and demonstration units: Construction of the following units on
such lots:
(a)   Option A: 3,870 units with sanitary core (toilet and washroom)
only on lot sizes 100, 120 and 140 square meters;
(b)   Option B: 1,800 units with sanitary core and one room on lot
sizes 100, 120 and 140 square meters;
(c)   Option C: (1) 300 units with sanitary core and two rooms on
160 square meter lots, and (ii) 30 demonstration units illustrating
acceptable housing to be built on Option A and Option B lots.
(3)  Materials loan fund: Funding and administration of a loan fund of
£1,500,000 to enable tenants having Option A or B units to borrow
appropriate amounts for building materials required to expand such
units to two rooms through self-help or contracting.
(4)   Community facilities: Construction of community facilities including
six primary schools, two health centers, two multi-purpose community
centers with day care facilities, one sports complex and 400 market
stalls.
(5)   Trunk road infrastructure: Construction of access roads to the Project
Site.
B.    Trunk Sewer Infrastructure: Construction of: (1) a main trunk sewer fifteen
kilometers in length from the Project Site to treatment works, (2) service


﻿16
trunk sewers from within the Project Site to the main trunk sewer, (3) a
temporary waste stabilization pond, and (4) sewerage treatment works with
a capacity of 30,000 cubic meters per day.
C.   Administration and Studies
(1)  Establishment and salary and operating costs support of the Dandora
Project Department within the NCC to implement Part A of the
Project.
(2)  Carrying out the following studies by the entity indicated:
(a)  Functions of, and means of financing, the NCC and other
municipal governments in Kenya (Borrower);
(b)  Ways and means of furnishing additional site and service housing
in Nairobi and at least two other municipalities and upgrading
existing sub-standard housing (Borrower); and
(c)  Scope and administration of NCC housing operations, including
a plan for merging the Dandora Project Department into the
unit which will carry on NCC's general housing operations
(NCC).
(d)  Survey of nutrition needs in low-income areas of Nairobi and
review of the NCC's nutrition program (NCC).
(3)  Monitoring and evaluating the Project by the Borrower.
The numbers given above are approximate. Substantial variations from
the numbers given and changes in the institutional arrangements described
may be made by agreement between the Borrower, the Association and the
Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


