CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1247 RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and
Agricultural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
Dated April 28, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1976, between INTEtNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA (hereinafter
called the Borrower).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gene-
ral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Romania" and "Guarantor" both mean The Socialist Repub-
lic of Romania;
(b) "Foreign Trade Bank" means the Romanian Bank for Foreign
Trade, established by Law No. 16/1968 of Romania;
(c) "DIFCA" means the Department of Land Reclamation and
Agricultural Construction in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Industry of Romania;
(d) "ISPIF" means the Design Institute for Land Reclamation,
established by Decision No. 178/1974 of the Council of Ministers
of Romania;


﻿-3-
(e) "CELIF" means the Central for the Exploitation of Land
Reclamation Works, established by Decision No. 178/1974 of the
Council of Ministers of Romania;
(f) "DGPD" means the Directorate General of Planning and
Development in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry of
Romania;
(g) "Lei" means the national currency of Romania;
(h) "Romagrimex" means the Romanian Foreign Trade Enterprise
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry of Romania, es-
tablished and operating under Law No. 11 of 1971 of Romania, as
amended from time to time;
(i) "Charter" means the Charter of the Borrower approved
by Decree No. 55 of 1970 of the Council of State of Romania, ap-
proved by Law No. 15 of 1970 of Romania, as amended from time to
time;
(j) "BAFI-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to
be made by the Borrower to an Investment Enterprise for an Invest-
ment Project;
(k) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a BAFI-loan;
(1) "Investment Project" means a project for any of the in-
vestments included in Part B, Part C or Part D of the Project
which is to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a BAFI-loan;


﻿-4-
(m) "State Farm" means any Agricultural State Enterprise
established and operating under Law No. 11 of 1971 of Romania,
as amended from time to time;
(n) "Cooperative Farm" means any Cooperative for Agricultural
Production established and operating under a charter approved by
the Second Congress of the National Union of Cooperatives for
Agricultural Production held in February 1972, in accordance with
the principles set forth in Articles 9 and 10 of the Constitution
of Romania, including any subsequent amendments of such charter;
and
(o) "Project Area" means the area described in the first
sentence of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,                                 w


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty
million dollars ($60,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made): (i) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for Part A or Part C (4) (ii) and (iii) of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (ii) on account of disbursements
made by the Borrower under BAFI-loans for technically feasible
and financially viable Investment Projects included in Part B or
Part C (1), (2), (3), (4) (i), (5) or (6) or Part D of the Project;
and (iii) in respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b) On or before each of the semi-annual interest payment
dates specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the
date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time.


﻿-6-
(c) The Borrower may designate the Foreign Trade Bank as
representative of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of para-
graph (a) of this Section and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, contracts for the purchase of equipment, materials
or supplies required for Part A or Part B of the Project and
contracts for the purchase of dairy cows required for Part C
(4)(ii) and (iii) of the Project, selected by agreement between
the Bank and the Borrower, shall be awarded in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.


﻿-7-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate agricultural, engineering, financial and admin-
istrative practices as follows:
(a) the Borrower shall supervise the execution of the Proj-
ect, including the procurement of the goods and services required
therefor;
(b)  the authorized design institutes of Romania shall pro-            g
vide the general engineering services required for the Project;
(c) DIFCA shall:
(i) make suitable arrangements for the procurement
of the goods and services required for Part A
and Part B of the Project;
(ii) make timely arrangements, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, with ISPIF for the supply
of the general engineering services required for
Part A and Part B of the Project, and with the
appropriate construction organizations of Romania
as required for the civil works and the installations
included in Part A of the Project;


﻿-9-
(iii) have overall responsibility for the coordination
of the implementation of Part A and Part B of the
Project and for the activities of the other depart-
ments and agencies of Romania related thereto; and
(d) DGPD shall:
(i) make suitable arrangements for the procurement
of the goods and services required for Part C
and Part D of the Project:
(ii) make timely arrangements with the authorized
design institutes of Romania for the supply of
the general engineering services required for
Part C and Part D of the Project, and with the
appropriate construction organizations of Romania
as required for the civil works and the installa-
tions included in Part C or Part D of the Project;
and
(iii) have overall responsibility for the coordination
of the implementation of Part C and Part D of the
Project and for the activities of the other
departments and agencies of Romania related there-
to.
Section 3.02. (a) For each of the Investment Projects included
in Part B, Part C or Part D of the Project the Borrower shall make
a BAFI-loan to the Investment Enterprise that is to carry out such
Investment Project, for all or part of the cost of such Investment
Project net of interest and other charges on the BAFI-loan.


﻿- 10 -
(b) Each BAFI-loan shall bear interest at a rate which shall
be equal to the interest rate then charged by the Borrower in
respect of loans for the same type of investments, provided, how-
ever, that the first mentioned rate shall not be less than three
percent (3%) per annum; BAFI-loans shall be repaid over such
period, after such grace period, as shall be consistent with the
expected implementation period and yields of such Investment
Project and the repayment capacity of the Investment Enterprise.
(c) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, each BAFI-loan will be made on terms whereby the
Borrower shall have under Romanian legislation, or shall obtain
by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right of the Borrower
to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate
the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, agricultural, financial and
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records. (ii) re-
quire that (1) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the BAFI-loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time
of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability
of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the
case of services, of their quality and the competence of the
parties rendering them and (2) such goods and services shall be
used exclusively,in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,


﻿- 11 -
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents:
(iv) obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the adminis-
tration, operations and financial condition of the Investment
Enterprise; and (v) suspend or terminate the right of the Invest-
ment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the BAFI-loan upon
fiilure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations
uiner its contract with the Borrower.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause adequate provision to
be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
importation into the territory of Romania, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the Project.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE IV
Achievement of the Purposes of the Project
Section 4.01. The Bank and the Borrower agree that, in order
to realize the purposes of the Project, it shall be necessary that:
(a) the irrigation facilities constructed or installed under
Part A of the Project will be operated and maintained by CELIF in
close cooperation with the State and Cooperative Farms within the
Project Area, and the electric power facilities serving the irriga-
tion facilities constructed or installed under the Project will be
operated and maintained by the competent electric power enterprises
of Romania, and all necessary repairs and renewals of such facili-
ties will be made from time to time, all in accordance with appro-
priate agricultural, engineering and administrative practices; and
(b) the Investment Enterprises participating in Part B or
Part C of the Project will be supplied with agricultural technical
and advisory services, seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, agricultur-
al financing and marketing facilities, and other agricultural in-
puts, all as required to make optimal productive use of the
investments made under Part A, Part B or Part C of the Project.
The Borrower shall, to the extent that it is authorized under
the laws of Romania, ensure that the requirements set forth in this
Section will be met.
S


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall manage and conduct its opera-
tions and affairs in accordance with appropriate administrative and
financial standards and practices and in accordance with the Charter.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate ac-
counting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.03. (a) It is not the practice of the Borrower to
create liens as security for debt. Accordingly, the Borrower re-
presents that at the date of this Agreement no lien exists on any
of its assets as security for any debt.
(b) For the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, a lien
shall be created on any of the Borrower's assets as security for any
debt, the Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create the lien, such lien
will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to
the Bank, and (ii) if the lien shall be created by law, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory
to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
Section 5.04. The Bank and the Borrower agree that in carrying
out the provisions of this Agreement the Borrower shall take such
measures as shall be necessary according to the State Plan of
Romania and the applicable laws in order to achieve the purposes of
the Project.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Cooperation and Information
Financial Data
Section 6,01. The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To
that end:
(a) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time at the
request of either party exchange views through their representatives
with regard to the progress of the Project, the benefits derived
from the Project, the performance of their respective obligations
under the Loan Agreement, the fulfillment of the requirements set
forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan, and the Borrower shall enable the
Bank's representatives to exchange views with representatives of
DIFCA, CELIF, DGPD, the Investment Enterprises and the other agen-
cies concerned of Romania with regard to the Project, the benefits
derived from the Project, and the fulfillment of the requirements
set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
(b) the Borrower shall obtain from DIFCA, DGPD, the Invest-
ment Enterprises and the other agencies concerned of Romania, and
furnish to the Bank, upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and the material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower
shall agree;


﻿- 16 -
(c) the Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the
cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan or any BAFI-loan, and to disclose the use
thereof in the Project; and (ii) shall furnish to the Bank within
forty-five calendar days after each calendar quarter a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall
agree, on the progress of the Project during such quarter;
(d) the Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
visit and examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan or any BAFI-loan, the facilities and construction sites in-
cluded in the Project and the records and documents relating to
the Project of DIFCA, DGPD, the Investment Enterprises and the
other departments or agencies of Romania responsible for the
Project or any part thereof;
(e) the Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank not later than
five months after the end of each of its fiscal years, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of in-
come and expenses and related statements, as agreed between the Bank
and the Borrower), and until the completion of the Project certified
copies of its records referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section
recording the cost of the Project, for such fiscal year submitted to
an independent audit conducted, in accordance with appropriate audit-
ing principles consistently applied, by the Ministry of Finance of
Romania, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditor, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank and the Guarantor shall agree;
and (ii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
before-mentioned financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request; and


﻿- 17 -
(f) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time furnish
to each other such additional information as the other party shall
reasonably request with regard to the progress of the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the BAFI-loans, the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds, the operations,
resources and expenditures of DIFCA, CELIF, DGPD and the Investment
Enterprises, the benefits derived from the Project and the general
status of the Loan.
Section 6.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere with, the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof or
the performance by either party of its obligations under the Loan
Agreement.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addition-
al condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions, namely, that
the Council of Ministers of Romania has approved the technical and
economic indicators for Parts A and B of the Project and such ap-
proval has become effective.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional mat-
ter, within the meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Condi-
tions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to
the Bank, namely, that the technical and economic indicators for
Parts A and B of the Project have been duly approved by the Council
of Ministers of Romania and such approval has become effective.
Section 7.03. The date July 27, 1976, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12,04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Banca pentru Agricultura si
Industrie Alimentara
Strada Smirdan No. 3
Bucharest, Romania
Telex No.:
AGROBANK
11622


﻿-20-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA
SI INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
By /s/ Corneliu Bogdan
Authorized Representative


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment, ma-             28,700,000         100% of foreign
terials and                                  expenditures and
spare parts for                               100% of local
Part A of the                                 expenditures
Project                                       ex-factory
(2) Imported dairy             11,000,000         100% of foreign
cows for Part                                expenditures
C (4) (ii) and
(iii) of the
Project
(3) Disbursements               7,500,000         25% of amounts
under BAFI-loans                             disbursed by the
other than for                               Borrower
Part C (4) (ii)
and (iii) of the
Project
(4) Interest and               10,800,000         Amounts due
other charges
on the Loan
accrued on or
before June 14,
1981
(5) Unallocated                 2,000,000
TOTAL      60,000,000


﻿- 22 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for
goods or services supplied from the territory and in the currency
of any country other than Romania; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of Romania and for goods and services supplied from the
territory of Romania.
3.   The disbursement percentages applicable to Categories (1) and
(2) have been calculated in compliance with the policy of the Bank
that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account of pay-
ments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, Romania on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall af-
fect the amount of any such taxes included in the cost of any item
included in Categories (1) and (2) and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cor-
respondingly adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such item.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawal shall be made in respect of:
(a) disbursements made under BAFI-loans, and other expendi-
tures incurred, prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) any BAFI-loan for an Investment Project included in Part
B or Part C (1), (2), (3), (4) (i), (5) or (6) of the Project whose


﻿- 23 -
estimated aggregate cost shall exceed the equivalent of
Lei20,OOO,OOO, or any BAFI-loan for an Investment Project included
in Part D of the Project, unless the Bank shall have agreed to such
BAFI-loan; when submitting such BAFI-loan to the Bank for its agree-
ment, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, together
with a description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of
the Investment Project, in such form and containing such information
as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree, and the proposed terms and
conditions of the BAFI-loan, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; and
(c) Category (2) unless the Bank shall have approved an ap-
praisal report pertaining to the dairy unit on which the imported
dairy cows are to be utilized, said report to provide a description
of the dairy unit and to be in such form and containing such inform-
ation as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree, and the proposed
terms and conditions of the BAFI-loan, and such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
5.   Each request for withdrawal from the Loan Account shall be
accompanied by a certificate issued by the Borrower by which the
Borrower certifies that the withdrawal is requested on account of
an expenditure required for Part C (4) (ii) and (iii) of the Proj-
ect, or on account of a disbursement made under a BAFI-loan for an
Investment Project (other than for Part C (4) (ii) and (iii) of
the Project), and that the expenditure or the Investment Project,
as the case may be, has been approved by the authority competent to
give such approval under Romanian law; the certificate shall be in
a form agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower.


﻿- 24 -
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of any amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then ap-
plicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
7.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item required for the Project and to be procured in
accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
A6reement is inconsistent with such procedures, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement,
by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in
the Bank's reasonable opinion represents (i) in respect of the im-
ported dairy cows under Part C (4) (ii) and (iii) of the Project
the c.i.f. Romanian port of entry price to be paid for such dairy
cows if their procurement had been consistent with said procedures,
or (ii) in respect of any other item, the amount of expenditures
incurred on account of such item which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to increase agricultural production and the
supply of drinking water in an area of about 65,400 ha of land
situated between the villages of Rasova, Pestera, Ciocirlia,
Cobadin, Chirnogeni, Negru Voda, Cherchezu and Adamclisi in
Constanta District. The Project consists of:
Part A.   Permanent irrigation facilities
Construction and installation of permanent irrigation
facilities adequate to irrigate with water extracted
from the Danube River near Rasova about 45,900 ha
under cultivation by Cooperative Farms (including
plots of agricultural land given in use to members of
Cooperative Farms) and about 19,500 ha under cultiva-
tion by State Farms, and including:
1.   five main pumping stations, four secondary pumping
stations and thirty-nine pressure pumping stations,
including the necessary electric power facilities;
2.   a main canal with a capacity of at least 49 m3 per
second running from Rasova through Baciu Lake to
Hateg, and about 170 km of concrete lined branch
and distribution canals, including the necessary
regulators, bridges, drainage culverts, escape
weirs and drops;


﻿- 26 -
3.   a network of distribution pipes and hydrants neces-
sary to bring the irrigation water to the State and
Cooperative Farms within the Project Area; and
4.   the necessary land levelling and soil erosion con-
trol works.
Part B.   Portable irrigation facilities
Investment Projects for the establishment of on-farm ir-
rigation systems, including portable laterals and sprin-
klers adequate to irrigate an aggregate area of about
31,400 ha, and portable pipes adequate to irrigate by
furrows an aggregate area of about 34,000 ha.
Part C.   Agricultural and Livestock Facilities
1.   Acquisition of transport equipment, tractors, har-
vesters and miscellaneous cultivating, fertilizing
and crop-protection equipment, together with imple-
ments, by or for the use of the State or Cooperative
Farms served or to be served by irrigation facili-
ties constructed or installed under Part A of the
Project.
2.   Establishment, within the Project Area served by the
facilities under Part A of the Project, of a vineyard
covering about 450 ha and an orchard covering about
350 ha.


﻿- 27 -
3.   Construction of a grain silo with a capacity of 44,000
tons near Baneasa.
4.   (i) Establishment, within the Project Area, of eleven
dairy units at least seven of which to be on Co-
operative Farms, each unit to have a capacity of
830 dairy cows.
(ii) Provision of 830 dairy cows for each such unit,
it being understood that all such units will
have in the aggregate at least 4,565 imported
dairy cows.
(iii) Provision of up to 4,565 imported dairy cows
for other dairy units in the Constanta,
Ialomita, Braila, Ilfov, Buzau, Vrancea,
Galati and Tulcea judets.
5.   Establishment within the Project Area of two beef
fattening units, each with a capacity of 3,200
animals on Cooperative Farms.
6.   Construction of a feed mill with an annual capacity
of 140,000 tons, at Negru Voda, consisting of a grain
silo (capacity 57,000 tons), a feed processing mill,
and feed pelleting, batching and storage facilities.
Part D.   Rural Water Supply
Investment Projects for the establishment of drinking
water supply facilities adequate to meet the needs of


﻿- 28 -
seventeen communities located in the Project Area and
including drilled wells, electric pumps, chlorination
equipment, water tanks and water distribution facili-
ties.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
June 15, 1981                                     1,025,000
December 15, 1981                                 1,070,000
June 15, 1982                                     1,115,000
December 15, 1982                                 1,160,000
June 15, 1983                                     1,210,000
December 15, 1983                                 1,265,000
June 15, 1984                                     1,315,000
December 15, 1984                                 1,375,000
June 15, 1985                                     1,430,000
December 15, 1985                                 1,490,000
June 15, 1986                                     1,555,000
December 15, 1986                                 1,620,000
June 15, 1987                                     1,690,000
December 15, 1987                                 1,760,000
June 15, 1988                                     1,835,000
December 15, 1988                                 1,915,000
June 15, 1989                                     1,995,000
December 15, 1989                                 2,080,000
June 15, 1990                                     2,170,000
December 15, 1990                                 2,265,000
June 15, 1991                                     2,360,000
December 15, 1991                                 2,460,000
June 15, 1992                                    2,565,000
December 15, 1992                                 2,670,000
June 15, 1993                                     2,785,000
December 15, 1993                                 2,905,000
June 15, 1994                                     3,025,000
December 15, 1994                                 3,155,000
June 15, 1995                                     3,290,000
December 15, 1995                                 3,445,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiv-
alents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 30 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2-1/2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4-1/2%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                    6-3/4%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                    7-1/2%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment, materials or supplies required for
Part A or Part B of the Project (regardless of whether the goods
to be supplied under such contracts are manufactured in Romania)
shall be awarded under procedures consistent with those set forth
in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Schedule,
contracts for the supply of heifers shall, after solicitation of
bids from suppliers from at least three countries other than
Romania on the basis of bid invitations consistent with the pro-
visions of the Guidelines, be awarded in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraphs 3.3 through 3.10 of the Guidelines.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost of inland freight and other expenditures inci-
dental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or in-
stallation shall be included.


﻿- 32 -
2.   Goods manufactured in Romania may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the informa-
tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such pref-
erence and the following methods and stages that will be followed
in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Romania
if the bidder shall have established to the satisfac-
tion of the Borrower and the Bank that the manufac-
turing cost of such goods includes a value added in
Romania equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods.
(2)  Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Romania.
(3)  Group C: bids offering goods manufactured outside
Romania.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be


﻿- 33 -
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt im-
porter would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered
in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated
bid from group C shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Romagrimex (or such other Romanian
Foreign Trade Enterprise as the Borrower and the Bank may hereafter
otherwise agree) shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the
text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bid-
ding documents, together with a description of the advertising


﻿- 34
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding docu-
ments shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to
the prospective bidders.
(b) Promptly after the bids have been received, Romagrimex or
the Romanian Foreign Trade Enterprise concerned, as the case may be,
shall inform the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective
amounts of the bids.
(c) After bids have been evaluated, Romagrimex or the Romanian
Foreign Trade Enterprise concerned, as the case may be, shall, be-
fore a final decision on.the award is made, inform the Bank of the
name of the bidder to which the contract is intended to be awarded
and the reasons for the intended award and shall furnish to the
Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform Romagrimex or the Romanian Foreign Trade
Enterprise concerned, as the case may be, and state the reasons for
such determination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not with-
out the Bank's concurrence materially differ from those on which
bids were asked.


﻿- 35 -
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
Romagrimex or the Romanian Foreign Trade Enterprise concerned, as
the case may be, shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in re-
spect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform Romagrimex or the Romanian Foreign Trade Enterprise con-
cerned, as the case may be, and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


