CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 543 KE
Project Agreement
(Site and Service Project)
AMONG
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL
DATED MAY 6, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 6, 1975, among INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT       ASSOCIATION      (hereinafter  called  the  Association),
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank) and NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL (hereinafter called
NCC).
(A) WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Kenya (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement but only
on condition that NCC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as hereinafter set forth;
(B)  WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that NCC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set
forth;
(C)  WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and NCC, most of the proceeds of the credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement and the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to NCC on the terms and conditions therein
set forth; and
(D)  WHEREAS, in consideration of the Association's and the Bank's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement,
respectively, with the Borrower, NCC has agreed to undertake the obligations
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement


﻿4
and in the General Conditions (as defined therein) and in the General Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NCC shall carry out Parts A, B, C(1), C(2)(c) and C(2)(d)
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist it in (a) designing and supervising the
construction of the facilities included in Parts A and B of the Project and (b)
carrying out the study referred to in Part C(2)(c) of the Project, NCC shall employ
or obtain the services of consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment or service shall be satisfactory to the Association
and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. In allocating residential plots in the Project Site to prospective
tenants and buyers, and in allocating market stalls, NCC shall employ procedures
acceptable to the Association and the Bank and designed to insure adequate
publicity of each step of the allocation process and random selection of Tenants,
buyers and commercial lessees from among qualified applicants. The term "qualified
applicants" in relation to residential plots, means applicants for plots in the Project
Site having qualifications set out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, except as the
Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree.
Section 2.05. Persons selected to become Tenants of Option A or Option
B plots shall be offered plots in the Project Site appropriate to their financial
position on the following terms and conditions, except as the Association and the
Bank may otherwise agree, and such other terms and conditions as are acceptable
to the Association and the Bank:
(a)   Tenants will be given leases for a term of fifty years which will permit
Tenants to sublet rooms.


﻿5
(b)   Tenants of Option A plots will be offered Materials Loans of about
£240 to purchase materials required to construct two rooms, repayable over thirty
years, including five years' grace as to principal, at 8-1/2% interest.
(c)   Tenants of Option B plots will be offered Materials Loans of about
£120 to purchase materials required to construct one room, repayable over twenty
years at 8-1/2%  interest.
(d)   The Materials Loans will be drawn down pursuant to arrangements
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank. The maximum amount of the Materials
Loan which a Tenant will be permitted to draw down at any time will be the
sum of: (i) £20 plus (ii) the value of building materials which have at the time
been used in constructing a house on his plot.
(e)   NCC will recover from Tenants essentially the following:
(i)         90/ of the total cost of preparation of the Project Site;
(ii)        50% of the total cost of infrastructure on the Project Site;
(iii)       100'X of the total costs of core units and other structures
constructed on plots by NCC; and
(iv)        100Q   of the design and engineering fees in respect of the
foregoing items.
In order to recover such amounts from Tenants, NCC will extend credit to each
Tenant, in respect of his plot, in a principal amount (the "Plot Loan") determined
by prorating, in a manner acceptable to the Association and the Bank, the aggregate
of the foregoing items (i), (ii) and (iv) in respect of all plots prepared in each
phase of the implementation of Part A of the Project among all Tenants on the
basis of the relative sizes of plots, and adding an appropriate amount in respect
of item (iii) to such prorated amount.
(f)   Materials Loans and Plot Loans will be secured by a mortgage of the
Tenant's interest in the plot involved. Plot Loans (i) in the case of Option A plots,
will be repayable over thirty years at 8-1/2% interest and (ii) in the case of Option
B plots, will be repayable over twenty years at 8-1/2% interest. Tenants will repay
Plot Loans monthly in equal installments of principal and interest plus a surcharge
(to serve as a reserve for the benefit of NCC against the risk of default) of 5%
of principal and interest due.


﻿6
(g)   A Tenant will not be granted a lease until he has paid NCC water
and sewerage connection charges in respect of the plot to be leased to him and
a deposit of £20 to secure the completion of the house to be constructed thereon.
On completion of the house in accordance with NCC's specifications for the Project,
such deposit shall be deducted from the outstanding principal of the Plot Loan.
(h)   Tenants will be required to reside on their plots at all times and will
be subject to immediate eviction and termination of their leasehold rights for failure
to do so. The original Tenant of each plot will be prohibited from selling,
transferring or otherwise disposing of his rights to tenancy except to NCC until
the fifth anniversary of the commencement of his tenancy; provided nothing in
this Section is intended to prevent transfer by will or the laws of succession to
the extent the deceased Tenant's successor in interest elects to reside on the plot
involved within a reasonable period of time after a Tenant's death. On the
termination of any tenancy during such five year period, NCC will pay the
terminated Tenant (i) the aggregate amount of principal repaid on the Materials
Loan and the Plot Loan, including the deposit referred to in the foregoing paragraph
(g), if such deposit has been deducted from the principal amount of the Plot Loan,
plus (ii) the value, as reasonably determined by NCC, of the labor utilized in
building the house, if any, on the plot, minus (iii) any amounts the Tenant owes
NCC in respect of the plot and minus (iv) the amount, if any, required to restore
the house to reasonable condition if it has been damaged or subjected to more
than reasonable wear and tear. NCC shall then allocate the reacquired plot to a
new Tenant in accordance with the procedures referred to in Section 2.04 in
consideration of the new Tenant's undertaking to pay NCC the sum of the amount
NCC paid the previous Tenant plus the balance owing on the previous Tenant's
Materials Loan and Plot Loan, in each case at the same interest rate and within
the amortization period applicable to the previous Tenant. The restriction on
transfer referred to above will apply to the new Tenant for the remaining balance
of such five year period.
Section 2.06. NCC shall promptly evict and terminate the leasehold rights
of any Tenant who becomes six months delinquent in the repayment of principal
of, or interest on, a Materials Loan or Plot Loan.
Section 2.07. The forms of all agreements between NCC and Tenants in
respect of plots in the Project Site shall be acceptable to the Association and the
Bank, and any material amendments to such forms shall be subject to the
Association's and the Bank's approval.
Section 2.08. NCC shall sell Option C plots at their fair market value.


﻿7
Section 2.09. (a) NCC undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit or the Loan relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by NCC to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association and the Bank may otherwise agree, NCC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.10. (a) NCC shall furnish to the Association and the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association or
the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   NCC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation
upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's and
the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project, and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association and the
Bank all such information as the Association or the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
Loan so relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   NCC shall enable the Association's and the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment
of NCC related to the Project and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.11. NCC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
NCC shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.12. (a) NCC shall, at the request of the Association or the Bank,
exchange views with the Association or the Bank, as the case may be, with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this


﻿8
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(b)   NCC shall promptly inform   the Association and the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Loan, or the performance
by NCC of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.13. NCC shall take all such action as shall be necessary to acquire,
as and when needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction, leasing and operation of the works and facilities included
in the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NCC
Section 3.01. (a) Part A of the Project shall be executed through the Dandora
Project Department, having, except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the personnel and organization indicated in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
The Dandora Project Department shall be headed by a Project Manager who,
together with the Deputy Project Manager and the heads of each division within
the Dandora Project Department, shall be persons having adequate qualifications
and experience appointed only after consultation with the Association and the
Bank on their qualifications and experience.
(b)   The Dandora Project Department shall report solely to a committee
established by NCC to oversee the implementation of Part A of the Project whose
secretary shall be the NCC Town Clerk and which shall include representatives
of the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Planning, Ministry of Local Government,
Ministry of Housing and Social Services, National Housing Corporation and the
Provincial Commissioner for Nairobi.
Section 3.02. (a) NCC hereby affirms that it is its policy not to engage
in substantial demolition of unauthorized dwellings in areas subject to its
jurisdiction. Accordingly, subject to the Borrower's policies in force from time
to time, NCC shall not damage or destroy unauthorized dwellings or evict the
occupants thereof unless:
(i)        Persons affected by such action are given not less than thirty
days' notice of NCC's intention to take such action, AND


﻿9
(ii)       If the land involved is not owned by NCC, the owner thereof
has requested NCC to take such action, OR
(iii)      If the land involved is owned by NCC, an immediate, essential
alternative public use of the land involved will be undertaken,
OR
(iv)       Tho persons affected by such action are provided with adequate
housing, OR
(v)         The settlement in which such unauthorized dwellings are located
is a clearly extraordinary health or safety hazard when measured
by the conditions prevailing in similar settlements in Nairobi.
(b)   For purposes of this Section, "unauthorized dwelling" means an
inhabited structure, of whatever nature, the habitation of which is illegal or
unauthorized because of the absence of permission to occupy the land involved
from its owner, or other person entitled to its possession, or because of the failure
of the structure to comply with zoning, building or other standards imposed by
law.
Section 3.03. NCC shall take all reasonable action required on its part to
aid the Borrower in meeting the Borrower's obligations regarding the financing
of NCC under Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement and Article
III of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) NCC shall complete the study described in Part C(2)(c)
of the Project not later than June 30, 1976 or such other date as the Association
and the Bank may approve. On the basis of such study, NCC shall prepare a plan
for the reorganization and future activities of its Housing Department and for the
integration into its Housing Department of the Dandora Project Department. Such
-plan shall include provision for the assignment of administrative responsibilities
for Part A of the Project, and staff required to discharge such responsibilities,
from the Dandora Project Department to NCC's Housing Department.
(b)   NCC shall consult with the Association and the Bank in respect of
such plans and shall implement measures acceptable to the Association and the
Bank to reorganize its Housing Department, and redirect its housing operations,
as early as possible but in any event not later than two years after the date of
this Agreement, and to achieve such integration, in each case pursuant to time
schedules acceptable to the Association and the Bank.


﻿10
(c)   Not later than six months after the completion of such study, NCC
shall put into effect a system under which it shall charge occupants of all NCC
housing (including Tenants) appropriate fees on a consistent basis in respect of
administrative expenses of NCC allocable to its housing operations (including the
expenses of the Dandora Project Department).
Section 3.05. Part B of the Project shall be executed through NCC's Water
and Sewerage Department.
Section 3.06. NCC shall, not later than September 30, 1975, or such other
date as the Association and the Bank may approve, submit a plan for the
reorganization of its Water and Sewerage Department to the Association and the
Bank.
Section 3.07. NCC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association and the Bank for, insurance
in connection with the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. NCC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. (a) NCC shall maintain separate accounts and financial
statements (balance sheet, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) in respect of each of Part A and Part B of the Project, and shall furnish
the Association and the Bank copies of suich statements, unaudited, quarterly as
soon as available, but in any case not later than two months after the end of
each quarter, including the last quarter, of its fiscal year. Such statements shall
include a separate accounting of amounts due NCC each month from Tenants and
lessees of market stalls in respect of Part A of the Project and amounts thereof
collected each month. Such statements shall be provisionally audited promptly after
the end of each fiscal year and shall be furnished to the Association and the Bank,
as provisionally audited, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of such year.
(b)   NCC shall: (i) furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year, its unaudited accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements


﻿11
of income and expenses and related statements), including the separate accounts
and financial statements in respect of the Project; (ii) have such accounts and
financial statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association and the Bank; (iii) furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than nine months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association or the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish
to the Association and the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of NCC and the audit thereof as the Association or the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, NCC shall take all measures (including but not limited to adjustments of
its charges for sewerage and waste disposal services) as shall be required to provide
itself with revenues sufficient (i) to cover operating expenses for its sewerage and
waste disposal services, and (ii) to meet periodic repayments and interest and other
charges on long-term indebtedness incurred for its sewerage and waste disposal
services.
(b)   For the purpose of this Section:
(i)         the term "revenues" means all revenues from sewerage services
plus other recurring fees and charges associated with sewerage
services; and
(ii)        the term "operating expenses" means the costs incurred by NCC
in operating its sewerage services, including maintenance
expenses and a reasonable portion, as agreed with the Association
and the Bank, of overhead costs, but excluding depreciation,
interest,  amortization  and   other  charges  on   long-term
indebtedness.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.


﻿12
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, the
Bank and NCC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify NCC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement among the parties hereto
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall
be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand
or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party
giving such notice or making such request provided that unless and until the Bank
notifies NCC to the contrary, all notices, requests, reports and other documents
or information required or permitted to be given, made, or furnished to the
Association and the Bank under this Agreement, or any agreement among the parties
hereto contemplated by this Agreement, may be given, made or furnished solely
to the Association. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿13
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For NCC:
Town Clerk
City Council of Nairobi
P.O. Box 30075
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:
MUNICIPALITY
Nairobi
Section 6.02. Unless and until the Bank notifies NCC to the contrary, all
actions taken by the Association pursuant to this Agreement, including without
limitation the giving of any approvals, waivers and notices, shall be deemed to
be taken in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 6.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of NCC may be taken or executed by its Town Clerk or such other person or
persons as the Town Clerk shall designate in writing.
Section 6.04. NCC shall furnish to the Association and the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person


﻿14
or persons who will, on behalf of NCC, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by NCC pursuant to any of the
provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.05. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL
By /s/ Bernard Adundo
Authorized Representative


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    All contracts for civil works and equipment included in the Project shall
be advertised in at least one English language newspaper of general circulation in
Nairobi, and copies of such advertisements shall, in respect of the works included
in Parts A(l), A(2), A(5) and B of the Project, be transmitted promptly to local
representatives of member countries of the Bank and Switzerland which are
potential suppliers of the goods and services required, provided that advertisement
for the contracts for the preparation of the first 1,000 plots in the Project Site
and for the sewerage works required to service such plots need not be transmitted
to such local representatives. Advertising outside Kenya is not required.
3.    (a) Contracts for the civil works and equipment included in Part A(4) of
the Project shall be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding with local
advertisement in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association and
the Bank. Such contracts shall be grouped in two or three packages so as to provide
the facilities included therein on a schedule commensurate with the population
increase in the Project Site.
(b)   Procurement of building materials by Tenants out of the proceeds of
the Materials Loans shall not be subject to the Guidelines.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿16
2.    Goods manufactured in Kenya may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Kenya if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower,
the Association and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in Kenya equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Kenya.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Contractors
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works included under Categories I
or 2 of the table set forth in Schedule I to the Credit Agreement, the Borrower


﻿17
may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors seeking to qualify for such preference shall be asked to
provide, together with their bids, such information, including details of ownership,
as shall be required to determine whether, according to the classification established
by the Borrower and accepted by the Association and the Bank, a particular firm
or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall
clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be followed in the
evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by NCC, responsive bids
will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
D.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association and Bank
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, NCC shall furnish to the Association and the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications
and other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Association or the Bank shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's and the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, NCC shall inform the
Association and the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts
of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, NCC shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association and the Bank of the name


﻿18
of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association and the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section
2.02(a) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the recommendation for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association or the Bank shall reasonably request. The Association
or the Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform NCC and state the reasons
for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's and the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association and the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Association or the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit or the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower
or NCC shall furnish to the Association and the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Association or the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Association
or the Bank shall reasonably request. The Association or the Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and NCC and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Eligibility Requirements
for Prospective Tenants
in the Project Site
(Section 2.04)
NCC shall take all measures required to insure that Tenants meet at least
the following criteria:
(1)   The income at the time of application of tie Tenant and such members
of his family as will live with him on his plot is between:
(a)   in the case of Option A plots, £14 and £25 per month, or
(b)   in the case of Option B plots, £22 and £33 per month.
(2)   The prospective Tenant has lived in Nairobi for at least two years
immediately prior to his application for a plot and does not own any residential
property in Nairobi.
(3)   The Tenant's family (spouse, if any, or children) does at the time
of application, and will upon allocation of a plot, reside with the Tenant.
(4)   Prospective Tenants will pay NCC the fees for sewerage and water
connection (presently about £7) and a deposit of £20 within sixty days of
notification that they have been allocated a plot.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Organization and Staffing
of Dandora Project Department
(Section 3.01)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Dandora Project
Department shall have the organizational structure and professional staffing
indicated below:
Divisions and Positions                       Number of Staff
Manager's Division
Project Manager                                 1
Deputy Project Manager                          1
Principal Attorney                              1
Technical Division
Chief Engineer
Architect/Planner
Architect
Services Engineer
Surveyor                                        1
Financial Division
Financial Accountant/Analyst                    1
Accountant                                    ( 1*
(I
Community Development Division
Chief Community Development
Officer                                    1
Community Development Officer                   2*
Community Development Assistant               ( 2*
( 4**
*     For three years' service commencing when required.
**    For two years' service commencing when required.


