Initial Project Information Document (PID)
25743
Project Name                Emergency Water Project
Region                      Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                      Water Supply & Sanitation
Theme                       Access to urban services for the Poor (P); Municipal governance and
Histitution building (S)
Project                     P065921
Borrower(s)                 PLO for the benefit of the Palestinian Authroity
Implementing Agency         Palestiniani Water Authority (PWA), Ramallah Office
Contact Persoin Dr. Ihab Barghothi
Tel 972-2-295 9022 Fax: 972-2-298 1341 Email. pwaiib@palnet.cor
Environment Category        B
Date PID Prepared           March 27, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         May 1, 2003
Bank Approval Date         June 24, 2003
Country and
Sector Background          Two and a half years of protracted and often violent conflict have
seriously damaged the physical and institutionial infrastructure in the
West Bank and Gaza, includinig housing, public facilities, as wvell as
vital water, wastewater and electrical infrastructure In addition to the
direct damage to municipal and village distribution networks,
maintenance crews are unable to carry out effective repairs, conduct
necessary routine maintenanice, and the supply of water througlh
tankers is unlreliable due to the closures and curfews imposed by the
Israeli authorities. As a result, reliable and safe water supplies are
severely impacted, and large portions of the population continue to be
without water for extended periods of time. The levels of household
water usage have plummeted, and health risks have increased because
of failed wastewater and chlorination systems
Rationale for
Bank's Involvement          Recognizing the immediate and gatherinig threat to public health
brought about by increased exposure to water- and sanitationi-borlne
disease and increased economic burdeni on households, PWA wvith
support from  the donor and NGO    community established the
Emergency Water Operations Center (EWOC) in April 2002   The
purpose of the EWOC is to assist in responding to the humanitarian
crisis described above through restoration of basic water and sanitation
services in the West Bank In the first six monthls of operation, EWOC
disbursed about $1.15 million for emergency repair work, and an
additional US$4 4 million are available for continlued emergency work,
restocking of supplies and to help improve preparedness.
Beyond the ihmmediate humanitarianl needs, however, the West Bank
continiues to suffer fiom chronic shortages of water, and such shortages
are now becoming more acute as the conflict wears on. To respond to
the acute water shortages in an effective way, PWA is stressing the
need to implement on emer-gency basis a series of high priority
strategic investments (Emergenicy Investmenit Program (EIP)) to drill
wells and install a network of pipelines to convey the additional water



These investmenits are consistent withi PWA's sector strategy and focus
on fully utilizing available water rights to the eastern aquifer.
The proposed EIP is limited to the southerin area of the West Bank due
to restricted access to the western and northeasterin aquifer systems.
The program comprises of the following components. (i) drilling and
equipping 4 new wells in Bani Na'hi area and equipping the existing
East Flerodiani well, (ni) installling five transmission pipeline systems
and related reservoirs to convey the additional water throughout the
southerin area of the West Bank; and (mi) rehabilitating and extending
water distribution networks for high priority municipalities and
villages that are seriously affected by water shortages. This program
has an estimated cost of US$72 million, and is designed and packaged
to allow for different donors to fund various self-standinig packages in
parallel.
Objectives                 The project has been structured to be a self-standinig component of the
larger EIP. The main objective of the project is to contribute to the
alleviation of pressing shortages in water supply services in the
southern area of the West Bank by supporting strategic investments in
water conveyanice and distribution networks.
Description                 The project would finance the following packages-
(1) Supply and installation of electromechanical works for the existing
East -lerodian (EH#2) well includinig well pump, booster pump
and accessories. The estimated cost of this package is US$2.0
million.
(2) Supply and installationi of about 7.5 km of 16-incies diameter
ductile iron water transmission pipeline to convey the additional
water from the EH#2 well to the existing main north-south carrier
The estimated cost of this package is US$2 5 million
(3) Supply and installation of about 1I km of 16-inches diameter
ductile iron water transmission pipeline from existing Halhoul
regional water reservoir (25,000 cubic meter capacity) to KIharas
and Nuba villages. This package includes construction of a 500
cubic meters on-groulid water reservoir near Kharas.  The
estimated cost of this package is about US$4.5 million.
(4) Rehabilitation of existing water distribution networks in Kharas,
Nuba and Tarqumia area  The estimated cost of this package is
US$2.0 imiillionl.
(5) Design and preparation of bidding documents for the Dura and
Yatta   villages'  distribution  networks  for  subsequenit
implementation under future projects The estimated cost of this
package is US$0.6 million.
(6) The project will stipport a techinical assistance package (US$0.9
million) that includes: strengthiening the existing Project



Management Unit (PMU) within PWA to monitor and supervise
project execution, and creating clusters of joint services councils
responsible for operating  and  maintaininig  retail water
distribution throughout the project area.
Financing
Source                     A grant from the Trust Fulid for Gaza and the West Bank
Total Project Cost         The total project cost is estimated at US$12.5 million
Implementation
Implemientation period:    24 months.
Executing agenicy.         PWA
Project adminiistationi
and coordinatiowl          PWA, throughi the existing PMNU would have overall responsibility for
project implemenitation and coordination.  The PMU  would be
strengthened by hiring one project manager, one coordinator, a
procurement officer and an accoulitant to complement the PMU staff.
Moreover, the services of a Construction Manager (CM) will be
required. The CM would be responsible for supervision and reporting
of day-to-day activities of the various contractors, and coordination
with the Israeli authorities to secure permits for timely movement of
contractors, goods and materials to project sites
Sustainability             Sustainability is addressed through the framework of creating clusters
of local joint services couIncils among the mullicipalities and villages
benefitinig from the additional water supplies. Several donors indicated
wililiginess to provide necessary technical assistance to help create
such local capacity to operate and manage retail services to the
consumers. In addition, the creation of these clusters will facilitate tile
establishment of a regional utility planied for the long-term, as local
conditionis improve.
Environment Aspects:       The  project trigger the  Environmental Assessmenit Safeguard
Operational Policy 4.01. No major negative environmenital impacts are
envisaged since the activities financed support rehabilitation and
improvements of infrastructure service delivery. Potential negative
impacts are localized and limited in nature, and to this effect, an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) will be prepared.
Contact Point:
Task Manager
Suhail Jme'an
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone + 1 202 473-2991
Fax: +1 202 477-1998
For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C 20433



Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax (202) 522-1500
Web http 11 www worldbank org/rnfoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be
necessarily included in the final project.



