                                                    Documentof
                                                  The WorldBank
                                           FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY




                                                                                       ReportNo: T7597 GZ




                              TECHNICAL ANNEX FOR A PROPOSEDGRANT


                                              OF US$12.5 MILLION


                                                          TO


                                             WEST BANK & GAZA


                                                      FORAN



                                       EMERGENCYWATER PROJECT




                                                    July 7,2003




This document hasa restricteddistribution andmay be usedby recipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. I t s contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankauthorization.

             CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
              (Exchange rate as of June 2003)
        Currency Unit:New Israeli Sheqalim(NIS)
                      US$1 =NIS 4.35

             WEIGHTSAND MEASURES
           1meter (m)                      3.281 feet (fi)
      1kilometer (km)            --        0.621 miles (mi)

                       FISCALYEAR
                  January 1to December 31

        ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
AFD           FrenchDevelopment Agency (Agence Francaise de De'veloppement)
C M           Construction Manager
CMPH          Cubic meters per hour
DFID          Department for InternationalDevelopment (UK)
EH#2          EastHerodian Well #2
EIP           Emergency Investment Program
EMP           Environmental ManagementPlan
EMRSP         EmergencyMunicipal ServicesRehabilitation Project
EQA           Environmental Quality Authority
ERSP          EmergencyResponseProgram
ESSP          Emergency Services SupportProject
EWOC          EmergencyWater Operations Center
EWP           EmergencyWater Project
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GNI            Gross NationalIncome
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
SWC            Joint Water Committee
LCBS          LeastCost BasedSelection
Ycld           liter per capita per day
M C M          Million Cubic Meters
MOF            Ministry of Finance
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
OP 8           Operational Policies
PA             Palestinian Authority
PLO            PalestineLiberation Organization
PMU            Project ManagementUnit
PWA            PalestinianWater Authority
QC             Qualificationof Consultant
QCBS           Quality and Cost BasedSelection
SAWSIP         SouthernArea Water and SanitationImprovementProject
TFGWB          TrustFundfor GazaandWest Bank
USAID          UnitedStates Agency for International Development
WBG            West Bank and Gaza
WHO            World HealthOrganization
WSSP           Water and Sanitation ServicesProject

   Vice President:                   Jean-LouisSarbib
   Country Director:                 NigelRoberts
   Country Coordinator:              Nicholas Krafft
   SectorDirector:                   EmmanuelForestier
   SectorManager:                    FrancoiseClottes
   Task Manager:                     Suhail Jme'an

                                                                                          FOROFFICIALUSEONLY


                                              EMERGENCYWATER PROJECT

                                                         TECHNICALANNEX

                                                              Table of Contents




     SECTION    A. BACKGROUND STRATEGY........................................................................................
                                      AND                                                                                                                   1
           Impactof the Crisis.......................................................................................................................       1
           TheWater and Sanitation Sector.....................................................................................................              2
     SECTION     B. BANKRESPONSE STRATEGY ................................................................................
                                             AND                                                                                                            7
     SECTION C. DETAILEDPROJECTDESCRIPTION.................................................................................. 9
           Objectives and Components .......................................................................................................                9
           Major Benefits and Risks..........................................................................................................              12
     SECTION D. STUDIES      &TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                       .............................................................................     14
     SECTION E. INSTITUTIONAL .....................................
                                       ARRANGEMENTSPROJECT        &                  IMPLEMENTATION                                                        14

           Financial Management., ............................................................................................................
           Procurement Arrangements ......................................................................................................                 15
                                                                                                                                                           18
           Disbursement ............................................................................................................................       21
     SECTION    F. FINANCIALAND ECONOMICJUSTIFICATION                             ....................................................................     22
     SECTION     G. ACTION PLAN............................................................................................................                22



     ANNEXES:

     ANNEx1: LOGICAL         FRAMEWORK KEYPERFORMANCE
                                                   AND                                        INDICATORS            .....................................  23
     ANNEX2: PROJECTCOSTSANDFINANCING                              .................................................................................. 25
     ANNEX3: SELECTED WATER SUPPLY. POPULATIONANDPOVERTY                                                   DATA       .................................... 26
     ANNEX4: PROJECTPROCESSINGSCHEDULE ..................................................................................                                  31




     Map No. IBRD 32167
                .
 This document has a restricteddistribution andmay be usedby recipients only in
Ithe performanceBank    of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
 without World               authorization                .       .


                                              WEST BANKAND GAZA

                                        EMERGENCYWATER PROJECT

                                                 TECHNICAL ANNEX



SECTIONA. BACKGROUNDAND STRATEGY

Impactof the Crisis'

1.        The protracted and often violent struggle between Israelis and Palestinians over the last 30
months'-a      struggle that has come to be known as the Second Palestinian Intifada-has                       brought the
Palestinian economic recovery that began in 1998 to an abrupt halt. The economy has shrunk by half,
with gross national income (GNI) losses exceeding US$5.4 billion (the equivalent of one year of wealth
creation), and lost investment opportunity standing at about US$3.2 billion. Real private gross domestic
product (GDP) measuredat factor cost has declinedby almost 30 percent, the private sector's contribution
to the economy has declined from 88 percent in 2000 to 61 percent in 2002. Raw physical damage now
exceeds US$700million.

2.        The movement of people and goods is severely restricted both internally and between the
Palestinians and Israeli areas, given the vast network of about 140 Israeli army check points and various
blockades. The number of Palestinians officially permitted to work in Israel has been halved to about
30,000, with much lower levels at times of severe crises, and about 172,000 jobs were lost inthe private
sector, 51percent of the pre-Zntifada workforce. Unemployment has grown from 10 percent of the labor
force in the third quarter of 2002, and now stands at 42 percent (53 percent if those not seeking work are
included).

3.        The number of poor has tripled to more than 2 million, since about 60 percent of households have
lost more than half of their income. Families have been forced to liquidate their savings, accumulate debt,
and resort to family and other social networks as a way to cope with the crisis. The poor have been
getting even poorer, with average daily consumption slipping from US$1.47 to US$1.32 and food
consumption declining by 25 to 30 percent on a per capita basis. The incidence of acute malnutrition
among children has increased to 13.3 percent in Gaza (on par with Zimbabwe andjust behind Congo); in
the West Bank itnow stands at 4.3 percent, averaging 9.3 percent overall.

4.        Most of the large West Bank municipalities have been re-occupied by Israeli military forces for
varying lengths of time since the end of March 2002, and have absorbed the bulk of the physical damage.
Municipalities and Village Councils (the main forms of local governance in WBG and key deliverers of
public services) have been pursuing various strategies to manage the fiscal deficit, such as reducing
services and salaries, delaying non-emergency maintenance, and laying off temporary staff. In addition,
the sheer physical difficulty    and frequent danger of delivering municipal services and maintaining basic
utilities has added an unwelcomenew dimension to a severe fiscal management problem.




 The information on the impactof the crisis providedinthis sectionrelies heavily on two World Bank sources: "Fifieen
Months-Intifada, Closuresand Palestinian Economic Crisis," March2002; and "Two years of Intifada, Closuresand
PalestinianEconomic Crisis," February, 14,2003.
 BeginninginSeptember,2000.


                                                             1

5.         Donor-funded emergency budget support has been crucial to the survival of the Palestinian
Authority (PA), and has offset the decline in domestic revenue and the withholding of Palestinian
revenues collected by the Government of Israel (GOI). Annual donor disbursements have doubled inthe
Intifada to just over US$l billion in 2002.                At US$300 per person per year, this represents an
unprecedented levelof international financial commitment.

6.         Donors have also led the way in helping the PA to rethink and reconfigure its governance
framework, with a view to increasingefficiency and accountability. Recently, the PA adopted a serious
program of policy and institutional reform, which had been advocated by donors and the Palestinian
public for several years. The reformprogram is seen as essential to the evolution of a viable Palestinian
state, and it i s aimed at weeding out corruption by enforcing full public fiscal accountability, creating a
predictable and transparent legal environment and buildinga modem, merit-based civil service.

The Water and SanitationSector

7.         Background. Inrecent months, one of the most notable changes in the status of municipal and
village services in the West Bank and Gaza has been the deterioration of water services. Urban water
systems have suffered from inadequate maintenance and appreciable physical damage.3 Inrural areas, the
situation i s worse, since the population relies mostly on water transported by tankers that no longer meets
WHO drinkingwater standards, and whose price has risen substantially since September 2000 as a result
of increasedtransportation costs.

8.         Based on a survey of 25 villages in the West Bank, Oxfam estimates that households now spend
as much as a third of their total family income on water, and points out the serious impact this has on
livelihoods, with farm animals dying and villagers being forced to sell their livestock at depreciated
prices. Recent field work, carried out by USAID4and DFID' over the past 12 months, paints a similar
picture of sharply increased water insecurity:

       People are much poorer; many have hadno cash income since September 2000, making the purchase
       of water from vendors increasingly difficult. It i s also very difficult to obtain credit from vendors or
       through social connections.
       As a result of closures and restrictions of mobility, the cost of tanker transport has increased, making
       water more expensive and putting additional economic burden on households. Data gathered in the
       field suggestthat the price of water supplied by tanker has increased five-fold inmany villages inthe
       southern West Bank, from about NIS 4 (US$l.OO) to NIS 20 per cubic meter.
       Inaddition, waiting times for service are much longer, and water supply is erratic. Duringthe
       summer season, the period of very severe water restrictionhas increased from 2-3 months to about 5-
       6 months.
       Water supply provided to many municipalities and villages from Israeli sources i s increasingly
       erratic, due largely to discretionary and unpredictable Israelirationing and lock-offs.
       People in the smaller municipalities and villages are increasingly resorting to water sources not fit
       for human consumption, typically dirty or infestedcisterns used for watering livestock.




  Accordingto the InternationalManagementGroupdatabase, estimatedphysicaldamageto the water andwastewatersector is
aroundUS$140million (aroundUS$60million inwater and US$SO million inwastewater)
  Village and Sanitation Programfor West Bank of Palestine, Environmental Health Assessment-Phase I,July 2002.
 Hebron WaterAccess and StorageProject, Technical Proposal, August 2001


                                                             2

9.          Sector Issuesand Strategy. In 2001, water supply levels on the West Bank were on average 90
I/c/d, quite low by international standards (less than one sixth of Israel's).6 Many areas of the West Bank,
Hebron and Jenin in particular, were woefully underserved and had consumption levels well below
average (see Annex 5).7 Inthe Hebron Governorate, for example, averagepiped supply was estimated at
55 Vc/d in 2001, and actual consumption about 40 I/c/d.8 Sixty percent of communities (mostly small
villages accounting for about 7 percent of the Governorate's 458,000 population) have no access to piped
supplies, and when the unserved urban population i s included, the share of Hebron's population with no
access piped supplies increases to 20 percent (about 97,000 persons). Figure 1 below indicates the
distribution of supplies and average per capita consumption levels, as well as the distribution of services
to communities ingovernorates. Furtherdetails are presented inAnnex 5.

Figure 1.               WaterSupply,and consumption by Governorates,2001




                                                                     IofPapuhtbninServedComnLs-tofSe~d
                                                                         Rcent                          Wrcent    Connunlies
           I +Average
               Fbpulation                   Consunp!bn (UUD)   I/



10.        As part of the 1998-2000 Palestinian Development Plan,' the Palestinian Water Authority (PWA)
and the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation identified the most pressing sector issues and
formulated an overall strategy to address them. These issues are still relevant in the current context, and
can be outlined as follows:
      Under-Znvestment: Historical under-investment in the sector has resulted in a lack of piped water to
      approximately a third of the Palestinian population in the West Bank, especially in rural areas.
      Sewage collection and treatment systems are also critically lacking throughout the Palestinian
     territories.
     Supply Constraints: Per capita availability of conventional water resources (surface water and
     groundwater) in the WBG i s very low, standing at only 103 m3/capita/year, compared to 375
     m3/capita/year in Israel; 170 m3/capita/year in Jordan; 1,200 m3/capita/year in Lebanon; and an
     average of 1,250 m3/capita/year for the whole MENAregion.


'Poverw
  "Water Supply in WestBankfor Year 2001," PWA, December2002. WHOrecommendsa minimumof 150l/c/d.
           in the West Bank and Gaza, Summary,MiddleEast andNorthAfrica Region, World Bank, January2001.
  The consumptionfigure i s net ofunaccountedfor water which PWA estimates at 40% on average. About 10percent of this
figure i s due to poor meteringandillegal connections. The balance(30%) is believedto be due to leakagesfrom old andbadly
maintained networks andbadhouseholdconnections. Actual consumptionis thus estimatedat 70percentof supply.
  Infrastructurewas a top priority in the 1999-2003 PalestinianDevelopmentPlan (January 1999), as well as the fostering of an
enablingenvironment for privatesector development. Water and wastewater are the top priorities. Inthe West Bank, emphasis is
given to drilling new wells to provide new water resources, followed by provision of water networks, sewerage collection
systems and treatment, andinstitutionalbuildingprograms.


                                                               3

    Very Low Consumption Levels: Per capita municipal (domestic and industrial) consumption i s less
   than 50 liters per day (after losses).
   High System Losses: Very high levels of losses in the West Bank (unaccounted for water (UFW)is
    around 40-50 percent) are the result of poor construction, substandard materials, the corrosive
   environment, inadequate maintenance, illegal connections, and inadequate metering.
    Contamination Threats: Natural water resources are under threat from contamination by chlorides
    (salinity), by nitrates (from sewage and agricultural fertilizers), and by other chemicals from irrigation
   drainage and industrial and municipal effluents.
   Poor Service: Intermittent service, highly variable pressure, and inadequate pressure zoning result in
   regular and severe stress on the system and frequent pipe bursts.
   Inadequate Tariffs: Tariffs are inadequateto recover costs, andrevenue collection efficiency is poor.
   Institutional Fragmentation:      Regional management of the water sector i s fragmented among
   municipal water departments, village councils, the West Bank Water Department (WBWD), and the
   Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (WSSA). This fragmentation i s incompatible with efficient
   service delivery and the integrated management of the limited groundwater resources.

11.     PWA has sought and obtained considerable technical and financial assistance from donors to
implement an overall strategy that addresses these issues. This strategy can be outlined as follows:

   Bulk Supply Improvement: Drillingnew wells to alleviate the shortageof bulk water supplies, and
   upgrading existing wells that supply municipal water.
   Network Expansion: Extending water networks, particularly inunservedrural areas where water
   shortagesare particularly acute. This will be done incooperation with the relevant municipalities and
   village councils. Refugee camps will also receive special attention, incoordination with the United
   Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA).
   SystemLoss Reduction: ReducingUFW, and thereby increasing the amount of water utilized, will
   alleviate over-extraction of groundwater aquifers (see below).

B  Improving Network Management: Instituting measures to minimize UFW, including improving
   metering and billing, identifying illegal connections, improving leak detection and repair, and
   preparing network maps.
   Minimizing Contamination: Expanding the sewerage network will lessen contamination of
   groundwater from sewage and improve the environmental quality inurban areas.
   Establishing Policy Framework: Preparingand implementing an efficient and sustainable framework
   for systemdevelopment, buildingon the Water Law approved inFebruary of 2002.
   Tariff Reform: Institutinga system of tariffs, which will enable sustainable sector development while
   being affordable to households and vulnerable populations.
   Capacity Building: BuildingupPWA's technical, managerial and regulatory capacity.
   Institutional Reform: Undertakingmajor reforms that will separate policy and regulatory functions
   from service functions.
   Developing Regional Utilities: Entrustingwater production and distribution to regional water and
   wastewater utilities/companies, thereby reducingfragmentation and increasing efficiency.




                                                     4

12.        Strategy Implementation. Recognizing the increasing threat to public health, the increased
economic burden on households, and the financial and operational constraints on municipalities and
villages; in April 2002, PWA established the Emergency Water Operations Center (EWOC) in close
consultation with and strong support from the donor and NGO communities. The purpose of the EWOC
i s to assist in respondingto the growing humanitarian crisis through the prompt restoration of basic water
and sanitation services inthe West Bank. Specifically, EWOCi s charged with:

m    Maintaining daily communications with water supply officials inaffected areas.
     Coordinating damage assessments and definindprioritizing needs.
     Procuring and delivering required repair material, equipment, supplies and technical assistance.
     Organizing rapid responses to immediate water needs, including the procurement and delivery of
     emergency water supply commodities.

13.       EWOChas functioned very well to date. Inthe first six months of operation, it disbursed about
$1.15 million for emergency repair work, managing to get most severely damaged systems up and
runningand delivering spare parts as well as emergency supplies (including bottled water). Donors have
recently made an additional US$4.4 million available to EWOC for continuing emergency work. The
focus i s now on restocking supplies, helping to improve local preparedness; and moving beyond mere
crisis management to relieving social and economic hardshipinthe worst affected areas.

14.       The Emergency Investment Prowam (EIP).loThe West Bank has long suffered from shortages of
water, which have become increasingly acute as the conflict wears on. In response, PWA i s stressing the
need to implement a series of strategic investments on an emergency basis, and has prepared an
Emergency Investment Program that aims to boost supply by drilling and equipping wells and installing
pipelines to convey the additional water to areas of urgent need. The implementation of the program
would yield an additional 7.6 million cubic meters (MCM) of water annually, and it i s expected to
provide nearly 250,000 (14 percent) of the West Bank's 1.8 million inhabitants with an adequate and
reliable supply of water for the medium-term.

15.       Given the restrictions currently in place on Palestinian access to the western and northeastern
aquifer systems," the program i s limited to the southern area of the West Bank, and the drilling of new
wells is restricted to the eastern aquifer. While responding to the crisis, the program aims at fully
utilizing available water rightsto the eastern aquifer as a way to reduce dependenceon the unreliablebulk
supplies provided from the Israeli network, and i s consistent with PWA's broad sector development
strategy." The programfocuses on the Hebron District, which has one of the highest poverty rates inthe
West Bank13 and, according to recent PWA data, i s not only among the worst-served areas, but also
suffers from frequent water supply rationing in the summer months -a situation greatly exacerbated by
the crisis.14



loWest Bank IntegratedWater ResourcesManagementPlan, September2002 (fundedby USAID).
   PWA's strategy to alleviate water shortages in the northem areas is limited to continuing to provide support beyond the
emergencyneeds throughthe EWOC framework, trying to improve the efficiency of the distribution networksandincreasingthe
yield of existing wells through donor-supportedprogramof well rehabilitation. Major investments in supply augmentation are
pendingthe political resolutionof water rights and access to the westem andnortheastemaquifers. These andother issues inthe
north and central areas are being largely tackled through emergency assistance financed by donors long active in these areas,
particularlyNorway andGermany.
  West Bank Integrated Water Resources Management Plan, September2002 (fundedby USAID).
l3Poverty in the WestBankand Gaza,Summary,      MiddleEastandNorthAfrica Region, World Bank,January2001)
14Water Supply In [West] Bankfor Year 2001, PWA, December2002.


                                                               5

16.        The EIPhas the following main components: (i)      completing the drilling and equippingof 4 wells
in Bani Na'im area; (ii)    equipping the existing East Herodian well #2; (iii)    installing five transmission
pipeline systems and related reservoirs to convey the additional water throughout the southern area of the
West Bank; and (iv) rehabilitating and extending water distribution networks for high priority
municipalities and villages that are seriously affected by water shortages. Donors have worked closely
with PWA and each other inhelping to support the investments urgently needed to ease the water supply
situation in the West Bank, making the preparation of EIPa model of donor coordination. USAID, AFD
and the Bank are committed to fundingthe implementation of the EIP.

17.        The table below indicates the various investment packages and likely donor funding. Estimated
to cost about US$75 million, the program i s designed to allow different donors to fund various
freestanding packages in parallel. The packages proposed for World Bank funding under the EWP are a
key part of this wider donor-supported program.

18.        Many donors including the Bank and USAlD have undertaken numerous technical, economic and
institutional studies of the area over the last few years. Thus, the foundations of the program are well
established and consistent with the broader sector strategy and the Bank's country strategy. USAID has
already funded the design of the five proposed transmission pipelines and the ongoing implementation of
the four wells and two booster stations at Bani Na'im. In addition, they have indicated an interest in
financing the implementation of the proposed West Hebron Villages carrier and the rehabilitation and
extension of the distribution networks along the carrier.           AFD has shown interest in funding the
transmission line from Halhoul to Dura and Yatta. These three sets of investment closely complement the
one identified and proposed for Bank financing. On the institutional side, USAID has already explored
the feasibility of establishing joint service councils in the area, and DFID has shown an interest in
supportingtheir implementationwithin the scope of a PWA's broader long-term strategy of establishing a
single utility for service provision inthe southern area of the West Bank.

Table 1. ThePWA's Emergency InvestmentProgram in the Southern WestBank

       Program                                       posedDon                        7-
     Component                   WB                            USAID                 ~l
  (i) supply
     Water             m Equipping the          8   Completion of the BaniNa'im                           US$12.0 m
  augmentation         existing EastHerodian    wells and boosterstation (yields
                       #2 well (yields 1.7      5.90 MCM) [US$lO.O m]
                       MCM) [US$2.0 m]

  (ii)Transmission       Installation of East       Installationof the BaniNa'im-       Installation of   US$44.4m
  pipelines and        Herodian pipeline        Halhoul-Yattapipeline                the Halhoul-Dura-
  relatedreservoirs    [US$2.5 m]               [US$19.0 m]                          Yatta pipeline
                         Installation of           Installationof the West Hebron     [US$6.5 m]
                       Halhoul-Nuba pipeline    Villages carrier pipeline
                       [US$4.4m]                [US$12.0 m]

  (iii)
      Installation     8 Rehabilitationof          Rehabilitation of 16 village                           US$16.5 m
  andrehabilitation    networks inKharasand     networks and installation of 8 new
  of distribution      Nuba [US$2.5 m]          village networks (serving 90,000      ~




  networks                                      inhabitants) [US$14.0 m]

  iv) Technical        m Supportto PMU                                                                    1~ ~ $ 2m. 0
  Assistanceto PWA     [US$2.0 m]

      Total Cost              US$13.4 m                      US$55.0 m                    US$6.5 m      IUS$74.9 m



                                                        6

19.      Institutional Aspects and Sustainability. Given the conflict circumstances, PWA's current
focus has been on socio-economic hardship relief through emergency repair, increased water supplies,
and improved distribution networks in the areas of greatest need. In addition, where possible PWA i s
seeking to lay the groundwork requiredfor future sector, institutional and managerial reform.

20.      With regards to institutions, the creation of a southern water utility operating on a commercial
basis i s a strategic objective for the sector that would ensure the sustainability of current investments in
the long-term. However, given the current conditions of protracted conflict, it i s highly unlikely that this
objective will be achieved. Discussions among donors and PWA have ledto a consensus that a system of
joint service councils i s the optimal institutional structure that will help ensure the sustainability of
investments, while serving as a first step towards the creation of the future southern utility.

21.      Recent studies financed by donors, including USAID and DFID, have confirmed that
municipalities understand the issues and are willing to cooperate in forming such councils. The project
will provide support to PWA to enable it to effectively coordinate and collaborate with other donors inthe
creation of a framework for the development of joint service councils among the beneficiary
municipalities and villages. PWA will work in consultation with USAID and DFID who have indicated
their willingness to provide necessary technical assistance to help create local capacity to operate and
manageretail services to the consumers.

SECTION B. BANKRESPONSE AND STRATEGY

22.      In the absence of a CAS, on February 28, 2000 the Executive Directors approved the "Status
Report to the Board on the Trust Fundfor Gaza and West Bank and Strategic Outlook," which outlines
the Bank`s proposed strategy in WBG for the current period. The strategy aims at continuing to lay the
institutional foundation for statehood through knowledge-based analytical and policy work, and
operations that encourage the development of sound governance institutions at the central and sector
levels; and, inthe context of the current crisis, continue providing analytical and programmatic leadership
to the collective donor effort to cope with the emergency, while initiating multi-donor operations to
support the delivery of essential services and the maintenancekecovery of private sector activity.

23.      The proposed project is focused on addressing specific, high priority issues in the water sector,
and supports the Bank's already widely respectedleadership inthe collective donor effort to findeffective
ways to assist with the most negative social and economic consequences of the crisis. In addition, the
technical assistance given to PWA will help support more effective system management at the local level
(joint service councils) and sustain the foundation for the deeper institutional reforms.

24.      Rationalefor Bank Involvement. The Bank has hadconsiderable global experience indesigning
and implementing operations in response to natural disasters and emergencies arising in conflict-affected
settings. Developing countries are becoming increasingly aware of the need to put in place measures to
prevent or reduce risks arisingfrom crises. The number of Bank-supportedemergency recovery projects
has increased inthe past ten years, and the Bank has come a long way in its own understanding of how to
operationalize sustainable interventions inemergency situations. InWBG inparticular, the Bank i s often
relied upon by the PA and donors to lead such efforts, and has done so successfully. For example:




                                                       7

     The first three operations implemented by the Bank in WBG" were all emergency in nature and
     benefited from simplicity in design, while contributing toward the establishment of Palestinian
     implementation capacity, given its absence at the outset.
     The Bank has already demonstrated an ability to respond rapidly and effectively to the current crisis
     in WBG through its US$12 million contribution to the Emergency Response Program (ERSP),16
     launched in December 2000 - only two months after the start of the second Intifada - in which the
     Bank and five other donors provided over US$37 million to create temporary employment
     opportunities through small-scale infrastructure micro-projects.
     The Bank's ability to mobilize resources and contribute by providing a framework for other donor
     assistance i s illustrated by the Emergency Services Support Project (ESSP - TF-50473 - US$20
     million, FY02), which has mobilized over US$45 million indonor co-financing.
     The recently approved Emergency Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project (EMSRP - TF-50956 -
     US$20 million, FY03), prepared in close coordination with the European Commission and the
     Government of Belgium, among others, will leverage at its inception over US$37 million in parallel
     financing. Additional donor co-financing i s expected to follow once the proposed Municipal Fundi s
     established."
     The Bank`s Country Office has a comparative advantage by virtue of its highly skilled and
     experienced national and international staff, who can effectively administer and supervise emergency
     programs inthe West Bank and Gaza.
     Through its various water studies and projects in WBG over the last 8 years, the Bank has gained a
     deep knowledge and understanding of the sector and demonstrated considerable practical and
     intellectual leadership. It has also built a strong relationship with PWA and other key donors in the
     sector. Thus, PWA and donors expect the Bankto play a leading role intimes such as these.
     Finally, the Bank`s comparative advantage and global experience, has been instrumental in
     implementing innovative institutionalreforms inthe sector pioneered under the Water and Sanitation
     Services Project (WSSP - TF-26056 - US$25 million, FY97) and the Southern Area and Sanitation
     Improvement Project (SAWSIP -TF-22443 -US$21 million, FY00).18

25.       Lessons Learned from Similar Operations.                          An important lesson learned from recent
emergency operations in WBG supported by the Bank relates to decentralization of project preparation
and implementation, which greatly facilitates implementation at a time when central systems are unable to
function effectively because of the security situation. Decentralization has worked well in all of the
Bank-supported emergency projects inWBG.




l5EmergencyRehabilitationProjectIandI1(November 1994andMay 1996respectively)andthe EducationandHealth
RehabilitationProject(February 1998).
l6The Bank channeledacontributionto the EmergencyResponseProgram(P073.538) of US$12 million throughthe Bank-
administeredHolst Fundandleveragedafurther US$25 million injoint co-financing throughthe PEACEFacility in support of
emergencyjob creationthroughinfrastructuremicro-projects.
   EMRSPis amunicipalinstrument,and does not address deeper supply and distribution problems in the water sector-at      least,
not inthe short run.
'*The  key institutionalreformcomponentof SAWSIPwas restructuredrecently inresponsethe terminationof the contractwith
the internationaloperatoron grounds offorce majeure. Both actions were directly due to the current crisis. Giventhe
circumstances,it is highly unlikely that the strategic objectivesfor the creationof the southemwater utility canbecomeareality
inthe short-term. Duringthisperiodofinstability, the focus will beplacedinaddressingthe pressingneedsto supply additional
water while pursuingthe modestobjectiveof establishingjoint service councils, which would be astepping-stonefor the creation
of the future southernutility.


                                                                  8

26.      In addition, water is one of the few sectors in WBG where dialogue and reasonable working
relationships still persist among the professionals on the Palestinian and Israeli sides, and where
considerable donor involvement has also facilitated the dialogue between the Palestinian and Israeli
parties. There appears to be a higher-level consensus that issues related to the management of scarce
water resources, and the health risks attached to a breakdown in water and sanitation systems are too
important to be left to the vagaries of the current crisis. Consultative mechanisms such as the Joint Water
Committee (JWC) bringtogether Israeli and Palestinian professionals (including the military) periodically
to discuss sector issues. These mechanisms are working and have proved effective in sorting out many
problems. For example, upon consultation in a number of cases including the ongoing SAWSIP, Israeli
military authorities have given special permits to a number of contractors and consultants in order to
facilitate the movement of construction equipment and workers.

27.      The situation favors the operation of international contractors, who are able to expedite the
process of obtaining the necessary permits and clearances. However, there is a risk that key expatriate
staff may depart quickly when serious conflicts materialize.

28.      The above implies i s that PWA must continue to deepen the dialogue with relevant Israeli
technical, political and military authorities, keeping them fully apprised of plans and alerting them
promptly when problems arise. Existing consultative mechanisms must be utilized effectively, and
project design, management and procurement strategies must exploit, or at least take heed of the factors
that foster success in the current context. Finally, contingency plans must be developed to deal with the
various crises and blockages that may arise.

SECTION C. DETAILED        PROJECT   DESCRIPTION

Objectives and Components

29.      Project Objectives and Development Outcomes. The main objective of the proposed project is
to help alleviate the chronic shortages of safe water supplies, and reduce system losses, water costs and
health risks. These objectives are consistent with PWA's strategy, in which highest priority i s given to
developing existing sources where water can be quickly conveyed and distributed to underserved
consumers.

30.      Project Components and Estimated Costs. The proposed project is a self-standing portion of a
broader, coordinated donor-supported program.lg It is estimated to cost US$13.4 million (IDA, US$12.50
million and the PA, US$O.9 million inthe form of payment of taxes), and will be implemented over a two
and a half year period. It will be entirely financed on a grant basis from TFGWB, and includes the
following main components: (i)rehabilitation and improvement of water supply transmission and
distribution systems; and (ii)technical assistanceand capacity building, as further detailed below.




l9
 The complementary componentsandpackages to be financedby others are indicatedinthe following section.


                                                       9

Component I:Rehabilitation and Improvement of Water Supply and Distribution System (US$11.4
million).

    Package #I.East Herodian Well Equipment and Transmission Pipeline (US$4.5million).

    This sub-component will finance: a) the supply and installation of electromechanical works for
    the existing East Herodian water well number two (EH#2), including well pump, booster pump
    and accessories, at an estimated cost of US$2.0 million; and b) the supply and installation of
    about 7.5 km of 16-inches diameter ductile iron water transmission pipeline to convey the water
    from EH#2 to the existing main north-south carrier at an estimated cost of US$2.5 million.

    Once operational, the well will discharge an additional 200m3/hr. EH#2 was drilled and tested in
    the second half of year 2000, just before the Intifada started. The cost of drilling was borne by
    EIB. The design and preparation of biddingdocuments for the two packages was prepared by an
    international consulting firm, and was financed by U S A D .

    Package#2, HalhoulKharasINuba TransmissionPipeline (US$4.4million).

    This sub-component will finance the installation of about 15kmof 6 to 16-inch diameter ductile
    iron water transmission pipeline from the existing Halhoul regional water reservoir (capacity
    25,000m3, financed by USAID) to Kharas and Nuba villages.

    The work includes construction of a l,000m3on-ground water reservoir near Kharas and the
    connection pipelines to the proposed main pipeline, which will replace an old and much smaller
    (6-inch diameter) transmission pipeline, and convey water supplied from the north-south carrier
    (mentioned in package #1 above) through the existing Halhoul reservoir to the western villages.
    Special mitigation measures, such as the use of reducers and pressure reducing valves, are
    planned in case the proposed (12-inch diameter segment) transmission pipeline needs to be
    connected to the existing 6-inch diameter pipeline near Nuba village. This would be the case if
    the complementary investment package (# 1)of USAID outlined inthe section below, i s delayed.

    The entire additional amount of 1.7 M C Mfrom EH#2would be transferred to the western Hebron
    villages via the new pipeline, as well as a share of the 5.9 M C M proposed from the USAID
    developed Bani Na'im well field (see complementary investment package #2 below).

    Pkg. #3, Distribution Network Rehabilitation Package (US$2.5million).

    This sub-component will finance the rehabilitation of existing water networks in the villages of
    Kharas (about 34km of different diameter pipes) and Nuba (about 34km of different diameter
    pipes), and will be supported by complementary investment package#3 (see below).

Component2: Technical Assistance and CapacityBuilding (US$2.0million).

   Project Management Unit (PMU)(US$0.5million).

   This sub-component will finance the strengthening of the existing Project Management Unit
    (PMU) within PWA to enable it to effectively supervise project execution, and collaborate with
    other donors inthe creation of a framework for the development ofjoint services council clusters,
   that will be responsible for operating and maintaining retail water distribution throughout the
   project area.



                                               10

       The project will finance a share of the PMU's operating costs, including office supplies, utility
       costs, rent, communication costs, local travel, office equipment and furniture, as well as rent for
       storage facilities and insurance.

       The PMU will operate throughout the duration of the Project and will have the principal
       implementation responsibility on PWA's behalf. It i s already in place, and, during appraisal, its
       capacity and adequacy for the proposed project was reviewed and deemed acceptable. The
       recruitment of a project manager(s) and a procurement officer would further strengthen it.

       Technical assistance: (US$1.5million).

       This sub-component will finance: a) the costs of the consultant services necessary for technical
       support, monitoring, engineering design, and preparation of bidding documents for Dura and
       Yatta villages distribution networks; and b) the cost of services of a Construction Management
       firm.

31.    Complementary Investments: These would be undertaken in parallel, but independently, by
USAID and AFD as part of the EIP. They include the following:

   Complementary Investment # 1: Works-Rehabilitation and Improvement of Water Supply and
   Distribution System. (US$61.5million).

   Complementary Package # I: Westem Villages Transmission Line (US$12 million, financed bv
   USAID).

   The supply and installation of the remaining length, about 28km of ductile iron pipes, of the
   transmission pipeline, namely from Nuba to Al-Bira in the southern part of Hebron. The work also
   includes construction of four 500m3ground water reservoirs near the Beit Ula, Deir Samit, Iskeik and
   AI-Bira villages and the connection pipelines to the maintransmission pipeline.

   Complementaw Package # 2: Bani Na'im bulk water supply and transmission pipe1ine package:
   (US$29million, financed by USAID).

   The supply and installation of electromechanical works for the existing Bani Na'im water well field
   including well pumps, two booster stations, the piping system within the well field up to the
   downstream booster station, and the water carriers from the downstream booster station to both the
   existing Halhoul reservoir and to Yatta reservoir. The well field, once operational, would discharge
   about 5.8 MCM of water based on a 675m3/hr discharge rate into the water system. Three wells of
   the water well field were completely drilled and the forth i s under drilling. The drilling of one of the
   wells was financed by the EIB and drilling the other three wells are financed by the USAID. An
   international consulting fm has been contracted to finalize the design, and it i s expected that
   contactingfor the implementationwould start inthe fourth quarter of 2003.

   Complementary Package # 3: Westem Villages Network Rehabilitation (US$14 million, financed bv
   USAID)

   The rehabilitation of existing or installation of new water distribution networks in several villages
   locatedaround the main transmission pipeline fromNuba village to AI-Bira.




                                                   11

     Complementary Packane # 4: Halhoul-Hebron-Dura-Yatta transmission pipelines: (US$6.5 million,
    financed bv AFD).

     The supply and installation of about 23km of 24-inch diameter ductile iron/steel water transmission
     pipeline from the existing Halhoul regional water reservoir to Dura and Yatta villages. The work also
     includes construction of a 5,000m3 on-ground water reservoir near Dura village and the connection
    pipelines to the proposed 24-inch diameter pipeline.

32.      Key Project Performance Indicators.20The key outcome indicator is:

              0  Increase inquantity of water supplied (MCM).
         The output indicators to be agreedduringNegotiations are:

              0  Number of new household connections.

              0  Number of household connections rehabilitated.

              0  Length of water pipelines installedand rehabilitated(km).

              0  Identified packages are tendered and completed satisfactorily inaccordanceto the project
                 plan.

              0  Engineering designs and bidding documents for the Dura and Yatta villages are
                 satisfactorily completed.
Major Benefits and Risks

33.      Benefits. The main benefit of the program and the project is improved water supply to an
estimated 400,000 people in the Hebron Governorate through the program and 90,000 people in the
Western Hebron villages through the project. Improved water supply translates into various non-
monetary and monetary benefits, such as: (i)   improved health and hygiene through higher quantities and
better quality of water; and (ii)reduced expenditures for buying water from water vendors. The Western
Hebron villages households currently receive only a limited average amount of about 60 liters per capita
per day (Vc/d) from the following sources: 34 Yc/d through the network; 17 Vc/d from rainwater
harvesting and 9 Vc/d from water vendors. This already very low figure masks substantial local and
seasonal variations. The price of water charged by vendors - NIS 20 per m3(US$4.3 per m3)- i s one of
the highest inthe world, and about four times higher than the average tariff of piped water inthe Southern
West Bank the highest in the ME"region (NIS 5 per m3or US$1.18 per m3),and mainly attributed to
water scarcity and movement restrictions.

34.      It is assumed that water use from the network will double to about 70 l/c/d, displacing water
supplied by vendors, while the amount of harvested rainwater will remain the same at 17 Wd. Based on
these data, the shadow price of the incremental amounts of water i s estimated at more than US$2 per m3
for the Western villages. Assuming the data for the Western villages are representative for the whole
Hebron Governorate, the economic rate of return of the program i s estimated at 21%. If the Bani Na'im
well field and associated transmission as well as the Halhoul-Dura pipeline are excluded, thus including
only the investments destined to the Western villages, the rate of return drops to 10%.

35.      Risks. The project faces significant risks during implementation. In general, there i s a risk that
the volatile political and security situation could jeopardize smooth implementation, particularly if


2o SeeAnnex 3 for ProjectLogframe with key performance indicators.


                                                    12

closures and curfews remain in place for an indefinite period. This risk i s widely acknowledged by the
donor community and i s addressedinpart through the Task Force on Implementation. The fact that three
donors are participating ina coordinated effort will help to ensure a hearingwith Israeli Authorities when
problems arise as a result of their actions.

36.      The following specific risks have been identifiedalong with measuresto mitigate their impact:

    Low Well Yield. There i s a risk of the EH#2 well yielding less than the necessary200 cubic meters per
    hour (CMPH) of water of acceptable quality. Test results have confirmed that the required quantity
    and quality of water i s obtainable from the well.
    Procurement: To further minimize potential risks during the implementation phase, the contracting
    will be done separately for equipping the EH#2 well, the goods needed for the two pipelines, the
    works related to the installation of the pipelines, and the rehabilitation works for the villages of
    Kharas and Nuba. The equipping of the EH#2 well and goods will be tendered and awarded using
    International Competitive Bidding(ICB) procedures, usingthe standard biddingdocuments for supply
    and installation of equipment, as well as the standard bid evaluation report for goods and works.
    PWA will be assistedby an international consultingfirm inpreparingthese documents in accordance
    with Bank procurement guidelines. National Competitive Bidding(NCB) procedures will be used for
    the installation of the pipelines and rehabilitation of the village networks. The risks of 'increased
    complexity of supervision associated with this approach are mitigated by the employment of an
    experienced, internationally recruitedconstruction manager.
    Delays infinalizing bidding documents: PWA will prepare the biddingdocuments inaccordance with
    the World Bank procurement guidelines.           The designs for the EH#2 well pumping station and
    transmission pipeline are complete, while the detailed designs for the Halhoul-Kharas-Nuba pipeline
    and reservoir package are well underway. The tender documents for the procurement of goods and
    equipment neededfor implementation have been issued for Bank' s review.
    Zsraeli Permissions:PWA has secured written confirmation from the Joint Water Committee and the
    Israeli authorities indicating their willingness to facilitate the movement of the contractors and goods
    to and from the project sites.
    Project Management: Although the PMUi s competent, it also has many other responsibilities. Thus
    further local technical expertise (project manager and procurement specialist) and, as noted above, an
    internationally recruited construction manager will be employed under the project to help oversee
    progress and manage the procurement issues that could arise.
    Donor Coordination: The proposed project is part of a wider program of relief and improvement for
    the southern West Bank, and has been developed in coordination with other donors, who are expected
    to be working inparallel. Delays in the implementation of other donor-financedcomponents i s a risk
    that i s mitigated by the project's freestanding design.

37.      Current Bank experience indicates that projects can be implemented even under the very difficult
circumstances that exist today. Nonetheless, there i s the possibility of further serious deterioration in the
political and security conditions, to the point where extended border closures might halt delivery of
material and supplies for long periods or force the evacuation of the contractor's staff. Short of such
situation, though, the PMU has demonstrated its ability to cope with and adjust to the current conditions,
and it has reaffirmed their strong commitment to continued timely implementation. Should the worse
case scenario materialize, prior PWA consultation with Israeli authorities may minimize the overall
impact of such circumstances. In any case, local contractors should be capable of completing the work;




                                                      13

therefore, foreign contractors will be required to ensure that their local subcontractors are fully involved
inand conversant withproject details.

38.     Environmental Aspects. The proposed emergency project was prepared in accordance with
Operational Policy (OP) 8.50 and will contribute to environmental improvements by increasing water
service quality and coverage in small localities inthe southern partof the West Bank. The identified sub-
projects will not require land acquisition or resettlement; thus, the project has been deemed category B in
accordance with the World Bank Operational Policy 4.01 (January 1998).                  An Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) was prepared by PWA in close coordination with the Environmental Quality
Authority (EQA) and will be monitored through Bank supervision missions and reviewed during the
project's mid-term review. The EMP gives general guidance on environmental issues, as well as on site
assessments and designs that will be prepared for infrastructure sub-projects to be carried out under this
project. In addition, the EMP elaborates on potential environmental impacts and recommends mitigation
measures, for which the needs are likely to be limited. The costs, if any, would be borne under the
rehabilitationand improvement component of the project.

39.     Social Aspects. The key social and economic impacts are indicated in the section on benefits
below. However, it should be noted that these impacts will be positive and considerable. In particular,
the project would reduce hardship by increasing safe and reliable supply of water. Public healthrisks will
also decrease, since there will be a reduction on the dependence on unsafe supplies of water. Reduced
water costs will help households deal with the very difficult economic conditions, particularly for those
already below the poverty line. Women, children and the disadvantaged will benefit significantly, since
they bear the main burden of water collection and household chores. Given that the proposed pipelines
will be laid or rehabilitated along existing public right-of-ways, there are no relocation issues, and no
indigenous communities will be affected.

SECTION D. STUDIES & TECHNICAL          ASSISTANCE

40.     The project will provide support to PWA to enable it to effectively coordinate and collaborate
with other donors inthe creation of a framework for the development ofjoint service councils among the
beneficiary municipalities and villages, as a first step towards the creation of a regional utility. Recent
studies financed by donors, including USAID and DFID, have confirmed that municipalities understand
the issues and are willing to cooperate in forming such councils. PWA will work in consultation with
USAID and DFJDwho have indicated their willingness to provide necessary technical assistance to help
create local capacity to operate and manage retail services to the consumers, given their experience in
forming JSCs in the southern area of the West Bank. In addition, the project will finance technical
assistanceto the PMU, as detailedinthe Component 2 section above.

SECTION E. INSTITUTIONAL       ARRANGEMENTS & PROJECT          IMPLEMENTATION

41.     Currently the Palestinian entities whose mandates directly affect the water sector are: (i)      the
National Water Council (NWC) chaired by the President of the Palestinian Authority and composed of 13
members representing public and private sectors; (ii)   the Palestinian Water Authority (PWA), and (iii)
various water utilities and municipalities covering different areas of the West Bank and Gaza. PWA has
overall regulatory responsibility for the sector and provides policy guidance and support, as well as
coordinates the work of donors active inthe sector.

42.     Project Management Unit. Day-to-day implementation will be the responsibility of the
PWA's existing PMU. The latter was established by the PWA to facilitate effective monitoring and



                                                     14

implementation of SAWSIP.21 The PMU is located in Bethlehem city in the southern part of the West
Bank close to the project site, and will be strengthenedby recruiting a project manager(s), a procurement
officer, and a construction manager (a firm), all according to Bank guidelines for selection and
employment of consultants. The procurement officer will be responsible for procurement related issues
for both the proposed project and the SAWSIP. Preferably, the construction manager will be a qualified
international firm responsible for facilitating the coordination with Israelis for: clearance of entry of
goods and securing permits for mobility of staff and contractors' employees, in addition to managing the
construction of the investment packages.

43.      The PMUwill be responsible for all project accounting, disbursement, monitoring and evaluation,
and will ensure timely implementation of Project activities. It will also be responsible for the selection
and employment of consultants and preparation of contracts for the locab'international technical
consulting firmskonsultants, as well as procurement of works, goods and services. The PMU will be
requiredto submit quarterly progress reports for IDA review, which cover the status of physical progress
in implementing the various investment packages; updated commitment/disbursement data and variation
orders, noting deviations, if any, from the implementation plan; and highlight key issues and constraints,
mitigation measures planned and taken; and updated assessments of the quality and coverage of water
service delivery inthe benefited communities. The PMUwill also prepare a detailed mid-term report that
would serve as the basis for a Project Mid-Term Review inJanuary 2005. Finally, PMUwill prepare and
submit an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to IDA within four months of the project's closing
date.

44.      Project ImplementationPlan (PIP). A draft Project Implementation Plan was prepared by
PWA anddiscussed and agreed at appraisal. Its purpose is to detail how the PalestinianAuthority intends
to carry out the Project to its completion. The PIP complements the MOP and Technical Annex; it
expands on important implementation arrangements, and is seen by PWA as a flexible implementation
tool that would be reviewed periodically and adjusted when warranted. The PIP describes PWA as the
focal point, fully accountable for Project oversight and coordination. Staffing and key staff positions for
the PMU involved in implementation are also described in the PIP, as well as the role of the other
participants in the process (PMU, construction manager and various ministries and donors), and the
coordinationmechanisms between the various actors.

45.      There will be a Project Launch Workshop within one month of effectiveness. Part of the Bank
supervision staff i s located inthe field for close monitoring of the Project and to provide timely assistance
to the client. Supervision missions would take place according to Project requirements. The Project
midterm review i s tentatively scheduled for January 2005. The penultimate supervision mission
(February-March 2006) would be usedto launchthe preparationof the ICR with PWA.

Procurement Arrangements

46.      The Project will finance civil works, goods, services, and operating costs. Procurement will be
conducted in accordance with IDA guidelines for "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,"
January 1995 (revised inJanuary and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999); as well as those
for "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," January 1997 (revised
September 1997 and January 1999, revised May 2002). The components not financed by IDA will be
procured in accordance with PA regulations or guidelines of financing institutions.                  A General
Procurement Notice (GPN) has already been issued in "United Nations Development Business" (UNDB)


21After the termination of the operator contract, the PMUplayed a more active role inthe implementation of the
project.


                                                        15

prior to the publication of the first Specific Procurement Notice (SPN) and bidders who have expressed
interest will be notifieddirectly by the PMU.

47.      Procurement Responsibilities. The PMUwill bear overall procurement responsibility duringall
phases of the project. All contracts, purchase orders and bid evaluation reports will be retainedand filed
at the PMUoffice.

48.      Procurement Methods. The procurement arrangements described below are summarized under
Table A. Thresholds for procurement methods and prior review arrangements are summarized under
Table B.

49.      Civil Works. Civil works are not expected to be procured under ICB procedures. Due to the
current situation of political volatility and the restrictive and difficult security measures in place, it i s
unlikely that international contractors will be interested in working inthe sub-project areas. Bidpackages
with an estimated contract value of US$2,000,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount of US$5,000,000,
will be procured using NCB procedures and documents, and advertised in at least two local newspapers.
NCB contracts will be open to eligible foreign bidders ifthey wish to participate. Bidevaluations will be
submitted on IDA's Standard BidEvaluationForms for Procurement of Goods and Works of April 1996.

50.      Goods. To the extent possible, goods will be grouped together in lots of similar items. Bid
packages with an estimated contract value of more than US$200,000 equivalent will be procured using
ICB procedures. Packages with an estimated contract value of US$lOO,OOO or more up to an aggregate
amount of US$400,000 or equivalent will be procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank. These contracts will require advertisement in at least
two local newspapers. NCB contracts will be open to eligible foreign bidders if they wish to participate.
Goods contracts estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO up to an aggregate amount of US$lOO,OOO will
be procured using National or International Shopping (NS/IS) procedures and will require soliciting,
receiving and evaluating competitive quotations from at least three qualified suppliers. Goods costing
less than US$5,000 with IDA prior review and clearance, and under exceptional circumstances, will be
procuredthrough direct purchase from the nearest available source.

51.     Services. For consultants' services costing US$200,000 or more, the Quality and Cost Based
Selection (QCBS) method will be used. Inaddition, the Least Cost Based Selection (LCBS) method will
be used for the procurement of the construction manager contract. An advertisement for Expressions of
Interest will be published in the UN Development Business and the use of IDA's Standard RFT and
EvaluationReport will be required. For services costing less than US$200,000 up to an aggregateamount
of US$500,000, the selection method would be QCBS or QBS. For services provided by firms costing
less than US$50,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000, the selection method will be
Consultants' Qualifications (CQ).       Single Source Selection (SS) will be used under exceptional
circumstances and would require IDA's prior review and `no objection.'

52.     For individual consultant contracts estimated to cost US$50,000 or less, the selection method will
be based on Section V of the World Bank Guidelinesfor Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers, published in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999, and
May 2002. Single Source Selection (SS) will be used under exceptionalcircumstances and would require
IDA's prior review and `no objection'.




                                                      16

                        Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                                 (US$ millionequivalent)'

                                                                  ProcurementMethod
   Expenditure Category              ICB                NCB               Other2            N.B.F.            Total Cost
   1. Works                                              4.90                                                      4.90
                                                        (4.17)                                                   (4.17)
   2. Goods                          6.16                0.33                                                      6.49
                                   (6.16)              (0.28)                                                    (6.44)
   3. Consultant                                                            1.89                                    1.89
       Services                                                           (1.79)                                 (1.79)
   6. Incremental                                                          0.12                                    0.12
       Operating Costs                                                    (0.10)                                 (0.10)
      Total                          6.16                5.23              2.00                                     13.4
                                   (6.16)              (4.45)             (1.89)                                 (12.50)
         Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to befinanced by the Bank. All costs include contingencies.
  2/     Includesgoods to be procured through nationalhternational shopping,direct purchase, direct contracting of
  consulting services,auditing cost, services of contracted staff of theProject Management Unit, technical assistance services,
  and incremental operating costs related to rent, utility charges, communication costs, travel costs, labor costs, ofice supply
  and equipment and delivery services.

53.      Prior Review. (Table 2-B provides information on all prior review arrangements). The first two
contract packages in each category and each procurement method (works, goods and services),
irrespective of the estimated contract value, would be subject to IDA's prior review, in accordance with
the applicable guidelines. Thereafter, all contracts for works with an estimated contract value above
US$500,000 equivalent, any contract for goods with an estimated contract value above US$lOO,OOO
equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review. Contracts with individual consultants in excess of
US$50,000 equivalent and with consulting f m s in excess of US$lOO,OOO equivalent, as well as all
single-source contracts would be subject to prior review. All other contracts would be subject to post-
review on arandombasisduring supervisionmissionsandprocurementaudits.

Total value of contracts subjectto prior review: US$12.4 million.




                                                               17

                    Table B: Thresholds for ProcurementMethodsandPrior Review

                           Contract Value                                        Contracts Subject to
     Expenditure             Threshold                 Procurement                  Prior Review
       Category                (US$ )                     Method                        (US$)
1.Works                      >2,000,000                     ICB                      All contracts

                             5 2,000,000                    NCB              Each contract above 500,000



 2. Goods                    1200,000                       ICB                      All contracts
                             <200,000                      NCB               Each contract above 100,000
                             < 100,000                     Isms
                               <5,000                 Direct Purchase                All Contracts
 3. Services

         Firm:               2 200,000                 QCBS, LCBS                    All contracts
                             <200,000                  QCBS, QBS             Firsttwo RFPs andcontracts
                              <50,000                       CQ                    and then all TORS,

         Individual:          2 50,000           See section V of Guidelines         All contracts
                              <50,000            See section V of Guidelines      Firsttwo contracts

54.      Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: Average.

55.      Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (including
special procurement supervision for post-reviewlaudits). Post review will be conducted on a sample of 10
percent of the sub-projects subject to post review.

56.      Procurement Planning. The PMUhas prepared a draft procurement plan for the main project
activities. The plan would be revised on a quarterly basis and will be part of the project implementation
plan.

57.      Summary of Procurement Capacity Assessment. Since it was established, PWA has been
working bilaterally with a number of donor countries and international agencies including the Bank. It
has capable and experienced staff that have carried out and performed procurement processes in
accordance with different donor rules and regulations.       PWA has previous experience with Bank
guidelines through the MIDP I,MIDP 11, Gaza Water Supply and Sanitation Project and the Southern
Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project.         The PMU has previous experience with Bank
procurement guidelines through the ongoing Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project.
However, hiringa procurement specialist would strengthen the PMU. Inaddition, PWA will be assisted
by a management construction firminthe preparation of the biddingdocuments in accordance with Bank
procedures and guidelines, as well as duringsupervision of the construction works.

FinancialManagement

58.      Background: The Palestinian Water Authority, through the existing Project Management Unit
(PMU) in West Bank for the on-going SAWSIP, will have the responsibility for the project
implementation, as well as all aspects of financial management. The PMUwas established in 1999 and
has beenresponsible for SAWSIP's overall financial management, includingaccounting, monitoring, and



                                                    18

reporting throughout the project implementation. The financial management system (FMS) at the PMUi s
continuously reviewed duringthe Bank`s regular supervision missions to ensure continuation of adequate
financial management arrangements and the ability to generate reliable quarterly financial monitoring
reports (FMR). Throughout the implementationof SAWSIP, the PMUmaintained an adequate FMS.

59.      The PMU i s adequately staffed with a qualified finance officer. The PMUwill prepare a full set
of FMR on quarterly basis and submit them un-audited to IDA within 45 days from the end of each
quarter. Also, the PMU will prepare annual financial statements, which will be audited by a qualified
independent auditor acceptableto IDA. The audit report shall be sent to IDA within four months of year-
end. Disbursement will be based on traditional disbursement methods. To facilitate implementation, a
SpecialAccount will be openedat commercialbank acceptable to IDA.

60.      Financial Management Assessment: The financial management assessment of the PMU,
conducted during a February 2003 supervision mission, revealed that it has in place adequate financial
management systems that meet the IDA requirements. The operational procedural manual provides
adequate level of segregation of duties and clear division of authorities and responsibilities. Also, the FM
system i s capable of producingreliable and timely project financial statements and FMR.

61.      Accounting System: The project's primary accounting will be the responsibility of the PMU.
Separate project ledger and accounting records would be established for EWP, as the PMU's accounting
system (Bisan) is capable of maintaining multi-project accounts. The PMU accounting responsibilities
will include maintaining all accounting records, supporting documents, undertake book-keeping of all
financial transactions, prepare monthly bank reconciliation for the Special Account, quarterly FMR,
prepare annual financial statements, examine supporting documents for the purpose of payments to
contractors and third parties, prepare Withdrawal Applications for withdrawal of funds from the Grant
Account and coordinate with the Ministry of Finance for countersignature, review and monitoring
purposes. Accounting for the project will be on accrual basis in line with International Accounting
Standards and PWA accounting policies and procedures. This implies that year-end adjustments for
accounts payable and accountsreceivable will be properly made.

62.      The PMUwill maintain supporting documentation for expenditures on activities managed under
the Project. Books of accounts will be maintained on double-entry bookkeeping principles for the
activities under the Project. Project records should be kept in auditable conditions at all times. The
project accounting records and all supporting documents shall be maintained at PWA for at least one year
after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant
Account was made.

63.      Budgeting System: The budgeting system is in place and linked to accounting. The PMU will
prepare an annual budget plan and update it on quarterly basis to reflect actual implementation and latest
forecasts. Where feasible, the PMU proposals for funding will be accompanied by a proposed budget,
which would facilitate better planning and control. These plans will be periodically reviewed and updated
along with the progress of the project.

64.      Procedures of Internal Control: The Internal Control Procedures at the PMUwere established
in 1999by qualifiedconsultants, and are acceptableto IDA. The control policies andprocedures provide
reasonable assurance of (a) a proper authorization of transactions; (b) access to and use of assets and
records; and (c) separation of custody of cash from authorization and record keeping, and separation of
authorizationfrom record keeping.




                                                    19

65.      Flow of Funds: The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will establish a special account at a commercial
bank according to IDA's terms and conditions. The PMU will be responsible for managing the Special
Account, including preparation of withdrawal applications and sending copies to the Ministry of Finance
for review, countersignature and monitoring purposes, reconciliation of the account to IDA's records,
cooperate with IDA's supervision missions and coordinate with external auditors.

66.      The Bank will finance 95 percent of the eligible consulting services excluding VAT (81percent if
VAT is included); 100percent of the eligible foreign expenditures for goods; and 85 percent of eligible
expenditures for works and local goods. The remainingpercentage, which accounts for VAT, will be pre-
financed by a VAT fund account established by PWA and replenished by the MOF as they collect the
VAT payments from the contractors, and no later than 60 days after the payment has been made to the
contractors. Disbursement will be based on traditional disbursement methods, using applications for
direct payment, requests for special commitments, reimbursement, and replenishments to the Special
Account accompanied by SOEs andor summary sheets with full supporting documents. The PMU/MA
will maintain all supporting documents for year-end auditing and supervision missions reviews, these
documents will be kept at PWA for at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal
year inwhich the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made.

67.     Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR): The PMU will prepare Financial Management Reports
and send them non-audited to the Bank 45 days following the end of every quarter. The Financial
Management Reports will include (a) a general progress report about Project implementation (b) the cost
by component for the quarter (c) the costs incurred by type of expenses (d) the project balance sheet and
(e) the acquisitions incurred on contracts under the established threshold. The project statement of
accounts will be put in place to facilitate the automatic generation of the reports on financial controls.
The contents and format of the reports have been prepared by the PMU and agreed during negotiations.
The FMR will be reviewed by the project team and the financial management analyst in the Country
Office, and will form the basis for the Country Office periodic review of the project's financial
management activities.

68.     Audit: The project accounts and the annual financial statements (project balance sheet, the flow
of funds, and the statement of the Special Account) will be subjected to annual audits. The audit will be
conducted in accordance to international standards on auditing, by an independent auditor acceptable to
IDA, and under terms of reference cleared by IDA. The auditor will examine all sources of the funds of
the project, as well as all incurred expenses including those related to the statements of the expenditures
(SOEs) by ascertaining their conformity with the Trust FundGrant Agreement. The auditor will express
an opinion on the project financial statements, and will supply a separated viewpoint on the eligibility of
all incurred expenses that are included in the SOEs. The audit report should be sent to IDA not later than
four months after the end of the year. The auditor will be appointed by MOF.

69.     In addition to external auditing, SOEs will be reviewed by supervision missions and IDA's
country office to substantiate adequate supporting documents and accuracy, and to ensure consistent and
efficient applicationof the financial management system.

70.     Risks: The project's financial management risk is considered low. This consideration is mainly
the result of the following: (a) financial management i s entrusted to an experienced, well established
PMU, (b) limited number of transactions with relatively large amounts which require intensive review
and auditing, and (c) involvement of the Ministry of Finance in reviewing and countersigning each
withdrawal application. The mainrisk would be the co-mingling of the two projects accounts handledby
the same PMU(SAWSIP and EWP), or errors in posting payments between the two projects. This risk




                                                    20

will be mitigatedthrough the set up of separate accounts and general ledger, and maintainingthe financial
transaction records totally separate.

71.     In addition to the regular supervision missions, the financial management analyst at the Country
Office would review the quarterly FMR, periodically review SOE samples, conduct visits to the PMUand
ensure the sustainability and adequacy of the FMarrangements .

Disbursement

72.     Disbursements would follow traditional disbursement methods using applications for direct
payment, requests for special commitments, reimbursement and replenishments to the Special Account
accompanied by SOEs and/or summary sheets with full supporting documents.

73.     Disbursement Arrangements. The proposed Grant of US$12.5 million equivalent will be
disbursed over a period starting August 1, 2003 and up to the closing date of June 30, 2006. Table C
below describes the allocation of the Grant proceeds accordingto each expenditure category. Retroactive
financing would be available for eligible expenditures incurred after May 31, 2003, up to a maximumof
US$0.5 million equivalent.

                                 Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds

             Expenditure Category               Amount inUS$            Financing Percentage
                                                    million
       1.Works                                       3.79                         85%

       2. Goods                                      5.86                  100% foreign, and
                                                                       85% of localexpenditures
       3. Consultants Services                       1.63                95% (excluding VAT)
                                                                         81% (including VAT)
       4. Operating Costs"'                          0.09                         85%

       5. Unallocated('l)                            1.13

       Total Grant Costs                             12.50

      (i)Operating costs would include rent of ofice and storage spaces, insurancecosts,
      communicationcosts, ofice supply, utility charges, banking charges and domestic travel.
      Auditing will be covered under consultancyservices.
      (ii)Contingencies


74.     Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Disbursement from the Grant Special Account will
be fully documented for (i)contracts for goods costing more than the equivalent of $100,000;
(ii)contracts for works costing more than the equivalent of $500,000; (iii)
                                                                          contracts costing more than the
equivalent of $100,000 for services of consulting fim; and (iv) contracts costing more than the
equivalent of $50,000 for services of individual consultants. Disbursement for all other expenditures will
be made against SOEs with supporting documentation retained at the PMUpremises and made available
for IDA'Sreview during supervision. SOEs will be subject to an annual audit and semi-annual review by
an independent auditor, as well as periodic review by the financial management analyst at the Country
Office.


                                                   21

75.     Special Account (SA). A SA will be opened by MOF in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA
in order to facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures under the Grant. The SA would be
operated by the PMU under terms satisfactory to IDA. IDA would, upon request, make an authorized
allocation of 10 percent of the Grant. This percentage will be reviewed once implementation has
commenced for a possible increasedepending on the speed of disbursement.

76.     The SA replenishment applications will be documented according to IDA guidelines, including a
bank statement of the SA, and a reconciliation bank statement of the SA against IDA records.
Replenishment applications will be submitted regularly (preferably bimonthly, butnot less than monthly).

SECTION F. FINANCIALAND ECONOMIC            JUSTIFICATION

77.     The proposed emergency Project i s being prepared under emergency recovery assistance
procedures (OP 8.50).     Limited time and availability of economic data prevent detailed analysis, a
recognized constraint in preparing such operations. However, a preliminary analysis was undertaken and
the findings indicate that if the data for the Western villages are representative for the whole Hebron
Governorate, the economic rate of return of the program i s estimated at 21 percent. If the Bani Na'im
well field and associated transmission as well as the Halhoul-Dura pipeline are excluded, thus including
only the investments destined to the Western villages, the rate of return drops to 10percent.

SECTION   G. ACTION PLAN

78.     The following have been agreedas conditions of effectiveness:

        0   Conclusion of a Subsidiary Agreement between the Palestine Liberation
            OrganizatiodPalestinianAuthority and the Palestinian Water Authority, satisfactory to IDA.
        0   Submissionto IDA of a legal opinion that the Trust FundGrant Agreement has been duly
            authorized or ratified by the Recipient and i s legally bindingupon the Recipient in
            accordance with its terms. The legal opinion shall also statethat the Subsidiary Agreement
            has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and deliveredon behalf of, the parties
            thereto, and is legally bindingupon them, inaccordance with its terms.




                                                     22

                  Annexl: LogicalFrameworkand Key PerformanceIndicators

  Hierarchy of Objectives           Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy    Critical Assumptions and
                                       Indicators                                                  Risks
Sector-related WBG            Sector indicators:          Sector I country report:  (From Goal to BankMission)
Assistance Strategy Goal:
1. Continue developing        1.1Improved service         WBG AssistanceStrategy    Favorablepolitical climate and
essentialand sustainable      coverage.                   progress reports.         continued commitment of donors
infrastructure systems and                                                          to support the Palestinianpeople.
services.                                                 Economic and Sector
                                                          Reports.
2. Continue providing         2.1 Continueddonor
analytical andprogrammatic    coordination towards the
leadershipto the collective   supportof the water sector
effort to assistingwith the   andthe PWA.
emergency situation.
                              2.2 Increaseddonor aid
                              mobilized towards water
                              Fector
Project Development           Outcome I Impact            Project Reports           (From Objective to Goal)
Objective:                    Indicators

Help alleviate the chronic    Increaseinquantity of water PWA quarterly and annual  Donor financing is timely
shortages of safe water       supplied(MCM).              reports.                  available for implementation of
supplies, and reducesystem                                                          proposeddonor-financed
losses, water costs andhealth                             User surveyreports.       portions of the EIP.
risks inthe southernarea of
the West Bank                                                                       Levelof violence does not
                                                                                    escalate to the point where
                                                                                    investmentsare destroyedor
                                                                                    unableto be maintained.

Outputs for each              Output indicators:          Project reports:          (From Outputs to Objective)
component:
1.Successfulrehabilitation of 1.1Number of new            Project supervision and   Levelof violence does not
planneddistribution networks  iousehold connections.      progressreports.          escalate and mobility of staff and
and transmissionpipelines,                                                          workers allow supervision and
namely:                       1.2 Number of household     Construction manager      maintenanceof investments
                              :onnections rehabilitated.  progressreports.          financed by the project.
- EH#2well i s equipped and
transmissionpipeline is       1.3 Length of water         User's survey reports.    Construction manager ensures
completed.                    Jipelines installed and                               quality of goods and equipment,
- Halhoul-Nuba transmission   .ehabilitated(km).                                    as well as of the implementation
pipeline is completedand                                                            of works.
Kharas reservoir is built.
- Kharasand Nuba
distribution networks are
rehabilitated.




                                                         23

  Hierarchy of Objectives          Key Performance          DataCollectionStrategy     Critical Assumptions and
                                       Indicators                                                  Risks
2 PMUadequately monitors      2.1Identified packagesare
project implementation.       tendered and completed
                              satisfactorily in accordance
                              to the project plan.

                              2.2 Engineering designs and
                              biddingdocuments for the
                              Dura and Yatta villages are
                              satisfactorily completed.
 Project ComponentdSub-        Inputs: (budget for each        Project reports:         (From Components to
         components:                  component)                                                 Outputs)

1.Rehabilitation and          IDA:US$11.4million           Project supervision and  Pipes, fittings and construction
improvement o f water supply                               progress reports.        material are permitted to enter
transmission and distribution                                                       project sites, at a reasonable cost
systems.                                                                            and without delays.

2. Technical Assistance and   IDA: US$2.0 million                                   Workers and staff are able to
Capacity Building                                                                   travel to project site.

                                                                                    Auditor and technical
                                                                                    consultants are hired without
                                                                                    delays.




                                                          24

                                     Annex 2: Project Costs and Financing


                                             West BankandGaza: EmergencyWater Project
                                                       EstimatedProjectCosts


Proiect C!m"ent                                                          Locall  Foreign1   Totall   IDA1   PA

a) EquipingtheEastHerodianWell
  1.1Supplyandinstallationofequipmntfor EastH e r " Well                  0.00       1.82    1.82    1.82   0.00

b) EastHerodianPipeline
2.1F'rocuremntofMaterials-EastHerdanPipeline                              0.00       1.36    1.36    1.36   0.00
2.2 InstallationofPipes-East HerodianPipeline                             0.91      0.00    0.91     0.77   0.14

c) Halhoul NubaPipelie
            -
3.1Prccuremnt ofMaterials- Halhoul-NubaPipeline                           0.00      2.27    2.27     2.27   0.00
3.2InstallationofPipes- Halhoul-NubaPipeline                               1.45     0.00     1.45    1.24   0.22
~~




 d) KharasReservoir
4.1 KharasReservoir                                                       0.36      0.00    0.36     0.31   0.05

 e) RehabilitationofNubaandKharasDistributionNetworks
 5.1Rehabilitationworksof W a s DistributionNetwork                       0.86      0.00    0.86     0.73   0.13
 5.2GoodsforRehabilitationofKharasDistributionNetwork                     0.18      0.07    0.25     0.22   0.03
 5.3RehabilitationworksNubaDistributionNehvork                            0.86      0.00    0.86     0.73   0.13
 5.4 Goodsfor RehabilitationofNubaDistrib.Network                         0.12      0.08    0.20     0.18   0.02




                                                              25

              Annex 3: Selected Water Supply, Populationand Poverty Data



 Figure 1: Populationand Water Consumption by Community, Hebron Governorate, West Bank, 2001




        18000                                                                         100
        160000                                                                        90
                                                                                      80
      s:100000
      - 140000                                                                            _ _
                                                                                         2
      d                                                                               70
      a 120000
                                                                                      60
      6
      01                                                                              50
         8oooO
      $                                                                               40  5
         6Mx)O                                                                        30
      0 40000
      2                                                                                  s
                                                                                      20
         2000                                                                         10
             0                                                                        0




                    -Total  Population        +Awage  Consumptionper capita (UCID)



  Source: See TableA5-3 below.

Table 1: Populationand CommunitiesServed by Piped Water Supply by Governorate, West Bank2001




                                              26

          Table 2: Water Supply and Consumptionby Governorate, West Bank 2001




Table 3  Populationand Water Supply by Municipality and Village, Hebron Governorate2001




                                         27

                                                                     Average   Average
                                               Total               Supplyper  Consumption
                                  Total      Population  Supply      wm)
                                                                     capita   percapita
          COlllIIIunitY         Population    Served      (MC)     r         ' .(L/C/D) 1
 27 I        Beit Awwa            7041         7041       97716        38         27
 ~

 28              Dura             18185        18185      9268         1           1
 29             Qilqis             766          766       6280         22         15
 30
 _.          AI-Sikkeh             680          680       10404        42         29
 31              Twas              123          123       1018         23         16
 33           Al-Majd              1535        1535      33050         59         41
 34     DirA1-Asal Afuqa           1560                                            0
 35     Dir AI-AsaI Atahta         515         515        5234         28         20
36      KherbitAbu Hamid           90           90        1132         34         24
 37          Al-Rebeieh           2941         2941       12754        12          8
38      Beit Al-Rush Altahta       419         419         874         6          4
39      Beit AI-RushAlfuga         814         814        8708         29         20
40           Beit Amra            1433         1433        48          0           0


42            AI-Bireh             263         263        1620         17         12
43            Al-Buri             2079         2079       3786         5          4




Notes: 1) MCM = Million Cubic Meter; Vc/d = Liters Per Capita per day
                                                        -    -
       2) Consumptionestimatedat 70%of supply
Source: Water Supply in the WestBankfor Year 2001, PWA, December 2002.




                                              28

 Table 4       Estimated LocalPoverty Rates, West Bank and Gaza, 1997


         District               Locality       Incidenceof Poverty     NumberofPoor
                                                    (% OfLoeal
                                                    Population)       '  ("0%)
                          I                                                          1

        West Bank
           Jenin               AIYamun                  28                10.1
           Jenin                 Jenin                  21                12.3
           Jenin                Ya'bad                  40                23.9
          Jenin                Qabatiya                 31                14.7




         Nablus                 Nablus                  7                 13.8
         Nablus                 Qabalan                 20                 4.4
I        Nablus           I     Biddva        I         16          I      5.2       I
         Nablus                  Salfit                 13                 1.9
         Nablus                A1Jiftlik                51                 3

       Total Nablus                                     13                44.9
        Ramallah               Bani Zeid                17                 5.3
        Ramallah                Bir Zeit                10                 2.9
        Ramallah                Silwad                  10                 3.4
        Ramallah               Beitunya                 14                 6.4
        Ramallah               Ramallah                 4                  3.1

      Total Ramallah                                    10                 21
        Jerusalem               AIRam                   2                  1.3
        Jerusalem               Biddu                   4                  0.9
        Jerusalem              AbuDis                   3                  0.7

     Total Jerusalem                                    3                  2.9


                                             29

         District           Locality      Incidenceof Poverty  NumberofPoor
                                              (% 5fLolxd
                                              Population)        ('ooo's)
                        I                I                   I
    BethlehedJericho        Jericho               25               6.8
    BethlehedJericho       Beit Sahur             12                3
    BethlehedJericho       Bethlehem              9                 5
    BethlehedJericho       A1Khader               14               4.3
    BethlehedJericho         Tuqu'                35               7.8

 Total BethlehedJericho                           17                27
         Hebron           Beit Ummar              25               6.9
         Hebron           Tarqumiya               31               8.7
         Hebron             Halhul                24               9.2
         Hebron             Hebron                15               23.5
         Hebron              Dura                 31               22.9
         Hebron           AdhDhahiriya            35               7.7
         Hebron              Yatta                45               28.4

       Total Hebron                               27              107.3
          Gaza
          Gaza              Jabalya               35               64.9
           Gaza            Gaza City              34               124
           Gaza           KhanYunis               39               136.8



Bank, January 2001.




                                      30

                            Annex 4: Project Processing Schedule
                Project Schedule                     Planned                 Actual
  Time taken to prepare the project (months)            -                       5
  FirstBank mission (identification)                    -                  03/03/2003
  Appraisal mission departure                       5/09/2003               5/13/2003
  Negotiations                                      5/20/2003               6/24/2003
  Planned date o f effectiveness                    9/15/2003


  Bank staff who worked on the project included:

 Name                                           Title
  Avman Abu-Haiia                               Sr. Financial Management Snecialist
1 Frederick P. Kranz                          I Procurement Advisor                      I
  George Awwad                                  Consultant
  Hadi Abushakra                                Lead Counsel
  Kingsley Robotham                             Consultant
I Lizmara Kirchner
  MajedEl-Bayya                               I ProgramOperations
                                                         Assistant
                                                Senior            Officer
___
  Manuel Schiffler                              Economist
  Nawaf Al-Mahamel                              Counsel

1 Suhail Jme'an                                 Task Manager. Sr. Financial Analvst
  Thao L e Nguyen                             I Finance Officer

  Ad-hoc Advisory Committee Members:

 Name                                           Title
  Alfred H.Nickesen                             Manager, OPCIL
  Aloysius Ordu                                 Operations Quality Adviser
  FranGoise Clottes                             Sector Manager
  Frederick P. Kranz                            Procurement Advisor
  Hadi Abushakra                                Lead Counsel
  Nicholas J. Krafft                            CountryProgram Coordinator
I NigelRoberts                                  CountrvDirector
  Suhail Jme'an                               I Task  Manager, Sr. Financial Analyst




                                             31


MAP SECTION


