                                      Document of
                                 The World Bank



                                                      Report No: ICR00001104




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (Grant No. TF052627)



                                         ON A

                              TRUST FUND GRANT

             IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$12.5 MILLION

                      TO THE PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY

                         FOR A WEST BANK AND GAZA

                        EMERGENCY WATER PROJECT




                                      June 29, 2009




Sustainable Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
    Currency Unit = New Israeli Shekel, Exchange Rate Effective March 7, 2009
                             NIS 1.00 = US$ 0.2356
                              US$ 1.00 = NIS 4.24

                                WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
           1 meter (m) - 3.281 feet (ft), 1 kilometer (km) -- 0.621 miles (mi)


                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

DFID        Department for International Development (UK)
EHW#2       East Herodian Well #2
EIP         Emergency Investment Program
EMP         Environmental Management Plan
EMSRP       Emergency Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project
EQA         Environmental Quality Authority
ERP         Emergency Response Program
ESSP        Emergency Services Support Project
EWOC        Emergency Water Operations Center
EWP         Emergency Water Project
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GNI         Gross National Income
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
JWC         Joint Water Committee
l/c/d       Liter per capita per day
MCM         Million Cubic Meters
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MNSSD       Middle East and North Africa, Sustainable Development Group
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
OP          Operational Policies
PA          Palestinian Authority
PLO         Palestinian Liberation Organization
PMU         Project Management Unit
PWA         Palestinian Water Authority
SAWSIP      Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project
TFGWB       Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
VAT         Value Added Tax
WBG         West Bank and Gaza
WSSP        Water and Sanitation Services Project

                            Vice President: Daniela Gressani
                          Country Director: A. David Craig
                           Sector Manager: Narasimham Vijay Jagannathan
                      Project Team Leader: Sana Kh. H. Agha Nimer
                         ICR Team Leader: Pier Francesco Mantovani
                            WEST BANK AND GAZA
                         EMERGENCY WATER PROJECT
                IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (Grant No. TF052627)




                                                       CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ...............................................
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...............................................
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 1
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 1
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 1
  6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................ 1

  Annexes
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 1
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component .................................................................................. 1
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 1
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............. 2
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 2
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 2
  Annex 7. Borrower Evaluation Report ......................................................................... 2
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 3
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 3
  Map ............................................................................................................................... 3
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Emergency Water
Country:                West Bank and Gaza        Project Name:
                                                                            Project
Project ID:             P065921                   L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-52627
ICR Date:               06/29/2009                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            PLO FOR THE
Lending Instrument:     ERL                       Borrower:
                                                                            BENEFIT OF PA
Original Total
                        USD 12.5M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 10.4M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Palestinian Water Authority
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process           Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/25/2003      Effectiveness:          12/27/2003           02/10/2004
Appraisal:             05/13/2003      Restructuring(s):
Approval:              07/29/2003      Mid-term Review:        03/31/2006           03/11/2006
                                       Closing:                06/30/2006           09/30/2008

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                            Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing                Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:            Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower            Moderately
                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:                Unsatisfactory




                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sub-national government administration                                4                      4
Water supply                                                          96                  96


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                  25                  25
Municipal governance and institution building                         13                  13
Other human development                                               13                  13
Rural services and infrastructure                                     25                  25
Water resource management                                             24                  24

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Daniela Gressani                     Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:          A. David Craig                       Nigel Roberts
Sector Manager:            Narasimham Vijay Jagannathan         Francoise Clottes
Project Team Leader:       Pier Francesco Mantovani             Suhail J. S. Jme'An
ICR Team Leader:           Pier Francesco Mantovani
ICR Primary Author:        Sati Achath


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 The main objective of the project is to help alleviate the chronic shortages of safe water
supplies, and reduce system losses, water costs and health risks.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



                                                ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target   Formally      Actual Value
                                               Values (from      Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval       Target       Completion or
                                                 documents)      Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Increase the quantity of water by 1.7 mcm
                                                                           Goal was not
                                                                           effectively nor fully
                                                                           achieved at project
                                                                           closure. Goal was
                                                                           achieved in mid-
                                                                           2009 as PWA
Value
                                          1.7mcm increased                 secured and
quantitative or
                                          in water quantity                installed a new
Qualitative)
                                                                           pump in HEW#2,
                                                                           and started
                                                                           operation of above-
                                                                           ground facilities
                                                                           completed by
                                                                           project.
Date achieved                             09/30/2007                       09/28/2008
Comments        Works are substantially completed towards achieving this goal, but pump
(incl. %        misprocurement has delayed actual delivery of service beyond project closure.
achievement) Suggested achievement : 50%

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                             Formally
                                            Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                           Revised
                                               approval                       Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                              documents)                      Target Years
                  Number of house connection rehabilitated
Indicator 1 :
                                           300 House
                                                                            450 and 400 house
                                           connections in
Value                                                                       connections have
                                           Kharas and
(quantitative                                                               been rehabilitated
                                           200 House
or Qualitative)                                                             respectively in
                                           connections in
                                                                            Kharas and Nuba
                                           Nuba rehabilitated
Date achieved                              09/30/2007                      05/28/2008
Comments
(incl. %      Connection rehabilitation goal was susbstantially exceeded. Achievement: 170%
achievement)
              Number of new house connections installed
Indicator 2 :
Value                                      200 new House                    150 and 300 new


                                                iii
(quantitative                               connections in                 connecetions are
or Qualitative)                             both Kharas and                installed in Kharas
                                            Nuba                           and Nuba
                                                                           respectively
Date achieved                          09/30/2007                          05/28/2008
Comments
(incl. %      New connection development goal was exceeded. Achievement: 112%
achievement)
              Length of new water pipes laid and exsiting pipes rehabilitated (km)
Indicator 3 :
                                                                           85 km of pipelines
                                                                           were laid: EH2
                                                                           pipeline is complete
                                                                           (7.5km); Halhul
                                                                           Kharas Nuba
Value                                       90.5 km of water
                                                                           pipelines are
(quantitative                               pipes installed and
                                                                           complete (12.5km).
or Qualitative)                             rehabilitated
                                                                           Networks in Kharas
                                                                           and Nuba (33.6 km
                                                                           and 31.2 km resp.)
                                                                           are complete. Total
                                                                           of 85 km.
Date achieved                               09/30/2007                     05/28/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Pipes laid and/or rehabilitated goal was attained. Achievement: 94%
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Packages for Yatta & Dura identified and detailed engineering designs
                                            Detailed
                                                                             Detailed
                                            engineering
                                                                             engineering Design
Value                                       Design and Tender
                                                                             and Tender
(quantitative                               Documents
                                                                             Documents for
or Qualitative)                             completed for both
                                                                             Yatta and Dura
                                            Yatta and Dura
                                                                             villages completed
                                            villages.
Date achieved                               09/30/2007                       05/28/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Design and Tender documents delivered. Achievement: 100%
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                           IP             Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     09/30/2003           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   0.00
  2     03/31/2004           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   0.00
  3     06/22/2004           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   1.25
  4     12/22/2004           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   1.89



                                                 iv
  5    03/24/2005       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory           2.64
  6    12/02/2005       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory           5.06
  7    06/27/2006       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory           6.13
  8    06/29/2006       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory           6.13
  9    12/21/2006       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory           7.22
 10    06/25/2007       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory           9.64
 11    09/17/2007   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   10.17
 12    05/29/2008   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   10.81


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                              v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Country and Sector Background: At appraisal in May 2003, years of protracted and often-violent
conflict had devastated the economy of the West Bank and Gaza (WBG) and caused tremendous
social and economic hardship. The economy had shrunk by half, with Gross National Income
(GNI) losses exceeding US$5.4 billion - the equivalent of one year of wealth creation. Real
private Gross Domestic Product (GDP - measured at factor cost) had declined by almost 30
percent. The movement of people and goods were severely restricted both internally and between
the Palestinians and Israeli areas. Unemployment had increased from 10 percent of the labor force
in the third quarter of 2000 to about 42 percent at the end of September 2002. About 60 percent of
households had lost more than half of their income, and the number of poor had tripled to more
than 2 million, about 60 percent of the total population. In addition, the poor were getting poorer,
with average daily consumption slipping from US$1.47 to US$1.32. The incidence of acute
malnutrition among children had increased to 13.3 percent in Gaza, and families had been forced
to liquidate their savings, accumulate debt, and resort to family and/or other social networks as a
way to cope with the crisis.

The crisis had also resulted in serious damage to infrastructure and institutions in the WBG. The
impact had been particularly severe on roads, electricity services, public facilities, housing, and
there had also been serious damage to activity and household income, and the resulting inability
and/or unwillingness of citizens and businesses to pay for essential services, municipal revenues
had declined sharply, in some cases by as much as 50 percent, worsening the capacity of
municipalities and villages to handle the situation. Supplies and spare parts had also been
depleted, and access to networks to undertake essential maintenance and repairs had been
curtailed by extensive Israeli military blockades, closures and curfews. As a result, roads,
waterlines and sewers had gone un-repaired for long periods of time, and in many municipalities
the streets were strewn with garbage, posing a challenge to public health.

In addition, supply of water by tankers had been severely restricted due to difficulties caused by
frequent closures and checkpoint delays. Thus, the availability of safe and reliable supply of
water had decreased significantly in many towns and villages. Large portions of the population
had been without water for extended periods, and the already low levels of household water
consumption had plummeted. Health risks had also increased because of failed wastewater and
chlorination systems.

The above had taken a particular toll on the water and sanitation sector, and significantly
increased water insecurity: People were much poorer; many had no cash income since September
2000, making the purchase of water from vendors increasingly difficult. It was also very difficult
to obtain credit from vendors or through social connections. As a result of closures and other
movement restrictions, the cost of tanker transport had increased, making water more expensive
and putting additional economic burden on households. Data gathered in the field suggested that
the price of water supplied by tanker had increased five-fold in many villages in the southern
West Bank, from about NIS 4 (US$0.88) to NIS 20 per cubic meter. Waiting times for services
were much longer, and water supply was erratic. During the summer season, the period of very
severe water restriction had increased from 2-3 months to about 5-6 months.



                                                 1
Water supply provided to many municipalities and villages from Israeli sources was increasingly
erratic, due largely to discretionary and unpredictable Israeli rationing and lock-offs. People in
the smaller municipalities and villages were increasingly resorting to water sources not fit for
human consumption, with typically dirty or infested cisterns used for watering livestock.

Rationale for Bank assistance: The Bank had considerable global experience in designing and
implementing operations in response to natural disasters and emergencies arising in conflict-
affected settings. The number of Bank-supported emergency recovery projects had increased in
the last several years, and the Bank had come a long way in its own understanding of how to
operationalize sustainable interventions in emergency situations. In WBG in particular, the Bank
was often relied upon by the PA and donors to lead such efforts, and had done so successfully.
For example:

        The first three operations implemented by the Bank in WBG were all emergency in
        nature and benefited from simplicity in design, while contributing toward the
        establishment of Palestinian implementation capacity, given its absence at the outset.

        The Bank had already demonstrated an ability to respond rapidly and effectively to the
        current crisis in WBG through it s US$12 million contribution to the Emergency
        Response Program (ERSP), launched in December 2000 - only two months after the start
        of the second Intifada - in which the Bank and five other donors provided over US$37
        million to create temporary employment opportunities through small-scale infrastructure
        micro-projects.

        The Bank's ability to mobilize resources and contribute by providing a framework for
        other donor assistance was illustrated by the Emergency Services Support Project
        (ESSP), which had mobilized over US$45 million in donor co-financing.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The main objective of the project was to help alleviate the chronic shortages of safe water
supplies, and reduce system losses, water costs and health risks.

Key Outcome Indicator was:

        Increase in quantity of water supplied (MCM).

Key Output Indicators were:

        Number of new household connections
        Number of household connections rehabilitated
        Length of water pipelines installed and rehabilitated (km)
        Identified packages were tendered and completed satisfactorily in accordance to the
        project plan.
        Engineering designs and bidding documents for the Dura and Yatta villages were
        satisfactorily completed.




                                                2
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The objective was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The beneficiaries of the project were the estimated 90,000 people in the Western Hebron villages
who would receive improved water supply. This would translate into improved health and
hygiene through higher quantities and better quality of water and reduced expenditures for buying
water from water vendors.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project consisted of two components as follows:

Component 1. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Water Supply Transmission and Distribution
System (US$ll.4 million)

The activities included:

        East Herodian Well Equipment and Transmission Pipeline (US$4.5 million).This sub-
component financed: a) the supply and installation of electromechanical works for the existing
East Herodian water well number two (EH#2), including well pump, booster pump and
accessories, at an estimated cost of US$2.0 million; and b) the supply and installation of about 7.5
km of 16-inches diameter ductile iron water transmission pipeline to convey the water from EH#2
to the existing main north-south carrier at an estimated cost of US$2.5 million.

       HalhoulKharasINuba Transmission Pipeline (US$4.4 million).This sub-component
financed the installation of about 15km of 6 to 16-inch diameter ductile iron water transmission
pipeline from the existing Halhoul regional water reservoir (capacity 25,000m3, financed by
USAID) to Kharas and Nuba villages.

        Distribution Network Rehabilitation Package (US$2.5 million).This sub-component
financed the rehabilitation of existing water networks in the villages of Kharas (about 34km of
different diameter pipes) and Nuba (about 34km of different diameter pipes).

Component 2: Technical Assistance (US$2.0 million):

This component included: (i) strengthening of the existing PMU within PWA to enable it to
effectively supervise project execution, and collaborate with other donors in the creation of a
framework for the development of joint services council clusters, that would be responsible for
operating and maintaining retail water distribution throughout the project area; (ii) the preparation
of designs and bidding documents for the Dura and Yatta villages' distribution networks for
implementation under a proposed follow-on project; and (iii) PMU's incremental operating costs.

1.6 Revised Components

The revisions to the components included the rehabilitation of Beit Ula network and the
construction of the main power cables to the EH well#2. The project also funded the construction


                                                 3
of the Kharas reservoir with a storage capacity of 1000 cm, and after it was completed, it is now
part of the integral system of Kharas-Nuba-Beit Ula water works.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

Aside form the above component adaptation, there were no changes in the project's design and
implementation arrangements. However, there were changes in the project's schedule and
funding allocation:

Project Schedule was revised three times. The closing date was extended first by one year from
June 30, 2006 to June 30, 2007, due to delays in effectiveness and it was extended for a second
time for a period of three months (through September 30, 2007). Both extensions were done to
accommodate the delays caused by the ongoing security situation. The third extension was for
one year from September 30, 2007 to September 30, 2008, due to the prevailing difficult security
conditions and delays in delivery of materials and equipment. This extension was particulalrly
needed for the completion of the construction of East Herodian 2 well and pumping station (EH2).
A grace period closure extension was also granted from Jan 31, 2009 through March 31, 2009.

Funding allocations. During implementation, the Grant Agreement of $12.5 million was revised
two times to reallocate funds among expenditure categories. The reallocations are shown in the
table below. The first reallocation was done to increase the allocation under Category 1 to meet
expenditures for civil works, and the second reallocation was done to increase the allocation for
consultant services and audit cost (Category 3) and incremental operating costs (Category 4).
With a grace period extension ending on March 31, 2009, a final reallocation requested by the
Borrower on March 22, 2009 to "facilitate the closing of the project" was not processed.


                Category        Original     Reallocation ­   Reallocation ­
                                Allocation    October 2006      March 2007

                                 (USD)          (USD)            (USD)

             (1) Civil Works   3,790,000       8,160,000        8,160,000

               (2) Goods       5,860,000       3,400,000        3,440,000

             (3) Consultant'   1,630,000       700,000           800,000
                services and
                 audit cost

             (4) Incremental    90,000          40,000           100,000
                  Operating
                    Costs

             (5) Unallocated   1,130,000       200,000              0

                 Total         12,500,000      12,500,000       12,500,000




                                                  4
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

During preparation, the project design took into account lessons learned from emergency
operations in WBG supported by the Bank. Likewise, the design considered the risk factors and
appropriate measures were adopted to mitigate all major risks identified at appraisal. The project
preparation and implementation benefitted from a participatory framework involving beneficiary
communities, operators, PWA and other donors (including USAID, AFD, FINNIDA) in decision-
making and cooperation towards i) improving water service at the local level, and ii) promoting
sustainable water operations at a regional scale. Within such framework, the project was
conceived as a building block towards an interconnected regional water supply system, itself the
backbone of a Southern Region utility envisioned under PWA's sector reform plans. The design
only included technically straightforward components, well matched to achieve the PDO. In
hindsight, the procurement plan of this emergency operation might have considered avoiding
time-consuming international competitive bidding (ICB) for equipment, when, under OP/BP 8.00
national emergency procurement procedures, if available, were allowable.

Lessons of earlier operations taken into account.

        An important lesson learned related to decentralization of project preparation and
        implementation, which greatly facilitated implementation at a time when central systems
        were unable to function effectively because of the security situation. Decentralization had
        worked well in all of the Bank-supported emergency projects in WBG.

        Water was at the time one of the few sectors in WBG where dialogue mechanisms were
        still in place between Palestinian and Israeli administrations. Considerable donor
        involvement was facilitating the dialogue between the parties, towards a shared interest in
        better management of scarce water, and mitigation of the health risks of failing service.

        The Joint Water Committee (JWC) of Palestinian and Israeli administrations for planning
        and permitting issues had to be mandatorily consulted to sort out project needs and to
        secure special access permits for contractors and consultants to facilitate the movement of
        equipment and workers.

        Contingency plans had to be developed to deal with crises and blockages that might arise.

Risks and their mitigation.

It was predicted that the project would face risks associated with the volatile political and security
situation, in particular if closures and curfews remained in place for an indefinite period. This risk
was widely acknowledged by the donor community and was addressed in part through the Task
Force on Implementation. The mobilization in the Task Force of major donors involved in
developing Southern Region water systems, proved effective in alleviating such project risks.

The following specific risks were identified along with measures to mitigate their impact:


                                                  5
        Low Well Yield. There was a risk of the EH#2 well yielding less than the necessary 200
        cubic meters per hour (CMPH) of water of acceptable quality. Test results had confirmed
        that the required quantity and quality of water was obtainable from the well.

        Procurement: To further minimize potential risks during the implementation phase, the
        contracting would be done separately for equipping the EH#2 well, the goods needed for
        the two pipelines, the works related to the installation of the pipelines, and the
        rehabilitation works for the villages of Kharas and Nuba. The equipping of the EH#2 well
        and goods would be tendered and awarded using International Competitive Bidding
        (ICB) procedures, using the standard bidding documents for supply and installation of
        equipment, as well as the standard bid evaluation report for goods and works. PWA
        would be assisted by an international consulting firm in preparing these documents in
        accordance with Bank procurement guidelines. National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
        procedures would be used for the installation of the pipelines and rehabilitation of the
        village networks. The risks of increased complexity of supervision associated with this
        approach were mitigated by the employment of an experienced, internationally recruited
        construction manager.

        Delays in finalizing bidding documents: PWA would prepare the bidding documents in
        accordance with the World Bank procurement guidelines.

        Israeli Permissions: PWA had secured written confirmation from the Joint Water
        Committee and the Israeli authorities indicating their willingness to facilitate the
        movement of the contractors and goods to and from the project sites.

        Project Management: Although the PMU was competent, it also had many other
        responsibilities. Thus, further local technical expertise (project manager and procurement
        specialist) and an internationally recruited construction manager would be employed
        under the project to help oversee progress and manage the procurement issues that could
        arise.

        Donor Coordination: The project was part of a wider program of relief and improvement
        for the southern West Bank, and had been developed in coordination with other donors,
        who were expected to be working in parallel. Delays in the implementation of other
        donor-financed components were a risk that was mitigated by the project's freestanding
        design.

In hindsight, despite such risk mitigation, the Project featured an unusual level of difficulty due to
the highly disruptive security context and to the governance and capacity limitations of the
Borrower, which could have prompted added Bank local supervision presence and handholding.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

There was a delay of seven months for the project to become effective. This delay was caused by
several factors such as: (i) the time taken for completing the project documentation, receiving the
legal opinion, and sorting out procedural issues on the part of the PA; (ii) disagreements between




                                                  6
the PWA and the U.S. consulting firm on the project design and other technical aspects; and (iii)
the delay in tendering different packages on the part of PWA.

The project was not restructured. The Bank conducted a Midterm Review (MTR) in March 2006,
to evaluate the project performance towards meeting its development objectives. The MTR
covered the following main topics: (a) reassessment of the project's original development
objectives; and (b) review of the implementation progress to date. Procurement performance ad
options to accelerate project implementation were assessed. No single issue was identified
requiring project restructuring or project design changes.

Factors outside government or implementation agency control

The project implementation was delayed due to difficult security conditions and delays in getting
Israeli Defense Force (IDF) clearance for electrical connections and the finalization of the well
pump. Also, the change in local politics and establishment of a Hamas government has
complicated the works with the boycotting from the Israeli and international community to the
activities. The change in the political scene had led to the boycotting of the US pump
manufacturer to the EH well #2 project, and led to confusion regarding the replacement of the
source with an alternate equivalent source.

Factors subject to government or implementation agency control

(i) Construction of EH2 Transmission Pipeline experienced initial delays for the following
reasons: (i) the design alignment of the pipeline was changed in certain locations according to
instructions from the Israeli authorities to avoid the entrance of an Israeli settlement in the area.
Such changes led to an increase in the cost of the construction especially with the Israeli demand
to make encasements on parts of the transmission line; and (ii) sub-standard quality of initial
detailed shop drawing was submitted by the contractor.

(ii) Project outcome was severely affected by the because of the Misprocurement declared by
the Bank in September 2008 on the Contract for the supply and construction of East Herodian
Well No. 2 Pumping Station. The background for misprocurement is as follows:

        In June 2007, the PWA found that there were major discrepancies between the
        information submitted by the Contractor for the furnished submersible pumps and the
        technical specifications for these pumps, which were part of the Contract. Further
        testing by an independent third party in November 2007, which was initiated at PWA's
        request, confirmed that these pumps were unacceptable and lacked proper certification
        from the manufacturer concerning the test results provided by the Contractor. Finally,
        on February 20, 2008, in a letter to PWA the Bank declared the cost of the pumps as an
        ineligible expenditure and requested a refund of payments made for them.

        The PWA had instructed the Contractor in March 2008 to replace the previously
        furnished pumps with new pumps that would meet the technical specifications.
        According to information received from the PWA, the Contractor seemed to be
        agreeable to the PWA's request at first. However, even seven months after the PWA
        made its request, the Contractor had neither replaced the pumps, nor had the PWA
        exercised due diligence invoking in due time the PWA's contractual rights and
        remedies vis-a-vis the Contractor. This had raised serious concerns about the
        achievement of the project objectives set out in the TFGA to alleviate chronic shortages



                                                 7
        of safe water supply. Finally the PWA issued the termination notice to the Contractor
        on September 17, 2008; but the view of the Bank was that, this action was not
        exercised in due and timely manner as required of the PWA under the Contract.

        Based on the above findings, the Bank concluded that, according to the General
        Conditions applicable to the TFGA, the procurement of the Contract financed out of the
        proceeds of the Grant was inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in
        the TFGA and decided to cancel the equivalent of US$3,116,903.14 (the value of the
        Contract), as of September 26, 2008, from Schedule 1 to the TFGA Since
        US$1,847,333.34 had already been withdrawn against this Contract, the PWA was
        requested to refund the said amount no later than December 31, 2008. The grace period
        for grant closure was later extended to March 31, 2009. On March 27, 2009, a letter
        was received from the Palestinian Authority asking for an additional extension through
        June 30, 2009. As of June 16, 2009 such reimbursement has not been recorded.

        The Bank's Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) also conducted missions in regards to the
        East Herodian well contract issues. These investigations led to close collaboration with
        the MNACS, country and sector management teams in engagement with the clients
        between 2007 and 2008 when the project was closed after declaring misprocurement.
        However, no final report has been issued by INT as yet.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design. The project's Outcome and Output Indicators were vaguely defined and did not
have specific targets on these indicators. In addition, while the objective of the project was to
reduce system losses, water costs and health risks, no indicators were included in the design to
measure or calculate the achievement of these goals at the end of the project. Further, no baseline
values were available at the beginning of the project.

M&E implementation. PWA was regularly collecting data on the output indicators such as the
number of new household connections, number of household connections rehabilitated, and
length of water pipelines installed and rehabilitated. The Bank's task team also followed up with
the PMU on a constant basis. These data were closely monitored and the actual figures were
compared with the target values.

M&E utilization. Appropriate data collected from PWA was evaluated and used to inform
decision-making on certain activities. For example, reallocation of funds between categories was
done based on this data on networks, reservoirs etc.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Financial Management Review. The FM performance is rated "Moderately Unsatisfactory". The
financial management system including accounting, auditing and reporting was adequate and
consistent with the Bank's financial management requirements. However, there is weakness in
the internal controls, which is attributed to the lack of segregation of duties, where the accounting
and procurement functions are handled by the same person. In addition, the Financial Procedures
Manual was not completed for this Project, which is necessary to provide clear guidance to staff
on their duties and responsibilities and establish some internal controls in the process. All FMRs
including the financial audit reports and Management letters were submitted in a timely fashion,



                                                 8
with the exception of the 2008 audit report still pending as of June 2009, and found to be
satisfactory, in spite of the shortcomings described. The opinions rendered by the auditors to the
project's financial statements were "unqualified".

Despite performance generally considered moderately satisfactory through implementation, ,
delays experienced since closure to recover Designated Account balance justify an overall
"Moderately Unsatisfactory" FM rating. As of June 16, 2009, the outstanding DA balance is GBP
51,549.

Project implementation and the project's outcome are at risk with the "mis-procurement case on
the contract for the supply and construction of East Herodian Well No. 2 Pumping Station." On
February 20, 2008, in a letter to the PWA, the Bank declared the cost of the pumps as an
ineligible expenditure and requested a refund of payments made for them. The value of the
Contract is US$3,615,896.40. For procurement and other fiduciary issues, see discussion of
Misprocurement in Section 2.2

There were no safeguard issues related to the implementation of the project.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

(a) Transition arrangements. After the project closure, PWA has transferred the distribution assets
created under the project to the municipalities. The system is being put to fruition, as the
municipalities have the needed technical, financial, and institutional capacity to manage it. Despite
delays due to a court claim by the Contractor upheld through the spring of 2009, PWA has gained
access to the EH2-Well facilities, procured and installed a replacement pump in the well, and
transferred the operating production asset to West Bank Water Department (WBWD).

The Joint Service Councils are responsible for the operation and maintenance. They may need
additional help since the economic and political conditions do not favor ideally sustainable
operations. However, the systems are in place and the JSC can sustain the works. On the other
hand, the bulk transmission pipeline should be operated and maintained by the National Water
Utility which is the transformed WBWD that has been operational since 1967.
(b) List of performance indicators. The same set of monitoring and evaluation indicators that
were developed under the project will be used as part of the local governments' regular
operations. As sector regulator, PWA will further be collecting and analyzing, on an yearly basis,
the information on services in the communities.

(c) Suggested priority and optimum timing of any future impact evaluation. Well operations have
reportedly started in May 2009. Currently, the well has been equipped with a new pump supplied
by USAID. It will be important to make an evaluation after three years and see whether the
quality and quantity of water has improved.

(d) Sustaining reforms and institutional capacity. Since March 2008, new PWA leadership has
engaged the agency on a path of governance reform, strategic realignment and capacity building.
Implementation of recommendations of an "Audit of Projects and Operations" conducted in 2008
has begun, towards more efficient investment programs and operations. Governance and capacity


                                                9
weaknesses identified in a Bank-completed "Assessment of Restrictions on Palestinian Water
Sector Development" have been fully acknowledged by PWA, and are beginning to be addressed
under agency and sector restructuring strategies.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The objective of the project to help alleviate the chronic shortages of safe water supplies, and
reduce system losses, water costs and health risks was and is still very relevant for the targeted
communities and for the Hebron governorate, considering that this region features the most
serious and chronic shortages of clean water of the West Bank. Project design proved
straightforward and the components, once in service, are assured to deliver more water and to
reduce losses, costs and health risks. Despite the need to revise selected engineering documents
for quality, the components are well suited to local implementation and operating capacities. The
project is also consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy for Palestine.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

Moderately Unsatisfactory

The project was rated satisfactory to moderately satisfactory throughout supervision. The project
indeed succeeded in completing the following activities:

        EH2 Transmission Pipeline: Installed 7.5 km of ductile iron pipe 16" (400 mm)
        diameter conveying water from the EH2 well to the existing main north-south bulk
        transmission line east of Beit Fajjar.

        Halhul-Kharas-Nuba Transmission Pipeline: Installed about 12km of 12" - 16"
        diameter ductile iron pipe from the existing Halhoul regional reservoir (which is
        supplied by various wells) to the western Hebron villages (Kharas Nuba villages). This
        will benefit approximately 34,000 persons.

        Kharas Village Reservoir (Capacity 1,000m 3). This reservoir, which has been
        constructed under the project, is an essential part of the main system serving the
        western area of Hebron governorate and benefiting approximately 12,000 persons.

        Kharas Village Distribution Network. Installed 33.6 km HDPE internal distribution
        pipes as well as 600 household connections. This will benefit approximately 7,300
        persons.

        Nuba Village Distribution Network. Installed 31.2 km HDPE internal distribution pipes
        as well as 700 household connections. This package was completed in May 2007 and
        will benefit approximately 4,550 persons.




                                                10
        Supply and Installation of Beit Ula Village Distribution Network. Installed about 11 km
        steel pipe of various diameters for Beit Ula. This will benefit approximately 9,600
        persons.

Based on construction of such infrastructure outputs, supervision reported very high achievement
levels (as high as 93% in September 2007), while the East Herodian Well #2 pump, essential to
add water to the above network components, was still being installed. The last supervision
mission reported moderately satisfactory progress and completion of project components,
expecting resolution of contract issues surrounding the delivery and installation of the proper
pump. Such issues could not however be resolved in a timely manner, and by project closure, had
in fact led to declaration of Misprocurement as mentioned in Section 2.2.

At closure in Septemner 2008, with the pump installation left incomplete, the project had very
substantially expanded and improved the water supply and distribution infrastructure of the
beneficiary communities but paradoxically fell short of actually contributing increased quantity
and quality of water supply in the expanded service areas. Such outcome was only achieved after
project closure in May 2009, after PWA was able to install and procure a new pump through
other fundings resources, fulfilling the scope of the misprocured contract. At closure nevertheless,
by rehabilitating and constructing the distribution networks in Kharas, Nuba and Beit Ula, in
addition to the construction of the Kharas reservoir as mentioned above, duly connected to pre-
existing inadequate water supply sources, the project had already facilitated reductions in
Unaccounted For Water (UFW), thereby de facto increasing the water supply.

In addition:

        With the new networks, and despite the inadequate availability of pre-existing sources of
        water, PWA is able to reduce its maintenance cost and provide better services to the
        residents, who in return, should feel more encouraged to pay their water bills. An
        agreement is in place between the West Bank Water Department (WBWD) and the
        communities that have been served, to schedule the accumulated debts as well as to pay
        current invoices. This strategy would help in collecting the water bills from the
        inhabitants.

         As residents are bound to getting more water from the pipelines, they do not have to buy
        water from vendors, and this reduces their expenses for getting water. While water tanker
        vendors used to sell 8 m3 of water for NIS120, the utilities are selling potable water at a
        price of NIS 5 per m3.

        Also, as chlorinated water reaches houses, the chances of spreading water-borne diseases
        are reduced considerably. It should be noted that water that is pumped through the water
        systems is chlorinated, and the PWA samples the different sources regularly.

On the whole, at closure, the project could not contribute significantly to the main objective of
alleviating the chronic shortages of safe water supplies. Although such outcome has reportedly
been attained since closure, the ICR team is of the view that a Moderately Unsatisfactory rating
unavoidably and reasonably applies to the conditions at closure.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)



                                                11
Prepared under emergency recovery assistance procedures (OP 8.50) the project was faced with
limited time and data for detailed efficiency analyses. Preliminary economic rate of return
estimates were advanced ranging between 10 and 21% with no derivation backup information.
Ex-post efficiency analysis was not deemed relevant at closure, since with "no water in the pipes",
project benefits could not be quantified.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

While the project substantially expanded and upgraded water supply infrastructure in the target
areas, misprocurement disrupted the installation of a crucial pump, preventing any alleviation of
water shortages by the time the project closed. The expected project outcome has been achieved
since, with a post-project pump installation by PWA. In light of this, and of the discussion given
in Sections 3.1 and 3.2, the overall outcome at closure is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

No information available. No substantial impacts at closure.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The project was implemented in parallel with other programs and projects in the Southern Area of
the West Bank. Accordingly, the EWP is seen as a project that complemented other programs
and projects that aim at restructuring and reforming the water sector. It should be noted that the
targeted areas; Kharas, Nuba and Beit Ula, are part of the Joint Service Council cluster that was
formed with the purpose of improving the services to the communities. The establishment of the
JSC is only one step in the strategic objective of the PWA to establish Regional Utilities.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Ratings: Moderate

The transmission pipelines, household connections, and the Kharas Village Reservoir constructed
under the project are already transferred to relevant operators, deemed sustainable in the context



                                               12
of the Palestinian water sector. Since the East Herodian Well has started operations after project
closure, it can be assumed that it is fully functioning and substantially increasing water deliveries,
thereby lowering the development outcome risk to low or negligible levels.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project objective was consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy for the WBG, and the
government priorities and met the critical needs of the water sector. During preparation and
appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project design and all major relevant
aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, and institutional, including procurement and
financial management. In addition, major risk factors and the lessons learned from emergency
operations in WBG supported by the Bank were considered and incorporated into the project
design. To this extent, the Bank performance was satisfactory.

On the other hand, the project design presented a major drawback in terms of key performance
indicators. For example, while the objective of the project was to reduce system losses, water
costs and health risks, no indicators were included in the design to measure or calculate the
achievement of these goals at the end of the project. In the absence of these relevant indicators
and without a baseline data, it is impossible to come to a conclusion on the success or failure of
the project. While it is understood that preparation of an emergency project in a post-conflict area
is bound to encounter a dearth of baseline data and monitoring capacity, in light of this major
shortcoming the overall quality at entry is rated moderately satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

Overall Bank performance during the implementation of the project was moderately satisfactory.
The task team focused on the project's development impact. The project was adequately
supervised and closely monitored. In addition to the headquarters-based TTL, project supervision
benefitted from West Bank-based fiduciary specialists accessible to the client. The task team
regularly prepared Aide-Memoires, alerted the Government and PWA about issues found during
project execution. The Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) realistically rated the performance
of the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project
implementation, although missing the eventual gravity of the EHW#2 pump procurement delays.
Supervision duly rated achievement assessment highly (93% in 2007) based on infrastructure
completion, the ultimate failure to install EHW#2 pump unraveling at the end of the project under
unpredictable circumstances.

Bank's procurement and financial management proficient staff worked with PMU staff to explain
the rules and procedures to be applied during project implementation, with regard to procurement


                                                   13
of goods and works, and selection of consultants, accounts and audits, based on the Grant
Agreement. In the client's opinion, the Bank supervision role could have been more responsive
to and supportive of PMU needs. The task team carried out a Mid-Term Review in March 2006 to
evaluate the project performance towards meeting its development objectives. An opportunity
was then missed improve the consistency of PDO and monitoring indicators. The task team also
effectively monitored safeguard and fiduciary compliances, and vigorously upheld Bank's
technical and fiduciary standards when needed. The assessment of complex EHW#2 issues also
benefitted from effective teamwork across Bank units.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

Based on the Bank performance during lending phase and supervision as discussed above, the
overall Bank Performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory.

While generally satisfactory through project closure, the Government performance must be rated
moderately unsatisfactory following the delays experienced beyond the grace period extension for
the refund of grant balance from the Designated Account and of the amounts due under the
misprocurement. It is acknowledged that overarching fiscal constraints may have contributed to
the delays.

The Government was however consistently committed to the project. Recognizing the increasing
threat to public health, the increased economic burden on households, and the financial and
operational constraints on municipalities and villages, in April 2002 the Palestinian Water
Authority established the Emergency Water Operations Center (EWOC). This was done in close
consultation with and strong support from the donor and nongovernmental organization (NGO)
community. The purpose of the EWOC was to assist in responding to the growing humanitarian
crisis through the prompt restoration of basic water and sanitation services in the West Bank.

Appropriate levels of review and approval were usually in place; financial accountability and
follow-up was observed, and expenditures were duly authorized before they were incurred; and
documentation was maintained properly for periodic review. The project did not suffer from any
counterpart funding problems. The Government also acted proactively in recognizing the
misprocurement situation and taking remedial governance measures.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

The PWA's performance was satisfactory in carrying out all aspects of project management, such
as financial management, procurement arrangements, reporting activities, and disbursements,
with the exception of the Misprocurement reported in Section 2.2 :

        Financial Management Review. The financial management system including accounting,
controls, auditing and reporting was adequate and satisfied the Bank's financial management
requirements. All FMRs reviewed were submitted on a timely basis and found to be satisfactory.
The financial audit reports were all received on time, with the exception of 2008 statements still



                                               14
pending, and the opinions in the Management Letters were "unqualified" in regard to the
project's financial statements.

        Procurement Arrangements. Procurement of all works, goods and technical services
under the project followed the Procurement Guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits". However, there was an issue of Misprocurement. For details see Section 2.2

        Reporting Arrangements. The PMU submitted all required quarterly and annual reports
more or less in a timely manner. These reports were informative, and provided valuable feedback
on how the PWA was progressing covering all project activities. The status of performance
indicators were incorporated in all progress reports and served as valuable input to Bank
supervision mission reports.

Limited proactivity in dealing with implementation issues, calling for the Bank's task team to
contact PWA management, combined with the issue of Misprocurement, would rate
unsatisfactory. However, a moderately satisfactory rating is justified, in light of the organizational
changes enacted by new PWA management since April 2008, and the high responsiveness
demonstrated in adressing the misprocurement.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

In light of the Government and PWA performance as discussed above, the overall performance of
the Client was moderately unsatisfactory.




6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

    Project Design:

            The design of an emergency project should be simple in nature, so that it is easy to
            develop and implement, towards likely achievement of the developments objective(s).
            Within the constraints of an emergency project preparation, it is important to develop
            a monitoring framework consistent with DOs and to ensure that baseline data is
            available.
            Project design should attempt to fully benefit from the simplifications afforded under
            OP/BP 8.00 for projects of emergency nature, including alternative procurement
            methods (e.g. national emergency procurement of selected goods, when available, in
            lieu of ICB).

    Implementation:

            It is critical to ensure that, despite prior borrowing and implementation experience
            with the World Bank, the management and staff of implementing agencies are indeed
            familiar and current with the Bank's guidelines and procedures, as well as with
            project management procedures before starting the project. Need for capacity
            building or refresher training should be assessed, and possibly addressed, during



                                                 15
       preparation, even in emergency project preparation, to facilitate project
       implementation (general applicability).

       In light of the EH Well #2 misprocurement, the implementing agency should be firm
       and strict in ensuring that the bidders will comply with the specifications mentioned
       in the tender documents. It should also ensure that the bidders will mention any
       alterations to specifications in the bidding document. Agency should also reject such
       alterations, unless exceptionally and transparently justified. The delegation of works
       supervision to a private consultant funded by another donor may also be avoided in
       the future to avoid discontinuities and dilution in liability and accountability.

       It is necessary, for future projects in the country to provide strong guidance and close
       support to the PMU from the outset, during its set-up and throughout the project life,
       including implementation. It is equally important to maintain qualified staff who is
       critical to the efficient implementation of the project. The manual of procedures
       should be available to the accounting and financial management staff as soon as the
       PMU is set-up to provide guidelines and procedures on the accounting and FM
       system and ensure internal controls are in place. The Bank FMS should supervise the
       project closely, at least three times or more on the first year of implementation and at
       least twice a year thereafter.

       When the project sites are located in high security areas, it is essential to guarantee
       unimpeded/free access to the contractors working on the sites, so that
       construction/installation work will progress without any interruption. In the case of
       the West Bank, cultivating communications and partnership with Israeli civil
       administration is paramount.

Monitoring and Evaluation:

       In order to determine the project's outcome and measure the outputs, all the
       performance indicators related to the project's objectives should be clearly defined at
       the beginning of the project itself. The project mid-term review should also then
       address opportunities to improve this framework, if needed through inclusion of a
       M&E specialist.
       In conflict areas such as West Bank and Gaza, where availability of basic service data
       can be limited, beneficiary surveys should be carried out before and after project
       completion to enable measuring the impact of the project. Despite the emergency
       nature of a project, borrower and implementing agency should be sensitized to this
       need.
INT Engagement

       An anonymous complaint received by INT regarding the East Herodian Well #2
       pumping station started an investigation with strong coordination between INT and
       Operations. It led to a series of transformative events as well as to a declaration of
       misprocurement. Since recognizing misprocurement, new PWA leadership has
       engaged in efforts to improve sector and agency governance. In this process the client
       has however brought to the attention of the Bank its concern that the investigation
       conclusions have not been finalized or disclosed. Going forward, timely completion
       of investigative outputs and reports will enhance the impact and enactment of
       governance and anti-corruption remedies by clients.


                                           16
     Community Participation

            Closer involvement and participation of beneficiary households and communities
            during the design and implementation stages is important in a project such as EWP.
            This would ensure that there will be more accountability from the implementing
            agency and contractors regarding the quality of equipment installed under the project.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

A direct account of the Borrower's experience is consigned in the Borrower Evaluation Report
filed by PWA and attached as Annex 7 to this report.

The following are Borrower's comments to the draft ICR.

PWA's response ton Section 5.1 (b):
In response to Section 5.1 the Borrower signals that due to time zone differences and disrupted
phone service, communications were problematic for the Washington-stationed TTL, reportedly
leading to delays in effective understanding of project difficulties. The Borrower also signals that
Bank's procurement specialists did not always provide the effective support especially in areas
where Bank's procurement guidelines contradict PA guidelines, holding PWA responsible to
solve the conflicts between the Bank's guidelines and the Ministry of Public Works guidelines.
The Borrower retains that in such instances Bank support was inadequate.

PWA's response to Section 5.2 (b):
The Borrower signals that alternative implementation and works supervision approaches were
suggested by the PMU which may have facilitated satisfactory project outcomes, but were met by
Bank insistence on completing the project as planned and on schedule.


(b) Cofinanciers
NA

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                17
                          Annex 1.            Project Costs and Financing


(a)     Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
(Total rows and percentage column will be calculated by the system)
                                Appraisal Estimate     Actual /Latest Estimate     Percentage of
        Components
                                  (US$ million)            (US$ million)            Appraisal
East Herodian Well                      4.50                    1.829              40.65%
Equipment and
Transmission Pipeline
Halhoul/Kharas/Nuba                     4.40                    3.048              69.28%
Transmission Pipeline
Distribution Network                    2.50                    2.721               1.09%
Rehabilitation Backage
Technical Assistance and                2.00                    1.247              62.36%
Capacity Building
         Total Baseline Cost            13.40                   8.845              65.91%
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
                                        13.40                   8.845              65.91%
         Total Project Costs

Project Preparation Facility
(PPF)
Front-end fee (IBRD only)
  Total Financing Required              13.40                   8.845              65.91%


(b)      Co-financing

(The appraisal estimate will be pre-populated from the Financing data in SAP/AUS;
Percentage of Appraisal column will be calculated by the system)


                                                  Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                             Type of                                                 Percentage of
 Source of Funds                                  Estimate           Estimate
                            Financing                                                 Appraisal
                                                (US$ million)      (US$ million)
[Government]           VAT Coverage                 0.90             0.565            62.89%
[IBRD/IDA]             Financing                    12.5                8.280         66.26%
                       Investment
[Donor A]              [WB-administered
                       TF]
[Donor B]              [Parallel financing]




                                                    18
                          Annex 2.        Outputs by Component

Component 1: Rehabilitation and Improvement of Water Supply and Distribution System.
Component 1.1 East Herodian Well Equipment and Transmission Pipeline:-
      - Supply and Construction of East Herodian Well No. 2 Pumping Station ( Considered
          as a miss procurement by the Bank )
      - Installation of 7.5 Km Main Transmission Water Pipeline

Component 1.2 Halhoul / Kharas / Nuba Transmission Pipe Line:-
      - Construction of Halhoul Kharas Nuba Main Transmission Water Pipeline ( 11.211
          Km, DIP )
      - Construction of 1000m3 on Ground Water Reservoir for Kharas Village.

Component 1.3. Distribution Network Rehabilitation Package:-
      - Supply and Installation of Internal Water Network for Kharas Village
      - Supply and Installation of Internal Water Network for Nuba Village
      - Supply and Installation of Internal Water Network for Beit Ula Village.

Component 2: Technical Assistance and Capacity Building.
Component 2.1 Project Management Unit Capacity Building

This item budget enabled the PMU to give training and advice to the service councils that were
responsible for operating of the water system through the project area.

Component 2.2 Technical Assistance for the PMU

This item financed hiring of consultants who supervised implementing the project according to
the specifications, preparing the designs and bidding documents for Dura and Yatta villages.




                      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
                         (including assumptions in the analysis)

N/A




                                               19
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

   (a) Task Team members
                                                                              Responsibility/
          Names                            Title                 Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Suhail Jme'an               Senior financial analyst            MNSIF Preparation TTL
Michael Hamaide             Operations analyst                  MNSIF
Manuel Schiffler            Senior economist                    MNSIF
Majed El-Bayya              Lead Procurement Specialist         MNAPR
Lizmara Kirchner            Water & Sanitation Specialist       MNSIF
Akram Abd El-Aziz Hussein   Sr Financial Management Spec.
                                                                MNAFM
El-Shorbagi
Maged Mahmoud Hamed         Sr Environmental Spec.              MNSIF
Velayutham Vijayaverl       Senior Procurement Specialist       MNAPR
Somin Mukherji              Senior Financial Analyst            MNSIF
Robotham, Kingsley          Consultant                          MNSIF
Alexander E. Bakalian       Lead Water Resource Specialist      MNSIF


Supervision/ICR
Sana Kh.H. Agha Al Nimer    Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.         MNSSD       Supervision TTL
Pier Francesco Mantovani    Ld. Water & Sanitation Spec.        MNSSD       ICR TTL
Khairy Al-Jamal             Senior Infrastructure Specialist    MNSSD
Claire Kfouri               Water & Sanitation Specialist       MNSSD
Fifi Z. Antar               Program Assistant                   MNCO4
Hyacinth D. Brown           Senior Finance Officer              LOAFC
Maya Khelladi               Economist                           MNSIF
A. Amir Al-Khafaji          Consultant                          MNSSD
Kirsten Burghardt Propst    Counsel                             LEGEM
Michael Hamaide             Operations officer.                 MNSIF
Dominique M. Dietrich       Language Program Assistant          MNSSD
Hayat Taleb Al-Harazi       Program Assistant                   MNSSD
Ruby Ray                    Finance Officer                    LOADM
Colin S. Scott              Lead Specialist                     MNSSD
Magalie Pradel              Program Assistant                   MNSSD
Suhail Jme'an               Senior Financial Analyst            MNSIF       Initial SPN TTL
Sati Achath                 ICR consultant                     Consultant   ICR specialist
Lizmara Kirchner            Water & Sanitation Specialist       MNSSD
Siaka Bakayoko              Country Manager                     MNCO4
Ahmed Merzouk               Senior Procurement Specialist       MNCO4
Alexander E. Bakalian       Lead Water Resource Specialist      MNSSD




                                               20
   (b) Staff Time and Cost


                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                                                    0.00
  FY03                                         20                        95.83
  FY04                                          3                         7.26
                             Total:            23                       103.09
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                     0.00
  FY04                                         11                        55.09
  FY05                                         10                        47.49
  FY06                                         10                        54.82
  FY07                                         13                        59.22
  FY08                                         17                        86.16
  FY09                                          6                        n/a
                             Total:            67                       302.78




                                          21
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

N/A




                                      22
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N/A




                                   23
      Annex 7. Borrower Evaluation Report




The Palestinian National Authority

 The Palestinian Water Authority



 EMERGENCY WATER PROJECT



Implementation Completion Report

      (Borrower's Contribution)


                  By

  The Project Management Unit

            March 2009




                       24
1. INTRODUCTION

  In parallel, PWA with donor support (USAID, AFD, FINNIDA and the WB) intended to
  accelerate the implementation of a program of priority capital investments that would increase
  available water in the southern area of the West Bank by drilling and equipping five deep wells as
  well as laying related primary transmission and distribution pipelines. This integrated program
  would convey additional water throughout the southern area where the water supply situation is
  dire.
  As a part of the comprehensive program, PWA proposed an Emergency Water Project to alleviate
  the deteriorated water supply services within the southern area of the West Bank by supporting
  priority investment packages focusing on enhancing water conveyance and distribution networks.
  The proposed Emergency Water Project would be financed on grant basis the critical components
  of the priority program described above where water are already available would be quickly
  conveyed and distributed to consumers.


  The key implementing agencies involved in the project are the Palestinian Water Authority
  (PWA) and the donor community namely; USAID, AFD, FINNIDA and the World Bank. The
  PWA has named the Project Management Unit as focal point to oversee the successful
  implementation of the program. The PMU was established on September of 1999 to follow up
  the World Bank funded program "Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement project"; but
  soon after it has become the technical unit for the PWA to oversee the implementation of it
  strategic programs and projects.


2. EMERGENCY WATER PROJECT BACKGROUND

  Following nearly of two and a half years of protracted and often violent conflict since October
  2000, which has caused severe damages to the West Bank and Gaza's physical and institutional
  infrastructure, including housing, public facilities, as well as vital water, wastewater and electrical
  networks. Municipal and village distribution networks suffered direct damage. Municipal
  maintenance crews were unable to carry out effective repairs and conduct routine maintenance.
  Consequently, reliable piped and safe water supplies were severely impacted. The closures and
  curfews crimped the ability to supply water by tankers on regular basis. Consequently, to the
  extent that tankers can deliver water the price of water rose sharply putting additional economic
  burden on households. As a result, large portions of the population continue to be without water
  for extended periods of time. Levels of household water usage have decreased and health risks
  increased because of failed wastewater and chlorination systems.
  In order to overcome these health and environmental impacts, an Emergency Water Project
  (EWP) was proposed to improve the water supply conditions in the southern area of the West
  Bank. The proposed project will increase the capacity of the existing systems, rehabilitate
  deteriorated networks, improve accessibility, quality and quantity of water.
  Recognizing the increased threat to public health brought about by increased exposure to water-
  and sanitation-borne disease and increased economic burden on households, the Palestinian Water
  Authority (PWA) with support from the donor and NGO community established the Emergency
  Water Operations Center (EWOC) in April 2002. The purpose of the EWOC was to assist in
  responding to the humanitarian crisis described above through restoration of basic water and
  sanitation services in the West Bank. In the first six months of operation EWOC disbursed about



                                                    25
$1.15 million for emergency repair work. An additional US$ 7.0 million are spent for continued
emergency work, restocking of supplies and to help improve preparedness.



2.1 EWP Objectives

The main development objectives of the proposed project are:
        Improve the sufficiency of water and wastewater services in the Southern Area of the
        West Bank (Hebron and Bethlehem Governorates).
        Improve the efficiency of water and wastewater services supply to customers in terms of
        quality and quantity.
        Improve the management of water services by building on existing authorities; the Water
        Supply and Sewerage Authority (WSSA) and the municipal and village water
        departments within Bethlehem and Hebron Governorates.
        Strengthening regulatory and institutional capacity in the Palestinian Water Authority
        (PWA).


2.2 The EWP Main Components

        The Emergency Water Project (EWP) for the southern area of the West Bank consisted of
        the following components:

2.2.1   Water Transmission Line ( Halhul - Kharas - Nuba )
    The water transmission main line has been designed to connect the existing Halhul regional water reservoir, with
    the capacity of 25,000 cubic meter, to Kharas town and then move on to connect Nuba town and the Western area
    of Hebron Governorate. The total length of the pipe is 11.21 km and its diameter varies between 6" and 16". It
    should be noted that the Halhul reservoir is being supplied by a group of wells that were drilled and equipped
    through other programs, mainly from the USAID. However, one of those wells, East Herodian 2 well, was drilled
    through the European Investment Bank, and was planned to be equipped as another component of this exact
    program; EWP.
    The bidding process for the main transmission line was carried out as an NCB and was advertised on September
    22, 2004. The Arab Brothers was declared the successful bidder among the eight firms that submitted their
    proposals with a contract value equivalent to 664,299 USD; and the work commenced on 17 February 2005. The
    contractor had nine calendar months to complete the work.
     The final contract value amounted to $744,498.03 which exceeded the original contract value by 12.07%.
    Justifications for the increase in the contract amount were furnished to the World Bank and the records were
    updated accordingly.


2.2.2   Water Transmission Line (East Herodian 2 )

    The water transmission mainline was designed to connect the East Herodian Production Well (No. 2), to an
    existing main transmission pipeline connecting the two regional reservoirs at Dheishe and Halhul in Bethlehem
    and Hebron Governorates respectively. The total length of the transmission line 7.5 km with a 16" in diameter.
    The bidding process was carried out as NCB and was advertised on 19 August 2004. Midmac Company was the
    successful bidder and signed the contract with a value of 345,747 USD on 5 December 2004 with 6 months for
    completion.
    The final contract value was $467,273.55 which exceeded the original contract value by 35.15%. Justifications for
    the increase in the contract amount have been provided and sent to the World Bank. The main increase in the
    contract value was due to the intervention of the Israeli Ministry of Public Works who had stopped the works and


                                                         26
    enforced Israeli specifications on the contractor after forcing him to change the routing of the pipeline. The route
    was shifted from one side of the street to the other, and such required the contractor to redo the shop drawings
    taking into consideration the different nature of the terrain, and the Israeli specifications. Accordingly, the
    contractor was forced to make encasement on certain segments of the pipeline that passed next to the Israeli
    settlement's entrance. In addition, the reinstatement of the original conditions was done according to the Israeli
    specifications that were different than the ones in the document.


2.2.3     Procurement of DIP for EH2 and H-K-N
        The PWA and the World Bank have agreed to divide the above mentioned two projects and to tenders in two
        separate procurements. The supply of the Ductile Iron pipes and the fittings as one part, and the installation as
        another. Such was planned to accelerate the implementation of the projects, which means that the pipes would
        be shipped at a time when the contractors would be making their shop drawings. The contractor was required
        to procure the needed pipes and materials, store them at two locations and manage the sites for the duration of
        the installation phase.
        Two sites were given to the contractor; the first at Teqo, close to the EH2 transmission line, and the other was
        provided by the community of Nuba which was close to the H-K-N transmission line.
        The contract was signed with the French company (IPS) on 5 August 2004 for a contractual value of 
        2,581,105. After farther auditing to the BOQ, it was corrected to the amount of  2,586,057.
        The two storage sites were handed over to the PWA by mid of January 2006; and Nuba storage yard was turned
        over to the community which is using it as a playground for the community's school.
        It was found that this implemented method had saved the project finances and time. This was mainly due to the
        fact that the works on the three projects went in parallel. In other words, the pipes were on their way to the
        country at the time when the transmission line contractors were preparing their shop drawings.
         The final contract value amounted to  2,770,306 which exceeded the original contract value of  2,586,057 by
        7.0 %.


2.2.4     Equipping the East Herodian Production Well (No. 2)
        The project was awarded to El Concorde for a total contract value of 3,090,509.74 USD excluding VAT, and
        the works included the supply and construction of the submersible pump, booster pumps, electrical panels, the
        balance reservoir and other civil works. The contract was signed on 26 December 2005, and the project was
        scheduled to be completed after 11 months from the day when the notice to be proceed was awarded on 13
        February 2006. Once the well is in operation, it is expected to yield an additional quantity of water (200 cm/hr)
        and to be pumped into the system feeding Bethlehem and Hebron area.
        It should be noted that this project was tendered for the second time. The first time, three firms submitted their
        offers and were found non of them meet the specifications and conditions of the tender document.
        The progress was slow and was not to the satisfaction of the Construction Management team. The contractor
        was required to increase the level of commitment and works toward completion of the project as soon as
        possible. At the end of December 2007 the PMU informed the Bank's TTL with its non satisfaction with the
        performance and suggested the termination of the contract or to allow the PMU to procure the submersible
        pump directly from the supplier. The Bank responded negatively to both suggestions and insisted to proceed
        with the Contractor and conclude the works prior to the deadline of the TF; June 30th 2007.
        It should be noted that no additional payments have been made to the contractor after June 2007, when the
        PMU noted the discrepancy in the technical submittals of the submersible pumps. In the following month, the
        PMU rejected the pumps due to the fact that the serial numbers on the pumps refer to an eight-stage pumps and
        not the supplied ones with 14-stage pump.
        The Bank and the PMU have approved to send the pump to be tested in the workshop of the manufacturer in
        Scotland, and has requested that the Third Party to witness the testing. However, and due to the lack of the
        proper documentation, the PWA rejected the pumps and requested the Contractor to replace them with new
        ones. The contractor on March 4th 2008 sent its acceptance to PWA instructions and noted its compliance with
        the instructions. However, and due to the fact that the contractor refused to extend its performance bond, the
        PWA sent a letter terminating the contract; and the Bank declared mis-procurement.




                                                           27
2.2.5       Rehabilitation of water networks
          Under the EWP, the full rehabilitation of Kharas and Nuba networks would be carried out. The designs were
          prepared by the US consultant, CDM to be funded by the USAID. However, and due to limitations in USAID
          funding; and the urgency to rehabilitate the systems and improve the quality of life for the Palestinian
          population, the two projects are funded by the World Bank under the Emergency Water Project.


2.2.5.1     Kharas network
                 The bids were opened on 28 August 2005, and the contract was signed with the successful bidder, Arab
                 Brothers, on 12 December 2005 for a total value of 1,168,753.37 USD (Including VAT). The notice to
                 proceed was issued on 4 February 2006, and the contractor had 8 months to complete the works. The
                 contractor has laid 33.596 Km of the internal distribution pipes in addition to replacement and
                 installation of 600 household meters. It should be noted that the contractor has worked closely with the
                 municipality to ensure the speedy installation of the household connections under the supervision of the
                 PMU/CM team.
                 The contractor completed the contract works and has received an amount of 1,152,727.12 USD.


2.2.5.2     Nuba network
                 The bids were opened on 4 October 2005 and the contract was signed with the successful bidder, Al-
                 Khaisi Contracting Company, on the 5th of November 2006 for a total amount of USD 938,275.00
                 (Excluding VAT). The notice to proceed was issued on the 19 November 2006 and the contractor had 6
                 months to complete the works.
                 The works consisted of the rehabilitation of 31.2 km of HDPE and house connections, and the
                 replacement and installation of 700 household meters.
                 The contractor has completed the contract works and has received an amount of USD 873,186.63
                 (Excluding VAT). This amount is technically & financially approved.


2.2.6       Kharas reservoir
            An estimated budget of 0.36 million USD was allocated to the construction of a 1000 cm reservoir to be an
            integral part of the main system serving the western area of Hebron Governorate. The bid opening took place
            on 10 August 2005, the successful bidder was the Arab brother who signed the contract on 24 October 2005
            for a contract value equivalent to 195,000 USD excluding VAT.
            The notice to proceed was issued on 16 November 2005, and the contract duration was for 6 months.
            This project was completed on schedule. The final aggregate amount of this contract was $ 268,193.87 where
            the increase in the contract amount was $ 41,993.87 which is an 18.56% in the contract amount.
            Justifications for this increase were furnished to the World Bank in order that they adjust their records
            accordingly.


During the World Bank's mission last November 2006, it was agreed to reallocate the finances of
the project to fund the rehabilitation of Beit Ula network and to connect the EH2 well with
permanent power. Below is the description of the two projects with the update on their status.

     1.     Beit Ula
     An estimated budget of 0.6 Million USD was allocated for the supply and installation of a water network for Beit
     Ula community in Hebron governorate to the south of Nuba community. The tender process took place as
     scheduled according the World Bank guidelines and the contract was awarded to Afaq Co. as the successful bidder,
     the contract was signed on the 13 March 2007 with a total contract value of 488,910 USD. The works have not
     been completed.




                                                            28
2.   Electricity Connection to East Herodian Well # 2
     The implementation method for this contract is a sole source shopping. The sole provider of electricity is the
     Jerusalem District Electricity Company (JDECO). This project is very critical and necessary where it will be
     feeding electricity to the East Herodian 2 Well, which provides 1.5 mcm of water per year to a system which
     supplies water to 800,000 inhabitants in the governorates of Bethlehem and Hebron. This project also aims at
     decreasing the operational costs of the well facility in addition to guaranteeing continuous operation and
     sustainability of the well.


     JDECO requested 1,787,684 NIS for the implementation of the required works, and has sent the work plans
     for the Israeli civil administration. The environment officer requested not to install the over-head electricity
     line and instead burry the lines. However, this project is being financed by the Ministry of Finance due to the
     fact that the Bank did not extend the trust Fund.


3.   Designs for the Dura and Yatta villages

     Even though this component was designed to be funded by the Bank, but due to the fact that the Bank did not
     provide the financial support for the required engineers; the PWA was able to hire the design engineers
     through the funding of the Finnish government. The Finnish government funded part of the operating
     expenses of the Project management Unit, and have funded the expenses of two experts; the first was an
     assistance to the Director of the PMU, and the second was the construction manager for the East Herodian
     well 2 project.
     The design were finished and submitted to the Bank seeking funding. The two packages would serve more
     than 35 communities that have no distribution networks, and have to depend on water tankers. Currently, the
     PWA is negotiating with other donors to fund those packages.



Lessons learned


     1. The formation of the PMU needs to be structured with greater attention, based on
        the assigned tasks. During the course of its function, the PMU has proven to be
        the entity that can assume the same responsibilities as those of the Engineering
        firm, and with additional technical support, the works would be carried out in a
        more professional manner. The original scope of work mandated that the PMU
        was to coordinate with the communities and the donor community regarding the
        implementation of the different projects and the improvement of the services; and
        act to liaison between the different parties. However, this role was significantly
        changed after the Intifada and the Israeli incursions The PMU, after expanding its
        local staff, started having additional tasks including the procurement services,
        supervising the operation and maintenance of the utilities, providing technical
        assistance to the different communities, make needs assessment, design, tender,
        supervise the implementation and continue its role in the donor coordination in
        the southern area of the West Bank.
     2. The institutional arrangement should be handled from the early stages of the
        program. It was found that the once the communities are well informed about
        the project, they would be facilitating the works and services to be carried out in
        their locality.
     3. Training should be looked upon seriously and should carry more weight in the
        process. It suffice to say that some training was carried out to the local
        contractors, engineers and Villages Councils on the use of the Ductile Iron pipes
        and the high density polyethylene


                                                      29
4. The World Bank needs to revise its policies that have proven to be misleading in
   the management of the program.
        a. The main criteria for the Bank to judge the performance of the program
           should not depend on the speed of spending the funds. The efficient
           allocation of the funds should be considered, especially when other
           donors are co-financing some of the projects in the same area. It should
           be noted that the TTL were found to be under great pressure to expedite
           the spending of the funds paying less attention to the quality of the works
           and services.
        b. The Bank should provide more technical assistance to similar projects. It
           was the feeling the policy that was implemented by the Bank was "Sink
           or Swim"; and the Bank stood on the shore watching the sinking of the
           project. The main issue was the Equipping of East Herodian Well 2.
           The Construction management consultant made several proposals to
           solve the contractual issue with the Contractor. However, the Bank was
           keen on rejecting all proposals and kept the pressure to conclude the
           project prior to the deadline. The work should be one of partnership, but
           it felt that the Bank was instructing the PMU and directing its action; and
           then judge them for going into that direction
5. Emergency programs and projects should be dealt with in a more delicate manner.
   The Emergency projects that are implemented under a very hostile political
   environment should be followed up more closely. We do not believe that
   Emergency programs could be run by a remote control from the Banks HQ in
   Washington, and the Task leaders should be based in the country mission offices.
   Such would give the TTL a more realistic sense of the events and may help
   receive the appropriate appreciation
6. The relationship between the Bank TTL and the Borrowers technical team should
   be one of mutual respect. Both side should deal with each others on an equal
   footage not one of a master and serf. for any project to succeed, both parties
   should be working together to make things happen.




                                       30
      Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


N/A




                                     31
                         Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents



        Project Implementation Plan

        Memorandum and Recommendation of the President for The West Bank and Gaza
        Emergency Water Project, dated July 2, 2003 (Report No.:P7597 GZ)

        Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

        Project Progress Reports.

        Borrower's Evaluation Report dated March 2009


*including electronic files




                                             32
MAP




33
