Dw=mm of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIL USE ONLY
Report No. 6433
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 1213-MA)
October 6, 1986
Urban      Water Division
East       and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfenmance
of their offcia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



THE VIORLD BANKFOR OMFCAL4  USE ONLY
THE W/ORLD SANK                W         m u    K
Washrngton, D C 20433
USA.
OKe.. of Dvvctcv.Cerwal
October 6, 1986
WMSMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Malaysia - Kuala Lumpur
Sewerage Project (Loan 1213-MA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Complption Report on Malaysia - Kuala Lumpur Sewerage Project (Loan 1213-MA)"
prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Further evaluation of
this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not bein made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclose without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAiSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 1213-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION TERM
Table of Contents
Page No.
BREASCE AT........ ......... ..........,..........................             ii
BASIC DT ....,i
HIGHLIGHTS ....................                                                 iv
I. PROJECT DESIGN AND PREPARATION......................                     1
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES, DECRIPTION AND IMPLLMENTATION ............           3
III. OPERATING PERFORMANCE ..........                                         7
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE DEVELOPMENT..............                      9
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS ..............                     ,                  11
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE...,o o                           ............. ........  13
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION......                                             13
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED... o ...........................         14
ANNEXES
1.  Compliance with Loan Conditions                                          16
2.  Organization Structure of the Sewerage Department.........".             18
3.  Financial Statements of the Sewerage Department  ..........              19
APPENDICES
A.  Letter froni the office of Auditor General of Malaysia .......           22
B. Letter from the Director of Sewerage and Drainage Department,
Dewar,i  andaralj, !Zuala Lumpur                                        23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 1213-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This report presents the results of a review of the Kuala Lumpur
Sewerage Project, for which a loan of US$21.5 million was made on March 11,
1976, to the Government of Malaysia (COM) for on-lending to Kuala Lumpur City
(KLC). US$1.0 million from tlZ loan amount was cancelled in August 1983, and
the balance was fully disbursed by March 8, 1985, some three years later than
originally scheduled. The Sewerage and Drainage Department (SD) of KLC, which
was created in 1975 as a condition of Bank involvement in the project, was the
implementing agency.
The report was prepared by the Urban and Water Supply Division of
the East Asia and Pacific Region (AEPUW). It is based on a review of loan and
project documents and oth2r information in Bank files and discussions in the
field with SD officers.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reportiag, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED), but the project was not audited by OED staff.
Following standard procedures, OED sent copies of the draft project
completion report to the Government/Borrower and Executing Agency for comments.
Comments were received and they have been taken into account in finalizing
this report and are also reproduced as Appendices A and B to the report



- ii -
!1RLRYSIR
KU.qLA LVUP  SEULRE PRWUECT 'Lr. Q2N-R)
PReoJiCT COIaILEtIQN #EPOR!
OASIC PJA SPwET
["P'jORTA
Appruisal         Actual or
Item                                EsCtlat           Current E34.
Total Project Cost (USS nillion)                 60Q5              57.3
Underrun X                                                        5.0 1/
Lown (US$ tillion)                               21.5              21.5
Disbursed                                      21.5              20.S
Cancelled                                                         1.0
Date of Physical Co&pletion                  Dec. 1980         Dec. 1984
Proportion Cnpleted by
Apwraisal Target Date                           -               n.a.
Tine Overrun I                                                      8e
Econtc/Financial Rate of Return                 n.a.              n.a.
finncial Performnce                          satisfactory      better
Institutional Perfornance                    satisfactory      satisfactory
CULAtIUE OISURSOENTS
(US$ nilt.ij'!
Jue 38               77       78      79       88       81       82       83       81       85
(a) Appraisal est.   0.6      3.3      9.5     16.5     21.5     21.5     21.5     20.5    20.5
(b) Actual          0.1       0.S      2.1      5.9     10.9     14.0     17.3    18.6    20.5
(c) - b/a(X)         16       15       25       36       51       65       88      91 2    lOQ 2/
OTHER PROJECT DRAR
RppralsPi
Iten                                         Estin3te                            Actual
first nention in Frles                                                            1974
Negotiations                                                                     Dlec. 1975
Board  pprwoual                                                                  Feb. 21,1976
Loan Agreenent                                                                   llarch 1!, 1976
Effectiueness                                June 11, 1976                       August 25, 1976
Closing                                      Dec. 31, 1981                       June 3D, 1981
Sorroer           Goverment of lalaysia
Executing Rgency  Sewerage Departnent of Kuala LUnpur City
follog-on Project None
1/ Underrun of 91 ulen coWuted in In  (see para. 2.10).
2/ Based on the eventual loan wnount of 28.5 nillion.



- iii -
aSIC ORT11 SEET (COMT.)
flission Data '
Date    Mo. of  No. of  Person   Dte of
mi.Sx            lNt.h/yr. weeks  persons Ueeks   Report
Identification    3/72       1.1       2       2.2  4/14/72
Preparation      11173       1.1       3       3.3  12/20/73
P"eawra sal      6/71        1.?       t        .6  8/12/4
8ppraisal        3W5          3        2       6.0  2/2/76
Post-apprai5     lf          2       1.3      2,6  12/9V S
Subtotal                                    18.7
Sc Serv"sion I    3J76       9.4       2       0.8  5/6/76
Supervision II   12/76       0.7       3       2.1  ;7/77
$upervision III   8/77       0.7       1       0.7  12.117?
Superusio  TU   3/78         0.7       2       1.4  4127/78
'.&er"zs.on U    9/79        0.9       2          1.8   1!3R78
cupervision Ul    3/?9       0.9       1       0.9   4/26/79
Supervision U!!  11/79       1.7       2       3.t  2113/80
"upervmsion U!!!  9/88       0.9       1       0.9  12/10/80
Supervision IX   6/81        9.9       1       0:9  ?/2/81
Supervision X    11.81       1.1       2       2.8   12/2941
Su9ervisloe XI   6/83        0.6       2       1.2   7/13/8
Sbtota.l                                      16.8
EXCH1E RITES
N-me of Currencq                      Rirngit (11$)
flppraisa1 Year Rverage 1975        US$!     .5
T..termi.ng Years Average 1976-84    Ust1 = l2. 40
Cwletion Yea 19Qt                   US$1  112.45
a/ The nissions also carried out supervision of another project.



- iv -
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 1213-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlights
i.        The loan was the first operation of the Bank Group in the sewerage/
sanitation subsector of Malaysia. The main objectives were to improve the
sanitary conditions in Kuala Lumpur (by extending the central sewerage system
and providing additional connections to the households), to build up the
institution for sewerage operations, and to ensure its financial viability.
ii.       Mainly because of problems in the acquisition of land and in the
relocation of people, project implementation took much longer than expected;
this, in turn, adversely affected the progress on sewerage connections. In
the event, the number of additional connections provided under the project was
much lower than that forecast, which itself was based on inaccurate data.
Despite the long time taken to implement the project, and the slight increase
in its scope, the final cost was marginally lower than forecast.
iii.      The institutional and financial objectives were fully achieved.  A
separate self-accounting sewerage department (SD) was created and has been
functioning reasonably well, and the commercial accounting system was esta-
blished. Even though SD's operating revenues, particularly from sewerage sur-
charge, were well below forecast, still SD's financial performance during the
project period 1976-84 was better than that required under the loan covenant
and forecast at appraisal.
iv.       Due to lack of interest on the part of the Governments of Malaysia
and of Selangor State, some fringe objectives (para. 8.04) were not achieved;
these were, however, not directly related to the project nor were the actions
to achieve them within the domain of SD.
v.        The following additional points may also be of interest;
(a)  staff training on plant operation and maintance was found useful;
and
(b)  commitment from Kuala Lumpur City Council towards SD's institutional
and financial objectives was vital to their achievement.



MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 1213-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. PROJECT DESIGN AND PREPARATION
1.01      In 1975, the Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur covered an area of
94 mi2 and had a population of about 780,000 growing at a rate of 3.7% p.a.
The population of the country as a whole was growing at 2.7% p.a. The city's
higher-than-average growth rate was primarily attributable to rapid industrial
development which significantly increased the city's water supply and sewerage
needs.
1.02      Water supply to Kuala Lumpur is provided by the Water Division of
Selangor State, the state encircling the city. The water system serves about
1,000,000 persons in the city and adjacent state areas through 100,000 connec-
tions, all of which are metered, Bank loans 561-MA (1968) and 908-MA (1973)
helped finance the expansion of the system. According to OED's Project Per-
formance Audit Reports (Nos. 1244 and 4244), the projects achieved their
physical objectives of improving service to existing customers and extending
it to new areas, but the Water Department of Selangor State had problems in
billing customers and, because of staff shortages, had only partial success
with institutional objectives (e.g., a new water department was created, but
the commercial accounting system introduced with the help of consultants fell
into disuse). However, these problems apparently have been resolved since
(see also Appendix B, para. 6).
1.03      The sewerage system serving Kuala Lumpur was owned by the City of
Kuala Lumpur and operated by the City's Engineering Department. The system
was constructed in 1953 and by 1975 served an estimated 200,000 persons or
about 25% of the local population. It served the central city and two smaller
outlying areas. Facilities consisted of about 80 mi of sewers, a raw sewage
lift station, 3 treatment plants and gravity outfalls to the Klang River
system. The city also provided service to about 5,000 persons in low-income
adjacent areas through small communal facilities. The remaining population
relied on septic tank, privies and night soil systems. The City's Engineering
Department operated and maintained the system and was competent in carrying
out minor improvements. But due to inadequate staffing, it had to rely on
engineering consultants to plan, design and supervise the construction of
major projects. Because of limited revenues and inadequate capital funding,
the City had not expanded its sewerage system to match the rate of u.ban
development.
1.04      In general, government investment in sewerage facilities and the
subsector were relatively inadequate nationwide. According to the 1970
Census, less than 21% of the country's population were provided with flush
systems. Under the Revised Second Malaysia Plan (1971-75) M$334 million went
to water supply projects, while only M$23 million was allocated to sewerage.
As a result of the investment imbalance, waste water flows were increasing due



-2-
to the increase in piped water supply, but facilities for collection,
treatment and disposal had not kept pace. Out of concern for increasing
pollution and the inability of the existing system to handle the increasing
volume and strength of liquid wast¢s, the Government of Malaysia (COM)
obtained UK financing for the preparation of a Sewerage Master Plan for Kuala
Lumpur. The plan, which was prepared in 1973-75 by consultants, identified a
staged program of sewerage development through the year 2005 to meet the needs
of the city and substantial adjacent portions of Selangor State.
1.05      In 1974, the Government requested Bank assistance in financing the
first stage (1976-80) of the 30-year Master Plan. The project was prepared by
consultants, Government and the City of Kuala Lumpur and was estimated to cost
about US$60.5 million equivalent. It was preappraised by the Bank in 1974 and
appraised in March 1975. The project loan was negotiated in December 1975.
The major agreements reached at negotiations were as follows:
(a) for the purposes of meeting the expanding needs of the subsector and
of carrying out the proposed project efficiently, a separate Sewer-
age Department would be established prior to presentation of the
project to the Board and thereafter staffed with qualified persons
adequate to meet the needs of the project and system operations;
(b) government land for facilities to be constructed under the project
would be provided at nominal cost and the Government would en1sure
the prompt acquisition of other land required for the project;
(c) to permit more effective control of water resources in the Klang
Valley, i.e., the greater Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area, an intra-
governmental committee would be established for the coordination of
sewerage construction programs and pollution abatement measures
carried out by Kuala Lumpur City and Selangor State, and a sewerage
agency for Selangor State would be established;
(d) a ten-year urban development plan would be prepared for the Federal
Territory and surrounding areas of Selangor State; and
(e) sewerage charges would be improved at a level to assure the Sewerage
Department's financial viability; these would be collected by the
Selangor State Wa1er Department.
1.06      The Bank loan (1213-MA) for US$21.; million was made to GOM for on-
lending to Kuala Lumpur City (KLC) on the same terms as those of the Bank
loan. The Sewerage and Drainage Department (SD) was the Executing Agency for
the project. The loan was approved by the Bank's Board on February 24, 1976,
the Loan Agreement was signed on March 11, 1976, and the loan became effective
on August 25, 1976. The project was expected to be completed by December 31,
1980, and loan closing was scheduled one year later.
*0



-3-
II. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project Objectives and Description
2.01      The project was aimed at improving standards of health and sanita-
tion in some of the minre densely populated areas of Kuala Lumpur by extending
and improving the city's sewage collection and treatment facilities. As a
result of project works, an additional 44,000 households (200,000 people) were
expected to be connected to the system, and the percentage of the total popu-
lation of the Federal Territory receiving sewerage service would increase from
251 in 1976 to about 45% in 1981. The project was also intended to help the
development of an effective and financially viable sewerage entity for the
city through the creation of a separate sewerage department and the introduc-
tion of a commercial accounting system.
2.02      The project comprised the following components:
(a)  laying some 68 miles of lateral and trunk sewer lines;
(b) construction of three new sewage treatment plants at Bunus, Lower
Kerayong and Puchong (the first two consisting of aerated oxydation
ponds), extension to an existing plant at Pantai, and construction
of a pilot plant at Pantai to determine optimum loading of the
ponds;
(c) construction of four pumping stations;
(d) purchase of maintenance plant and equipment;
(e) provision of engineering and management consultant services to
assist in implementing project civil works, preparing tender docu-
ments, providing on-the-job training for staff, and introducing a
commercial acccunting system; and
(f)  the preparation of a sewerage and pollution control prograt as well
as a spatial development plan for the Kuala Lumpur metropolitan
area.
The project was estimated to cost M$151 million (US$,0.5 million equivalent).
2.03      At appraisal it was expected that some 600 families would have to be
resettled from lands required for construction of works under the project.
The affected area totalled some 262 acres. Provision was made under the
Second Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project (Loan 1214-MA) to provide finan-
cial and technical assistance to develop sites and services, and possibly some
housing, for displaced families.
Revision6 to Project Scope
2.04      The project was generally implemented as envisioned with the
following relatively minor exceptions: (a) construction of lateral and trunk



-4-
sewer lines was increased from 68 mi to about 84 mi; (b) an additional pumping
station (a force main) was constructed due to relocation of the treatment
plant at Puchong; and (c) aspects of the project pertaining to long-term plan-
ning and pollution control in the greater Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area and
requiring actions by Selangor State were not pursued by the Bank after 1977
due to lack of interest on the part of Selangor State officials. This was not
a major aspect of the project and was not regarded as a major problem.
Project Implementation
2.05      Implementation of project components took longer than projected and
the project as a whole was completed in December 1984, some four years later
than estimated at appraisal. Major causes of delay were difficulties in
acquiring land for treatment works (para. 2.07) and time-consuming procedures
(i.e., sequential reviews) for the selection and appointment of consultants.
The Treasury contributed to the latter problem. Although it was represented
on key committees which reviewed the selection of consultants and award of
contracts, it nevertheless carried out a subsequent, separate review.
2.06      The pro,ect was initially delayed by the late appointment of consul-
tants, who started work in Auguat 1976, six months later than planr:ed, due to
protracted contract negotiations. Thereafter contracts and bidding documents
were prepared expeditiously. Construction of civil works was carried out
under three major contracts, two for the sewer lines and one for the treatment
plants. Bids for the sewer construction were invited in mid-1977, but con-
struction did not begin until July 1978 rather than March 1977 as scheduled at
appraisal. Although engineering had progressed faster than planned, bids for
the two sewer contracts were opened on schedule at end-September 1977 and end-
October 1977, and the contract awards were approved by the Kuala Lumpur Tender
Board by early 1978, final approval of the contract awards by the Minister of
Finance (who must approve all contracts worth over M$6 million) was delayed.
This was due to the Minister's absence from the Treasury for an extended
period while campaigning. Bid validity therefore a.ad to be extended to end-
March 1978, when approval was finally received, largely as a result of Bank
staff intervention. Following the start of construction, works were sporadi-
cally delayed by difficult soil conditions and, for three months, by a lagging
supply of clay pipe (which, contrary to expectations, was not available local-
ly and had to be imported). A labor shortage later delayed works by seven
months. Construction of the 84 miles of sewer was completed in early 1982,
some two years later than expected.
2.07      Construction of the treatment works did not begin until 1980, more
than two years later than expected, and the progress of construction was
slow. Most of the delays were due to problems experienced in acquiring land
for the construction sites and resettling the 900 families (up from 600 fami-
lies at appraisal) who occupied the sites. Land for all project sites was
expected to be acquired by late 1977, but the certificates required to release
the land to KLC were not obtained until December 1979 (Marth 1980 for the
Pantai site). Even after the land was legally annexed, hower'er, the refusal
of several landowners to move delayed construction on one of the sites until
1982.



- 5 -
2.08      The original plan to resettle persons displaced by the Sewerage
Project using sites and services developed under the Second Kuala Lumpur Urban
Transport Project failed to materialize. According to tne PCR Zor that proj-
ect, the sites and services component was allowed to lapse due to basic policy
differences with Government. Another site satisfactory to those concerned,
therefore, had to be found, but this was difficult because (a) the process of
land acquisition in KL is fragmented among various departments and sections of
the Federal Government (FG); (b) problems of a political nature between FG and
the Selangor State government surfaced after the appraisal and were manifested
by the latter's reluctance to provide land for the project; (c) GOM was reluc-
tant to dispossess some of its citizens of their land; and (d) resettlemlt
was also required for some 7,000 households displaced or to be displaced-/ by
various other schemes under construction at the time (e.g., housing, educa-
tion, roads, etc.), and another 13,000 households had already applied for low-
cost hoising. Givern the magnitude of the housing task, delays in the reloca-
tion of persons displaced under the project were to some extent unavoidable.
Construction of the Puchong works was also delayed by the need to relocate the
site two miles downstream to allow mining operations to proceed on the origi-
nal site. In addition, completion of the treatment ponds and pumping facili-
ties was delayed by some months by the national power entity's delay in con-
structing substations and a shortage of circuit breakers. In hindsight, it
seems clear that neither Government nor the Bank appreciated the potential
problems involved in annexing land for project works, and the time. allocated
for this purpose in the implementation schedule was unrealistically short.
Project Cost
2.09      Despite project delays and its increased scope, the final cost was
only about M$138 million (US$57.3 million), or about 9% lower than the appraisal
estimate. Sewers and treatment plant costs increased by about M$14 million
and M$20 million, respectively, but this was more than offset by the price
contingency of M$39 million (see table below).
1/ The displaced persons were eventually relocated.



- 6 -
Table 1: ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS
(M$ million)
Estimate               Actual or current estimate
Sewers                           42.84                           56.25
Pump station                      8.73                            8.36/a
Treatment plant                  23.17                           42.59Ta
General plant                     0.44                            1.53
Land                             22.40                           16.29
Other                               -                             2.50
Consulting
Design                          2.63                            3.22
Supervision                     3.60                            6.85
Subtotal                   103.81                          137.58
Contingencies
Physical                        8.14
Price                          39.31
Total Cost                 151.26                          137.58
/a   Does not include claims from the contractors--because of delays in giving
possession of site, etc.--amounting to about M$1.0 million and M$1.29
million, respectively.
Loan Disbursement
2.10      Because of project implementation problems, actual disbursements
lagged four years behind the appraisal estimate.  By June 30, 1981, te- origi-
nal closing date, only half of the loan amount had been disbursed. Anticipat-
ing the reduction in the project costs, at KLCts request, M$1.0 milli-n from
the loan amount was cancelled in August 1983.  The Basic Data Sheet =rovides a
comparison of actual and estimated disbursements.
Procurement
2.11      Bank procurement guidelines were observed in all contracts except
one, where COM intervened to award the contract to the second lowest evaluated
bidder. This contract was therefore excluded from Bank financing; the
contractor carried out the works satisfactorily (Appendix B, para. 4).
Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Supplier
2.12      Engineering and management consultancy firms from overseas formed
joint ventures with domestic counterparts. Their performance was satisfactory



- 7 -
except in the latter part of the project period when SD was not satisfied with
the engineering consultants' performance with regard to their inspection, testing
and installation of pumps at Pantai main and pilot plants, and also to the
delays in the settlement of the currently outstanding claims from the contractors
(Appendix B, para. 7). One contractor was a joint venture between a foreign
and a domestic entities; their performance was satisfactory. The performance
of suppliers, except the supplier of pumps for Pantai (and this is attributed
partly to faulty specifications, para. 3.01) was also satisfactory.
Compliance with Covenants
2.13      Annex I summarizes compliance with Loan Agreement covenanti under
the project. While most covenants were fulfilled, if somewhat late, the long
delays in alienating land required for the project (Section 3.02 of :he Loan
Agreement) significantly delayed project works. And, as discussed ill
para. 2.04, no progress was made in implementing project covenants roquiring
cooperation between the Federal Territory aad Selangor State with respect to
pollution control and long-term urban planning.
Reporting
2.14      Technical reports were of good standard and were submitted in a
timely manner. The annual accounts, while of accsptable standards, were
received after two to three years' delay in the earlier project years. This
seems to have been due to lengthy absences caused by the illness of two suc-
cessive SD chief accountants. The situation improved progressively and draft
unaudited accounts for FY1984 and audited accounts for 1982 were available by
early 1986. The Office of the Auditor-General has informed that 1983 accounts
have already been audited and 1984 accounts are presently under audit
(Appendix A, para. 2).
HII. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
Physical Works
3.01      Facilities provided under the project are operating satisfactorily
except at Pantai, where the new pumps caused operational problems including
damage to impellers. The new pumps had to be rer3oved and service was main-
tained with the existing, older pumps. According to SD officials, the speci-
fications drawn up by the consultants for the pumps' design were not suited to
the prevailing needs and conditions at Pantai. The matter has been under dis-
cussion between the supplier and SD. More recently SD officials have informed
Bank staff that the supplier has offered to replace the pumps free of
charge. (See also Appendix B, para. 7.)



-8-
3.02      The pilot plant at Pantai, which also suffered from pump failure, is
only now functioning sporadically by using an older pump. Events may also
have obviated the envisaged need for the pilot plant to provide informat:on on
the optimum loading of aerated oxidation ponds. Additional oxidation ponds
may no longer be economically justified in KL in view of the recent large
increase in land values there which make large ponds very expensive compared
to activated sludge treatment or bio-filter plants.
Sewerage Connections
3.03      Under the Street Drainage and Building Act of 1974, a property owner
is required to connect to the public sewer system when the sewer line passes
within 100 yds of the premises. This Act is enforced by KLC. The current
cost of connecting a household to the system is M$600-M$1,000; and when the
connection is carried out by the SD, the owner has the option to pay for the
connection in 24 monthly installments at 6% interest rate. SD has todate
five-term contractors to carry out sewer connections to premises that are to
be connected to the Kuala Lumpur Sewerage Phase I. Todate, M$12.5 million
value of Tworks have been issued to the contractors of which M$10 million value
of works have been completed. Approximately 70% of the existing premises
under the Phase I have been connected to the sewer. (Appendix B, para 6).
3.04      The progress of connecting households/premises to the central sewer-
age system has not met appraisal expectations. Thus far, the project has con-
tributed to only about 16,000 additional connections, in contrast to the
44,000 forecast. The original projections were based on data provided in the
Sewerage Master Plan, which in 1978 was found to have major errors in its
estimates of existing connections. Actual connections in 1978 totalled
18,000, much lower than the appraisal projection (based on Master Plan data)
of 41,000 connections for 1977. Similarly, the connection targets under the
project were significantly miscalculated. However, even with the much lower
connection rate achieved, the project was worthwhile and would have been
implemented on the basis of the lower figure.  Because the capacity of treat-
ment plants was designed on the basis of sewerage flows from the projected
additional number of connections, and the eventual number of those connections
was much lower, the system has excess capacity.  A part of this capacity is
being absorbed by SD's ongoing annual construction program, while the rest is
expected to be absorbed by the proposed second stage sewerage project.
Sewerage Surcharge and Collection
3.05      Prior to the project, sewerage services were solely dependent on
allocations from the City's tax assessments. Under the project, the City
planned to raise a substantial part of its expenditures for sewerage through
fees to be collected as a surcharge on water bills, with the billing and col-
lection services to be provided by the Water Department of Selangor State for
a fee. A standard sewerage surcharge of M$0.60/1,000 IG of water consumption
was expected to be introduced from January 1977. Implementation of the sur-
charge was, however, delayed primarily because the Government (Cabinet) deter-
mined that the lower-income population, whose water bill had been increased by
20% in January 1976, could not afford another large increase which collective-
ly would have amounted to a total increase of 80-100% within a short period of



time. The Cabinet subsequently approved a modified proposal wherein the sur-
charge for residential consumers was lowered to M$0.40 while that for the
industrial/commercial consumers was raised to M$1.00. These rates were intro-
duced in 1978, and the results in 1981, 1982 and 1983 indicate that the new
rates generated an overall average rate of about M$0.60/1,000 IC for each one
of those years. Tariffs remained unchanged throughout the project period
(although they were effectively increased by 100% in February 1986) in
contrast to the forecast increase of 83% in 1979 ana 36% in 1982.
3.06      The charges for sewerage service are based on the consumer's water
consumption which is provided, metered and controlled by the Selangor State
Water Division (SSWD). The latter has no organizational relationship with the
SD. In order to avoid the unnecessary cost to SD of reading customers' meters
and preparing a separate sewerage bill, the sewerage surcharge is included
(but not in a readily identifiable way) in the customer's water bill. The
customers pay the entire bill to SSWD, and SSWD is subsequently required to
transfer to SD the amount received from sewerage surcharges after deducting a
small fee for the task involved. The main drawback of this arrangement is
that SD is dependent upon SSWD to read meters, prepare bills, collect th,    on
amounts due and exercise control--through disconnection of water supply             on
delinquent customers.
3.07      SSWD had staff constraints and problems with its computer.  These
led to delays in meter reading and in sending bills to customers. SSWD also
had difficulties in collecting payments froT/KLC for water delivered to Kuala
Lumpur residents through public standpipes.,   These factors, from time to
time, have delayed the transfer to SD of the amounts collected by SSWD as
sewerage surcharges. For over a year SSWD has been sending signals to SD that
it would be charging a fee of around 15% of the total sewerage bill for pro-
viding billing and collection service (instead of 1% assumed in the appraisal
report but never collected). More recently SSWD have informed SD that the
service fee would be applied retroactively, i.e., from the inception of the
sewerage surcharge. Only recently SSWD has provisionally transferred to SD,
pending further discussions, the amounts collected as sewerage surchages for
1984 and 1985, and after deducting 15% collection fee applied retroactively.
3.08      In a still more recenc development, SSWD has informed SD that it
does not wish to continue the present service of including the sewerage sur-
charge with the water bill. SSWD has, however, offered to provide SD with a
regular computer print-out of water consumption by households who are connect-
r-d to the sewerage system, with the objective of SD billinig and collecting
from its customers. Because of the apparent lack of interest of 'SWD in con-
tinuing to provide the service, there is the need for SD to examite other
methods such as taxation in order to ensure that payment for the sewerage
service is collected effectively and without nigh cost from direct users.
2/   It is not clear whether SSWD has the authority to disconnect water supply
of a consumer who has not paid his sewerage bill.
3/   Responsibility for this payment has been taken over by MFT.



- 10 -
IV. IUSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Organization and Staffing
4.01      The Sewerage and Drainage Department (SD) was established on Janu4ry
1,1976 to assume responsibility for all aspects of sewerage design,
construction and operation within the Federal Territory. Its organizational
structure, given in Annex 2, is slightly different from the one envisaged at
appraisal, but is appropriate to a public utility and has worked well. In
addition to undertaking the operation and maintenance of the city's sewerage
system (se: also para. 4.08) SD carried out design of minor system expansion
and supervision of construction. The proposed investment budget of SD in 1986
is M$12 million (which probably is optimistic) and the construction work is
carried out by the local contractors.
4.02      The Director of SD, who is its chief executive, reports to the
Director Gene;ral of KLC. SD has a total of around 300 permanent staff,
including profeslionals. Staff from the technical divisions are rotated in
order to broaden their experience. All SD staff, being employees of KLC, may
be transferred between the various city departments. Nevertheless, there
seems to be a reasonable degree of staff stability within SD.
4.03      SD functions as a self-accounting unit with its own commercial-type
accounting system, and has its own bank account into which all its revenues
are deposited and from which its expenditures are paid. SD prepares its own
financial statements, although this has sometimes been slow due to prolonged
illnesses of two successive Chief Accountants. Introduction ot the accounting
system proceeded smoothly with the help of a consultant under the project.
The system became operational on September 1, 1977, as planned and has been
functioning reasonably satisfactorily since then. Preparation of accounts
took a considerably long time in the earlier project years, but the situation
has been improving (para. 2.13). However, the very fact that the system has
been functioning reasonably satisfactorily within the time frame of one
project (in sharp contrast to the system falling into disuse in Selangor Water
Department para. 1.02) should be considered as a good achievement.
4.04      SD's accounting division is headed by a Senior Accountant and has a
permanent staff of 12. In its formative years, KLC's Treasurer's Department
provided bookkeeping services to SD in order to maintain its accounts; this
activity, with some exceptions, e.g., payroll, has been gradually taken over
by SD.
4.05      In the absence of a separate internal audit in SD, this activity is
carried out by the auditors of KLC's Treasurer. They check SD's system proce-
dures and transactions, and call to the attention of SD any shortcomings which
are noticed. Also, acco.incants are assigned by the Auditor General of
Malaysia to make continuous checks of expenditures and procedures of KLC's
various departments.



- 11 -
4.06      Training.  SD has Po separate training division and must rely on
KLC's central Training and Personnel Administration Department. The training
provided by this department is, however, limited in scope, and is not intended
to meet the special technical and accounting needs of SD staff. SD therefore
must train its staff using its own resources. A training program was prepared
under the project by SD in consultation with project-financed consultants.
The program included assignment of several SD engineers to work with the
project engineering consultants, seminars by the engineering consultants and
by a training specialists from the consulting firm, and training of accounting
staff by the management consultant. Three engineers were trained under the
project, two in sewer design and one in sewage treatment, each for a period of
about five months (November 1976 to March 1977). Training was supplemented by
lectures and discussions on pump station design, pond design and selection and
maintenance of mechanical equipment. From the financial division, one
accountant and two accounts clerks received on-the-job training with the
management consultants, each for about a year (November 1976 to October 1977).
SD also sent two of its engineers for short training courses in Japan
(Appendix B, para. 8).
4.07      Towards the end of the project period (late 1984), and following an
assessment of SD's training needs by SD officials and a Bank supervision
mission, three more technical staff (one works manager and two technical
assistants) were trained in France for three months in the operation and main-
tenance of treatment plants. While the Bank was prepared to finance this
training from the loan amount, part of the cost of training was eventually
covered by a French Government grant, and the other part of the cost was borne
by City Hall (Appendix B, para. 8). According to SD officials, this training
was more relevant to the needs of SD than that provided earlier. An assess-
ment of the need for training in operation and maintenance is now a sL3ndard
practice during the appraisal of Bank projects in the sector.
Drainage Activities
4.08      SD was required under a side letter (December 15, 1975) to phase out
its drainage activities withjn two years. Subsequently, the Bank agreed to
the request from KLC for SD to retain these activities, provided that SD would
have adequate additional staff and funds, the activity was accounted for
separately, and drainage expenditures were not met from sewerage revenues/
funds. The role of SD in drainage is small; most drainage activity in KL is
handled by the Federal Department of Irrigation and Drainage and by KLC's Road
Department.
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
5.01      It was indicated in the appraisal report that the principal sources
of SD's operating revenues would be: (a) direct user charges (the sewerage
surcharge) and (b) an area tax assessment, i.e., the allocation to SD by KLC
of a portion of the FT's area tax averaging at least 2% of annual property
va'lues whether sewered or not. Revenues from the two sources were expected to
meet the operating experses of SD and cover at least 1.2 times its debt



- 12 -
service charges. Under the project agreement, SD was also required to achieve
a rate of return of not less thar 7% on its net fixed assets in operation. A
tariff study carried out under the projett confirmed that 7% was adequate.
5.02      A comparison of income statements, balance sheets, and of sources
and applications of funds with the corresponding appraisal forecasts for the
period 1976-84 is given in Annex 3. SD's overall financial performance during
the period was satisfactory. Revenues were substantially lower than forecast;
however, cash operating expenses, interest and amortization charges, new
assets coming into operation and depreciation expenses for the corresponding
years were also lower than those forecast. Therefore, rate of return on
average net fixed assets in operat ?n was well over 10%, higher than the 7%
required under the Loan Agreement.-
5.03      A financial objective under the project was to ensure that direct-
user charges would progressively become the principal source of cost recovery
for sewerage services. Revenues from the sewerage surcharge, as a proportion
of SD's total revenues, were expected to increase from 42% (M$3.6 million) in
1976 to 66% (M$11.7 million) in 1980, and to 77% (M$24.7 million) in 1984.
Mainly because (a) the number of connections in existence at the time of
appraisal and added as a result of the project were far lower than those esti-
mated (para. 3.04), and (b) the sewerage surcharge was not increased as had
been envisaged (para. 3 05), actual revenues from the sewerage surcharge were
lower than projected -- around 40% of total revenues through 1983 and declin-
ing to about 20% in 1984. The project's specific cost recovery objective was,
therefore, not achieved, but it could not have been achieved even if the proj-
ect had been completed on schedule.
5.04      Revenues from sewerage surcharge, even though far lower than those
projected, have generally been marginally in excess of cash operating expen-
ses. SD has thus just about met the minimal requirements proposed by the Bank
for sewerage operations in countries which generally have a far lower GNP per
capita than that of Malaysia and consequently a lower individual capacity to
make direct payment to sewerage services. The expansion of a sewerage system
results in improvements in sanitation and in the rvironment, which benefits
the community as a whole, whether sewered or not.-   It would therefore not be
out of place for the community as a whole to be required to make some contri-
bution towards the costs of the sewerage system.
5.05      There are, however, no hard and fast rules as to the proportion of
costs of the sewerage system which should be borne by those directly connected
to the system and the proportion which should be borne by the community as a
whole. In this project, the revenues from the assessment fee--in effect an
4/   Throughout the project period SD received revenues from tax assessment.
While they were less than 2% of property values they were nevertheless
adequate for SD to meet the rate of return target.
5/   Sewerage system imposes financial costs while lack of it could impose
social/economic costs on the community.



- 13 -
extension of city's property tax and a budgetary transfer of a proportion of
that tax to SD-- ave been the main factor in the satisfactory financial per-
formance of SD.'  It seems, therefore, necessary to examine whether the
current users of the sewerage system bear their fair share of the costs in
relation to the costs borne by the community as a whole.
5.06      SD's satisfactory financial performance is manifested by its cash
and near-cash reserves in 1983 and 1984 which were over M$45 million. This is
most satisfactory for any sewerage utility, as such utilities are generally
barely able to meet cheir operating expenses. This cash reserve would come in
handy during the proposed Second Sewerage Project.
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
6.01      The project achieved its major objectives, i.e., the development of
an institution capable of dealing with the subsector and the financial viabi-
lity of sewerage operations, within the time frame of one project cycle -- a
rere achievement indeed. The Bank was instrumental in the creation of a sepa-
rate department for sewerage operations, in the establishment of a commercial
accounting system, and in the adoption of cost recovery measures.
6.02      Project supervision was effective and intensive.  Bank staff esta-
blished a good working relationship with SD officers. They intervened with
the relevant GOM and KLC officials to expedite the appointment of consultants
and contractors which had been unduly protracted, and the acquisition of land,
and with the electricity utility (a Bank borrower) to speed up the supply of
power to SD.
6.03      The problems delaying land acquisition and occupant resettlement
could not have been foreseen at appraisal. The project was predicated on an
agreement that Government would ensure the prompt acquisition of land required
for the project and that resettlement arrangements would be made under the
Second Urban Transport Project. However, the process of land acquisition was
far more complicated than could reasonably be expected and the Transport Proj-
ect's sites and services component was cancelled.  The latter problem was com-
plicated by the major housing task outside of the project which faced KLC and
rendered the project resettlement requirements of much less priority.
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project contributed to the institutional development of the sub-
sector through the creation of a separate sewerage department for Kuala Lumpur
6/   SD's assessment revenues in 1985 totalled M15 million and are expected to
be M$17 million in 1986; these would still be less than 2% of the
property values.



- 14 -
and the intrnduction of a commercial accounting system. Additionally, it con-
tributed towards ensuring the financial viability of sewerage operations.
7.02      The project replaced the existing unhygienic methods of excreta
disposal by a hygienically superior system, providing health and other bene-
fits to the rapidly growing capital city which cannot be easily measured. The
project also reduced the problem of obtaining the special and scarce labor
force needed for emptying bucket latrines. It also provided a simple treat-
ment process for waste water and thereby contributed to limiting pollution of
KL's surface waters. Therefore, even with the smaller number of additional
households serviced by the project the justification for the project, remains
valid.
7.03      A survey of KL school children carried out in 1982 (i.e., before the
project facilities were operational) showed about 50% had intestinal para-
sites, compared to 10% in Korea, 3% in Taiwan and 0.3% in Japan. Such a high
level of infestation is one of the proven indicators of inadequate excreta
disposal methods. On the other hand, the incidence of diseases related to
unsatisfactory water quality used for consumption has decreased significantly
in KL in recent years. The incidence of water-related diseases is now almost
on the level of some developed countries and reflects, no doubt, on the very
high percentage (over 90%) of population served with piped water. It can
therefore be concluded that there were valid grounds for expanding the city's
sewerage system which, until the project, serviced only about 25% of the
city's population.
7.04      The project reduced the potential proliferation of septic tanks and,
more importantly, of smaller, private sewerage treatment plants which would
have been built by developers. Because the unit construction and operation
costs of a central sewerage system are generally lower than those of smaller
plants, the project provided a savings in costs to the economy.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
8.01      The project achieved its major institutional and financial objec-
tives. The newly created separate department for sewerage operations is func-
tioning reasonably well, and its financial performance has been better than
expected at appraisal. The project also achieved reasonable physical objec-
tives, ioe., increasing the number of premises connected to the central sewer
system.
8.02      Project implementation took much longer than expected because of
problems in acquiring land and relocating people affected by the project.
While the housing problem might have been foreseen, the actual time taken to
acquire land would probably have been about the same. However, despite the
long delay in project completion, the final project cost is marginally lower
than estimated at appraisal.
8.04      Other objectives/actions, dealing with environmental protection and
the long-term development of the Kuala Lumpur/Selangor State area and not



- 15 -
directly related to project construction or within the direct control or area
of responsibility of SD, vere not achieved. These objectives were included
under loan covenants 4.02-4.04, but it is not clear whether Selangor State,
which was not a party to the agreements, was committed to them. They were not
followed by later Bank supervision missions because repeated inquirias by ear-
lier missions were not fruitful. A question arises whether it would be more
useful for the Bank formally to delete such objectives when face's with such
circumstances in order to maintain the integrity of covenants in the loan and
project agreements, or, alternatively, to identify the need for such objec-
tives in the appraisal report but to exclude them from the loan covenants
because of the possibility that those objectives, not being directly a part of
the physical project, may get deferred for the future, e.g., a second Bank
operation.
8.05      The overestimation in the Master Plan of the number of existing and
projected sewer connections (para. 4.03) illustrates a special situation the
Bank staff have to live with. There is not much the appraisal mission can do
other than satisfying itself: (a) on the competence of the consultants under-
taking the study; (b) on the soundness of methodology and procedures used for
obtaining baseline data and for developing forecasts; and (c) with a spot
check on their work/study. In this particular case, however, it is not clear
whether a more accurate assessment of the existing and projected number of
connections would have resulted in a substantially different project.
Lessons Learned
8.06 (a)  The success of the institutional and financial objectives, within
the unusual time frame of one project, reflects the commitment from
KLC to the above objectives, in sharp contrast to the failure to
achieve the objectives regarding environmental aspects, future
development (para. 8.04). The single important lesson from the
experience of this project is that a competent management of the
utility and a continuing commitment--rather than merely an agree-
ment--to the institutional and financial objectives from the entity
which has the overall responsibility and authority over the utility
are vital to the achievement of those objectives.
(b)  The process of land acquisition is particularly slow and difficult
in Kuala Lumpur area because of cumbersome bureaucratic procedures
and rivalries between Kuala Lumpur and the Selangor State. There-
fore, projects requiring the acquisition of land should be designed
to allow adequate time for this process. It might even be
preferable to have the land--particularly that required in the
earlier years of project implementation--acquired before the loan is
presented to the Board.



- 16 -                             Annex 1
Page I of 2
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT (LN 1213-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Compliance with Loan Conditions
Lcan (L) Project (P)
Agreement
Section                Subject             Compliance                  Remarks
L  3.02               Land Alienation              S                Complied with after
considerable delays which,
in turn, delayed project
implementation.
L  3.03               Causing the State            I               KLC has not yet received
of Selangor to share                         payment from Selangor.
with KLC the cost of
common facilities.
L  4.02               Water pollution control    U                 )Was not followed up by
in Kl*49 valley.                            )the later supervision
)missions because repeated
L  4.03               Agency responsible for       U               )inquiries made by earlier
above 4.02.                                 )supervision missions were
)not fruitful.
L  4.04               Development plan for         U              )
Kuala Lumpur and the                        )
adjacent areas.
L  4.05               Urban planning in            I                Identical clauses were
Kuala Lumpur                                 included under LN 1214-MA
Metropolitan area.                           (Urban Transportation Project);
however, lack of Government
interest precluded meaningful
progress.
L  4.06(i)            Sewerage surcharge on        S               )Implemented with a 2-year delay
water bills to be levied                    )and further marred by Selangor
by Selangor Water Department                )Water Department's problems with
(ii)            Legal provision for joint                   )billings and collections, and
payment of water and sewerage               )also with KLC. Payments, never-
charges and for disconnecting               )theless, were 2ventually made
delinquent customers.                       )to SD.
L  4.07               Maintain adequate cash
level.                       S
P  2.02               Employment of consiultants  S                But late.
P  2.03-2.04          Procurement                  S
P  2.05-2.06           Information on              S                Reports were sometimes
Project, etc.                               delayed, but are of quite
appropriate content.
Satisfactory (S); Unsatisfactory (U); Incomplete (I).



- 17 -                           Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
Loan (L)/ Project (p)
Agreement
Section                 Subject            Compliance                   Reuaarkq
P  2.07                 Sharing of fe-ili-          I                    No follow-up discussions
ties with the State                              (see L 3.03)
of Selangor
P  2.08                Relocation of                S                Contributed to delays
Residents's from lands                        in project implementation. 1/
used for the project.
P 3.01 &               Separate accounting          S
Side                division for SD
Leter
12/15/78            SD to deal with               S               Limited permanent drainage
sewerage exclusively                         function agreed by the Bank
on June 16, 1977.
P  3.02 &             Management &                  S                Recruitment of operations
Side Letter        staffing                                      staff has lagged; but was not
12/15/78                                                         critical because completion of
the project was delayed.
p  3.05           (a) Training Program              S
for staff.
(b) Management consultant        S
P  4.01               Appropriate Accounting
Practices                    S
P  4.02               Audited Accounts              S               1982 audited accounts were
received in 1985. 2/
P  4.03               Adequate level of             S               Through 1984 3/
cash for SD
P  4.04           (a) Tax assessment and sew-    S                  Through 1984 3/
erage charges to generate
adequate revenues for 7%
rate of return and 1.2 times
debt service coverage.
P  4.04           (c) Carry out rate of return   S                  But late.
study by Dec. 78.
P  4.05               Compulsory changes and        S
connection to sewers.
P  4.07               Debt Limitation               S
1/ The Urban Transportation Project (Loan 1214-MA) had a sites and services component to cater
for, among other things, the relocation of residents from the lands used for the Sewerage
Project. That component was not carried out. Relocation was, however, carried out but
after long delays arising mainly in the acquisition of land.
2/ Earlier reports were received after substantial delays, but the situation has been improving.
3/ Based on unaudited accounts.



Ministry of Federal Territory
Mayor
L     Director General
Go                                                   Sewerage Department
,           Director
Administration       Accounting             Planning and Conto                   Design               Operations and
Administration                Accounting             Planning and Contro                   and                Maintenance Division
Division                   Division                    Division                Construction Div.
Administrative           Senior Accountant           Senior Engineer               Senior Engineer             Senior Chemist
Officer



MALAYSIA
KUALA LtMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 1213-MA)
MARCH 1986 SUPERVISION MISSION
Ituala Luopur Sewerage Department
Incomu Statement - Estimated and Actual, 1976-84
(MS '001))
As of Decemtber 31                   1976               1977                1978               1979               1980                1981                 1982                 1983                1984
Fvstimate  Actual  Estimate  Actual  Fttimate  Actual  Esti,sa    Actual  Estimate   Actual  estimate   Actuial  Estlmate   Actual  Estimate   Actual  Estimate   Actual
(draft)
Operating Revenue
Sewerage fees based on water
consumption                            3,S80         -    3,707        16      3,938   2,202      8,197   1,8R9    11,695    2,4R6    15,743    2,731    2n,243    3,011    22,442    3,361    24,687    3,83
Less water division collectton fee           36        -        317       -         39       30        82       30        117       30        157      110        202       110       224       380       247       187
Balance                               _3544          _    3,670        16      3.899   2,t72      8.115   1,R59    11,578    2,456    15.586    2,621    20,041    2.901    22,218    3.181    24,440    3.706
Less proviston for bad debts                 18        -        19        -         20        -        41        -         58        -         79        -        101         -       112         -        123        -
Net sewersge fees                      3,526         -    3,651        16      3.879   2.172      8.074   1,RS9    11,52n    2.456    15.507    2,621    10 940    2.901    22,106    3.1R1    24,317    3;.706
Septic tank servicing fees                 213        34       234       37        363       32       399       35       439        63        613       55        613        46       613        48       613         -
Other  ter-vlce revenue                       -      343         -      446          -      464         -      497          -      7R2          n      628          -       533         -       958         -    1,360
Areo tax assessment fo- sewerage         4,R00    4,800    5,000    5,000        5,220   5,200      5.462   5,400      5,728    5,600       6,021    5,800      6,143    6,00n      6,697    6.200      7,104   12,600
Total Operating Reverpue             8,539    5,177    8,885    5.499        9.462   7,868    13,935  7_791    17,687    R,901    22,t41    9,104    26,R96    9,480    29,416   In0387    32.034   17.666
Operating Expenses
Operating expenses (including power
-aaintenance, seotic tank servicing
and admintstration)                    1,065    1,090    2,187    1,795        2,471   1,711      2,961   1,R52      3,714    2,034      4,759    2,512       5,070    2,766      5,379    3,085      5,680    4,249
Depreciation                             1,459    1,202    1.540    1,250        1,562   1,325      2,040   1,767      3,142    1,248      4,679    1,313       5,323    1,302      6,093    1,628      6,902    2,689
Total Operating Expenses             3.424    2,292    3          3,045      4,n33   3,036      5nl0l   3,119      6,856    1,332      9,438    3,826    10.393    4,068    11,472    4,713    12.SR2    6.938
Net operating income before interest   5,115    2.885    5,158    2,454          5,429   4,832      8,934   4,672    10,831    5,569    12,703    5,279    16,503    5,412    17,944    5,674    19,452   10,728
Nr'operating revenues, expenses
and charges (net-                          -         9         -       52          -     321          -      19R         -        22          -      159          -      769          -    1,985          -    4,576
Net Income Before Intereot           5,115    2,876    5,158    2,506        5 429   5,153      8,934   4,870    10,831    5,547    12,703    5,438    16,503    6,181    17,944    7,659    19,452   15,304
Interest (excluding interest charged
to constructitn)                       1,279    1,178    1,237    1,135        1,192   1,094      1,146   1,045      1,n96    1,000    1n0R47        949    10,776       895    10,490       839    10,177        779
Net ncotmeo                             3t838    1,69A    3.921    1,371       4,237   4,059      7,788   3,822      9,735    4,547      1,856    4,489       5,727    5,286      7,454    6,820      9,275   14,525
Opersting expenses. as percent of
operating revenue                         40        44       42        55         43       t9        36      40         10        38        43        43         39       44         39       46         39        39 I
Avrerage Oct fIxed assets Sa service   42,t71   40,407   33,779   41,397    61,480  42,670    88,929  41,527   137,5n4   44,440   179,723   45,505   20n,485   46,331   231.357   52,881   258,003  107,844 5V
Rate of return (percent)                   12.1      7.1      9.6       s.9        8.8    J1.3       10.0    10.7        7.0      12.5        7.1     11.6       8A.      It.7        7,R      In.7       7.5       9.9c 



MAL.AYt.A
KVALA L1thl1R SEWePACE PROJECT (LOAN 1213-MA)
MARCH 1986 SRIPERVISION MTSSION
Kuala Lutpisr Sewerage Department
Sources and Applications of Funds - Estimated and Actual. 1976-64
(14S'-0o0)
As of December 31                      1976                IQ77                1978                1979                19R0                 1981                 1982                  198t                 1984
Estimate  Actual   satimate  Actual  Estimate  Actual  Fsttiate  Actual  Estimate   Actual  Estmtmate   Aetual  Fstt,to   AF'tal  Fsti,mte   Actual  rstinate   Actual
(draft)
Sources of Funds
Net profit before Interest                 5,115    2,R76    5,tSR       2,506      5,429   S,153       8,934   4.A70    10,R31    5,547    12,703    5.438    16,S03    6,181    17,944    7,659    19,452   15,304
Adjustment of profit not affecting
movement of fund:
Depreciation                           1,459    1,2n2    1,540       1,250      1,162   !,s25       2,040   1,267       3,142    1,298      4,679    1,113        ;,321     1,302     6,093    1,628       6,902    2,680
Less on retirement of property             -         9         -       186          -        -          -        -          -        73          -        42          -        (3)         -
Prtor year adjustment to profit            -         -         -       (29)         -        -          -       17          -       (23)         -       270          -       (18)         -       13R          -       (15)
Internal cash generation                   6,574    4,087    6,698    3,913         6,991   6,478    10.974   6,154        13,973    6,895    17,382    7,063    21,826    7,462    24,037    9,425    26,354   17,978
Less Increase in current items               547   I1R63          22       5n0         48  21,47n         7!6 (10,774)        620      (8A9)       759   10,117         780   11,654         402    7,893         411    7,996
Net cash generation                      6,027    2,224    6,676    3,412         6,943 (14,992)   10,258  16,928    13,353    7,704    16,623    3,054    21,046   (4,192)   2t,635    1,532    25,943    9.982
Loans
I'IR)                                      435         -    2,86R        7n9    ln,770   1,197    19,190   7,455    15,925   10,622           4.562    6,909            -    7,417           -    4,965           -    3,358
Governmeent project                    20,400          -    8,500          -    25,300  25,700    34,200   1,500          3,800   19,896    (4,562)  19,117             -   20,799           -   16,409           -    5,256
Stage 2                                      -         -         -                    -        -          -        -          -         -    26,30n                76,400         -    25,200          -    24,400          -
Total Loans                          20,835          -   11,368        709    36,070  26,897    53,390 8,955    19,725   30,518    26,3n0   26.026    26,400   24.024    25,200   21.374    24.400    8,614
Contribution (includinR contribution
from City of Ituala Lumpur, hovt.
of Malaysia and Individuals)               815    2,621          -    2,815           -       39          -   3,524           -    3,337           -   (5,066)          -    5,533           -    1,640           -    2,176
Total Sources                        27,677    4,845   18,044    6.936    43,013  11.944    63,648  29,407    33,078   41,559    42,923   17,886    47,446   29,557    4R,83S   24,546    S0,343   20,772
Application of Funds
Capital cxpenditure
Project                                 23,147       922   13,90)4    1,9R3    37,266   9,741        55,006  22,426    21,721   32.443             -   20,804           -   21,425           -   15,057           -    7,762
Other                                      R15    1,725          -    1,216           -      823          -   3,274           -    3,323           -   (5,694)          -       750          -    1,480           -       966
Stage 2                                                -         -              -         -         -              -          -         -    30,000          -    30,00n          -    30,on0          -    30,0n0          -
Total                                23.962    2,647   13,904    3.199    37,266  10,564    55,006  25,700    21,721   35,766    30,00n   15,110    3n.000   22,175    30,000   16,537    30.000    8,72R ,4
Debt service
Interest
TURD loan                               414        26n      534       402       1,n51     559      2,238      840      3,59R    1.545       4,463    2,211       4,S29    2,65n       4,367    2,A13       4.19n    2,855
Government loan - prolect                612         -    1,479          -      2,493      l15     4,278       395      5,418    1,378      5,340    1,346       5,2S8    1,447       5,192    3,023       5,121    5,256
Government loan - existinR             1,274    1,194    1,237    1,154         1,192   1,111       1,146   1,067       1,096    1,019       1,044      969        989                   4 931    862         R66      803
Stage 2 loan                               -         -         -         -          -        -          -        -          -         -        7R9         -     2,370          -     3,918          -     5,460          -
Total Interest                         2,30S     1,454    3.250      1,556     4,736   1,785       7,662   2.3t2    1n,112    3,942    11,636    4,526    13,146    5,014    14,408    6,6eR              15.583    8.914
Amortization
r8RD loan                                    -         -         -         -          -        -          -        -          -         -          -         -      1,879         -     2,n41          -     2,218    1,861
Government loan - project                    -         -         -         -          -        -          -        -          -         -          -         -      1,109         -      1,175         -      1,246         -
Government loan - existing                 765       744       807       784        852      R27        898      R72        94R       919    l,n0         969      1,n55    1,021       1,113    1,077       1,178    1,135
Total Amortization                       765       744      807        78k        852     827         898     872         948      919       1,0(1       969     4,043    1,021       4,329    1,077       4,642    2,996
Total Debt Service                     3,n7n    2,198    4,057    2.340        5.588   2612        8.56     . t,l74    It1n6O    4,861     12,636    5,495    17,18)       6.035    IR,737    7.775    2n.225   11.910
Total Applications                   27,032    4,845   17,961    5.539    42,854  13,176    63,566  28,874    32,781   4n,627    42,636   2n,605    47,189   28,210    48,737   24,312    50,225   20,638
Addition to cash                             64S         -        83    1,397         159  (1,232)         82      533        297       932        2R7   (2,719)        257    1,347          98       234        118       210
Cash at end of year                          645         -       728    1,397         687      165        969      698      1,266    1,630       1,553   (1,088)    1,80n         258      1,908       493      2,026       702
Debt service covered - times                 2.0       2.2       1.6      2.96        1.2    4.57         1.2    1.87         1.2      1.41        1.3       1.?        1.2      1.46        1.1      1.3         1.3 t51S
'0:



MALAYSIA
KUALA LtlMPUR SEWERACL PROJECT (LOAN 1213-MA)
MARCH 1986 SUPRVRISION MISSION
K.uala Lumpur Sewerage Dhepartment
Balance Sheet - Estleated and Actual, 1976-84
(FS 00OO)
As of December 31                    1976               1977                1978               1979               l98n                1981                1982                  1983                1984
Estimate  Actual  Rstimate  Actual  Estlmate  Actual  Estimate  Actual  IEstimate   Actual  Fsc1,et.   Actual   stimate   Actual  Patimate   Actual  'stimate   Actual
(draft)
Assets
Fixed assets
Gross fixed assets                    77,0nn   57,772   78,315   59,6n6    96.n05  62,721   136,815  63,933   198,317   67,124   229,074   69,39?   259,R61   713116   292,2'3   93,779   326151  195,3no
Less accumulated depreciation         23,359   16,7S2   24,899   17,832    26,461  19,156    28,501  20,465    31,643   21,732    36,322   22,975    41,645   24,272    47,738   35,060    54,640   37,756
Met fixed assets                    54,141   41,020   53,416   41.774    69,544  43,565   108,314  43,48   166,694   4S,392   192,752   45,617   21R.218   47,n44   244,495   58,719   271,511  157.544
Construction In progress                 2,588    2,420   17,690    3,732    40,810  tl,885    61,522  37.643    30,737   73,193    30,789   89,913    32,370  113,463    33,918  131,762    35,406   *7,390
Total Fixed Assets                  56,729   43,44n   71,106   45,506   110,354  53,450   169,836  81,131   197,431  IIR,58S   223,541  235.330   250,588  16n,307   278,413  190,482   306,917  2n4,94
Current assets
Cash & temporary casb investments        645         -      728    4,397         R87  27,415                  .8     1,266   22,38n       1,553   3n,921      1,8Rn   3R,787      1,908   4R,993      2,026   46,124
Prepayments                                -         -        -       164          -       -                   -         -    t,500          -       25q          -      369          -      259          -        68
Accounts receivable                      623    3,48n       648    1,613         707   2,958              6,223      1,993   12,314      2,687    4,443       3,426   12,206      3,787    7,5265     4,255   17,918
Inventory                                 91       155       97       198         98     176                 146       200       115       308       126        362      127        416       206       472       376
Tntal Current Assets                 1,359    1,635    t,473    6,372        1,692  30,549      2, ln  20,817      3,45q   26,309      4,S48   35,739      5,IS9    46,489      6,111   57,n2l      6,6S3   64,486
TOTAL ASSETS                        58,088   47,075   72,579   51,87R   112,046  85,999   172,346 101,948   200,890  144,894   228,089  171,269   256,186  206,996   284,524  247,504   313,570  269,420
Liabilities and Equity
Equity
Contributed capital                   1n,873   1n,719   10,873   13,534    In0873  13,573    10,873  17,097    10,873   2n.546    2n,873   15,46n    In0873   21,004    1n,873   22,644    1..,873   24,824
Assets reserves                            -   11,647         -   11,536           -  11,905          -  12,202          -   12,424          -   12,685           -   12,992          -   31,759          -   32.679
Retained earnings                      3,836    1,698    7,757    3,041    11,944   6,735    19,782  In,213    29,517   14,413   31,373   18,927    37,100   23,878    44,554   21,297    S2,829   35,21-
Total Equity                        14,709   24,064   18,630   28,111    22,867  32,211    30,655  19,532    40,390   47,453    42,246   47,070    47,973   57,874    55.427   75,700    64,702   92,656
Long-term debt
IBRD loan                                435         -    3.303       722    14,073   1,948    33,263   9,458    49,188   20,156    53,750   26,755    52,871   34,172    49,830   39,137    47,612   39,n9g
Government loan - project             20,400         -   28,900              54,200  25,700    88,400  27,200    92,200   47,096    87,638   66,213    86,529   87,013    85,354  103,422    84,108                -
Government loan - existing            22,462   21,482   21,655   20,697    20,803  19,871    19,905  18,999    18,957   18,80n   17,937   17,111    16,9n2   16,n90    1I,789   13,013    14,611  121,479
Stage 2 loans                              -         -        -         -          -       -          -       -          -         -    26,300         -    52,7nO         -    77,900         -   102,300          -
Less. Current maturitles                (807)    (78S)    (852)    (827)        (898)   (872)      (948)   (919)   (1,000)    (964)   (4,043)  (2,n21)   (4,32q)  (1,n77)   (4,642)  (1,133)   (4,85R)              -
Total Long-Term Debt                42,490   20,697   53,006   20,592    88,178  46,647   140,620  54,738   159,345   h4,363   181,602  109,n58   203,673 136.198R   224,231  156,437   243,773  160.576
Current liabilities
Accounts payable                          82    1.529        91    2,348         103   6,269        123   6.759        155   12ln19         198   14,120        211   11,847        274   2n,227        217    9.421
Current debt maturities                  807       785      852       827        898     C72        948     919      10onn       969     4,043    1,021      4,329    t,077       4,642    5,14n      4,858    6,767
Total Current Liabilittes              88q    2.314       943    3,175       1,001   7.141      t.O71   7.678      1.155   13,078      4.241   15,141      4,540   12,924       4,866   15,367      5.095   16.188
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY          58,088   47.075   72,579   51,878   112,046  85,999   172.3&6 101.948   200,890  144,894   288,089  171,269   256,186  206,996   284,524  247,504   313,570  269,420



APPENDIX A
PEJABAT KETUA AUDIT NEGARA.            - 22 -
f OFFICE OF THE AUDITOR-GENERAL)
MALAYSIA.
50S18 KUALA LUMPUR
Telelim 298042
Kawat: 'AUDITNEGARA K.L.
AIR MAI,                                    Rul. Tuan:
Brian Rhields Esquire,                        Ruj Kami: DBL.257/(2)
Chief,
Enegy, Infrastructure and                     Tarikh:   26 August 1986.
Urban Developmet,
Operatic,ns Evaluation Department,
The Internationa Bank For Reconstruction
And Development,
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
U*S.A.
Dear Slr,
NOTES FROM THE REGION
Res Project Completion Report on Malaysia
Kuala Lumpur Sewerage Project
(Loan 1213 - MA) - u.s. $20.5 million
Thank you for your comnication dated August 4 instant
inviting my cobtents on the draft Project Completion Report
(PCR) relating to the above mentioned project.
2.     As you are aware, section 4.02 of the Project
Agreement requires me to audit the accounts and financial
statements of Sewerage Department of Kuala Lumpur City for
each fiscal year and to report thereon. .he accounts and
financial statements have been duly examined and reported
upon up to the year of account ending 31st December 1983
and I believe that they have been made available to you.
Any comments or qualifications on the accounts have been so            taken into account
mentioned in my report attached to the audit certificate               in  into 2.14
together w'.th the certified statement of accounts. The 1984          in para 2.14
statement of accounts are presently under audit. The 1985
statements have not been submitted for audit.
3.     I trust that the above information will be useful
to yDU.
Yours sincerely,
(ong Thean Tc 
for Auditor General,
Malaysia.
COc.
Mr. K. Ariyathavaratnam,
Chief Engineer (Sewerage)
City Hall,
Jalan Raja Laut,                                      ,S
Tcusl1a Lumour 01-04,



*F                ,LWisU-  23 -                                     APPENDIX B
p, L                             4~~~.   J1-L ~Page 1
DEWAN BANDARAYA KUALA LUMPUR
JABATAN PEMBETLN(CAN I)AN PERK.RIJTA
4    dF          TIN(iKAT 16. lALAN RAJA I WT r.          Pi II St'R %I 112'
BAN(OUNAN DE%% AN' AARAk .\               1111 0 ()\tiil I
KIUo liALA I UMPLR                       -I I I. \ DIIKI \U 'IN%xi
8d1 Surat Kam.(115  in J-JP.21/77 Pt.5
81 Surat Tuan
4th September, i9 36.
Chief,
Energy, Infrastructure & Urban Development,
Operations Evaluation Department,
The International Bank for Reconstruction & Development,
1818 H Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20433,
U.S,A.
Dear 1Ir. Brian Shields,                                          NOTES FROM THE REGION
Project Completion Report on 11alaysia -                                     NOTES FROM
Kuala Lumpur Sewerage Project (Loan J  zi-I).                                 AEPUW
1. I thank you for forwarding to me a copy of the Draft Proje^t Corrialetion
Report and regret the delay in replying. y commients are as follows:-
Pro4ect Description
2. Three new sewage treatment plants were constructed in Bunust Lower Kerayong taken into
and Puchong.  The plant in Pantai was extended and a pilot plant was also   account in para.
constructed. The treatment plants at Pantai and Bunus are aerated oxidation2.02 (b)
ponds.
Project Implementation
3. The time alloceted for land acquisition was too short.  Land matters should  taken into
preferably be resolved before commencement of plysioal project inplementation.aecount in
The time required for land acquisition should not be incorporated into the para 8.06(b)
consultants programme of wiorks so as to avoid payment of additional fees to
consultants. Preferably, the 2arlk Loan AGreerent should also be sigred so as
to be made effective after all land acquisition matters have been resolved.
This is to avoid payment of unnecesszary comnitment charges. Land acquisition
and resettlement of squatters can become a political tiocio-ecornomlic oroblem.
Due to its sencitivity, constant dialogue to obtain the co-operation of the
people affected is necessary. This takes time. City Hall nd the Federal
Government spent approximately 1$38 million for the resettlement of squatters
and land acquisition for the implementation of Phaae I.
Procurement
4. Contract 103D was awarded aGainst the 3ank£s wishes to the second lowest ten- taken into
der by Sarikon Sdn.Bhd.  hese works were completed satisfactorily and paid   account in
para. 2.11
Contd .....2



APPENDIX B
-24 -                         Page 2
for from outside the Bank's financing. As the Government of Malaysia has a
stated policy under the National Economic Policy to encourage Bumiputra con-
tractors, it is hoped that the Bank will support this policy of the Government
provided the contractor has a proven track record to carry out such works
satisfactorily.
NOTES FROM THE REGION
Project Cost
5. City Hall bas still to settle two claims amounting to M$2,279,657.28 for Con-   taken into
tract 103A and Contract 103C.  The consultants have recommended r$l,QO+4,373.75. account in foot-
An amount of M5475,000/- as an advance payment has been paid to th, contractors note to table 1,
against these claims and the balance is being negotiated and will be paid for   para. 2.09
from City Hall's funds. These claims are due to delay in giving possession of
site, relocation of services, delay in the provision of electrical supply to
the plants and delay in getting consultants' instructions.
tinance
6. The Waterworks Department, Selangor, has problems in billing customers and
though this report states that these problems had been resolved since, this
Department ca=not confirm this until all the monies due to this Department for
sewerage surcharges, billed and collected by Waterworks Department, are remitted
in full. The Department has to-date 5 term contractors to carry out sewer con-
nections to premises that are to be connected to the Kuala Lumpur Sewerage          taken into
Phase 1. To-date, MS12.5 million value of works have been issued to the con-   account in para.
tractors of which MS$O million value of works have been completed. Approxi-    3.03
mately 70% of the existing premises under the Phase I have been coniected to
the sewer.
Performance of Consultants Contractors and Suppliers
7. The present outstanding claims should have been settled by the consultants with taken into
the contractors soon after completion of the project when the relevamt matters   account in para.
are fresh in their minds. Additional fees bad to be paid to the consultants to 2.12
evaluate the claims on completion of the project. The consultants in carrying
out their duties with regard to inspection, testing and installation of the
pumps in the Pantai Pilot Plant and Pantai Main Plant did not enforce the speci-
fications rigidly though testing of the pumps were witnessed by the Chief
Resident Engineer in Japan at client's cost. The pumps failed the test when
installed in Kuala Lumpur and also failed to function as sewage pumps. The
failure to detect the problems of the pumps in the initial stage is mainly due
to the unsatisfactory supervision during this phase of the contrect by staffs
who did not have the experience and expertise to handle such works. As a
further result of this, the pilot plant became non-operational and did not
serve its purpose. The faulty pumps are now being replaced by the contractors
at their own cost.
TrainiEn
8. The training cost for Senior Chemist and two Technical Assistants was partly         taken into
borne by City Hall from its own funds for the one-way air ticket to France           account in para.
and the tuition fees for the 3 officers amounting to 75,000 F.F.                     4.07
Sontld.....3



-25-                ~~~~~APPENDIX B
-25 -                      Page 3
NOTES FROM THE REGION
In the planning, designs calling of tenders and the supervision of the con-
struction for future schemes, local consultants should play a bigger role so
that there is a proper transfer of technology and for continuity of the works
if necessary. More staff from this D-partment should be involved in the pro-
ject implementation so as to benefit from the experience and facilitate the
taking over of the project from the consultants for the maintenance and         taken into
operations of the system. The Department has also sent two of its Engineers account in para.
to Japan for training courses and others for seminars relevant to this Depart- 4.06
ment during the implementation of the Phase I.
Conclusion
9. This project has been successfully completed despite certain short-comings
which are identified above. It is hoped that the experience gained and the
lessons learned in the implementation of the Phase I would help in the imple-
mentation of the Phase II. The implementation of this scheme has definitely
improved the environment and the sanitary condition in the City of Kuala
Lumpur. The Department is grateful to Mr. Edouard H. Motte and ltr. Thomas A.
Pereira of the World Bank for their co-operation and advice in the implementat-
ion of the Phase I. This Department would also like to thank all other offi-
cials of the World Bank for their keen interest during the implementation of
this scheme.
Thank you very much.
Yours sincerely,
(K. Ariyathavaratnam)
Director,
Sewerage & Drainage Department,
City Hall Kuala Lumpur.
for Mayor of Kuala Lumpur.
c.c. Ketua Pengarah, Dewan Bandaraya, Kuala Lumpur.
Auditor General, Malaysia,
Pejabat Ketua Audit Negara, Malaysia,
Jalan Chenderasari, 50518 Kuala Lumpur.
"  En. Rahim Haji Din,
Dy. Director General (Sectoral),
Economic Planning Unit,
Prime Minister's Department,
Jalan Dato' Onn, Kuala Lumpur.
D Lr. Mohd. Noor Haji Harun,
Director of Infrastructure,
Economic Planning Unit,
Jalan Dato' Onn Kuala Lumpur.
it En. Y.B. Tan Sri Zain Azraai,
Secretar, General,



