Report No. 890a-MA                                                               FILE  COPY
Malaysia
Appraisal of the Kuala Lumpur
Sewerage Project
February 2, 1976
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
Water Supply Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
international Development Association
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =  Malaysian Dollar (M$)
M$ 1.00                    a  100 cents
US$1,00                    -  M$ 2.50
M$ 1.00                    a  US$0.40
M$1 million                =  US$400,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 mm    =    1 millimeter          =  0.04 inches (in)
1 m     -    1 meter               m  3.28 feet (ft)
1 km          1 kilometer         -  0.62 miles (mi)
mg/i    -    milligram per liter
I kg    3    1 kilogram               2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 ha    -    1 hectare                2.47 acres (ac)
1 Ig    -    1 Imperial gallon    -  1.2 US gallons or 4.55 liters
Igd          Imperial gallon per day
1Mg     -    million Imperial gallon
IMgd    -    million Imperial gallons per day
sec     3    second
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Government                     -    Government of Malaysia
FT                             =    Federal Territory
City                                City of Kuala Lumpur
SD                             =    Sewerage Department of City
of Kuala Lumpur
WD                                  Water Division of Selangor State
UDA                            =    Urban Development Authority
EHE                            =    Environmental Health Engineering
Unit
DOE                                 Department of the Environment
BOD                            =    Biochemical oxygen demand
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ................ ..........*.  i - ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ...........................................                         1         .oe   oo9  
II.    THE SECTOR ......................*.                        ...     ......         2
The Country and its Economy                    ......................      2
Sector Development ...............................                         2
Sector Organization  ............oooo.. oo.. *.****.....                   4
III.    THE PROJECT ....................... 9qo.o..        o....o... ....o .               5
Project Description  *...........................                          5
Cost Estimates ..........                             ....... *0           5
Land  .....       ..................* .... 9*   ....  ..*.*o              6
Amount of Proposed Loan                   ..........................       6
Design and Construction Supervision  .........9.....                      7
Management Consultants and Training  . ....               ...   .          7
Procurement  7**..*.............................                           7
Disbursement .0.0.0.0.0.0.000 ...0. ..... * 0 a  ......a.............. 000000000  8
Closing Date  ...........................0 0......0                        8
Environmental Aspects ...                9.........................        9
Future Development 0000000000000               ..     0000000000           9
Other Issues                .....................................          9
IV.    JUSTIFICATION  ....... o...........                       ..........o.           10
V.    THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARY     .....................                       11
The Borrower *....................................                        11
The Beneficiary                                      .     .000 *         12
Organization and Management                                               12
Accounting and Finance                                                    13
Billing and Collection                                                    14
Audit                                                                     15
This report was prepared by Messrs. K.C. Smeltzer (Financial Analyst)and
A.E. Bruestle and E.A. LaBahn (Sanitary Engineers).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
VI.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS ..............eO9*S 9e**B*9, ,        .     15
Record of Finances ....915
Financing Plan                                           16
Financial Projections                                    17
Revenue Sources ...... ..      ,                         18
Sewage Fee Rates ........................-.              18
Financial Covenants                                      19
Future Finances                                          21
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS                                               21
ANNEXES
1.   Existing Sewerage Facilities
2.   Description of the Project
3.   Project Cost Estimates
4.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5.   Projected Wastewater Flows 1976-2006
6.   City of Kuala Lumpur - Receipts and Expenditures for Public
Services 1968-1975
7.   City of Kuala Lumpur - Expenditures on Sewerage System 1968-1975
8-A.   Income Projections 1976-1985
8-B.   Water Consumption and Sewage Fee Projections 1976-1985
9.   Cash Flow Projections 1976-1985
10.   Balance Sheet Projections 1975-1985
11.   Assumptions for Financial Projections
12.   Forecast Performance Indicators and Dates for Project Monitoring
CHART
9862      City of Kuala Lumpur - Organization Chart of Engineering
Department and Sewerage and Drainage Division
(Prior to Establishment of Sewerage Department)
9863      City of Kuala Lumpur - Organization Chart of Sewerage Department
9864      Project Implementation Schedule
9865      Projection of Population and Selected Utility Characteristics
1970-1990
MAP
11643     Existing Sewerage System and Proposed Project



MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a project to improve and extend
sewage collection and treatment facilities in the Federal Territory, City of
Kuala Lumpur, for which a loan of US$21.5 million is proposed. The project
represents the first stage, covering the years 1976-1981, of a Master Plan
to extend sewerage facilities throughout the Federal Territory during the
30-year period ending in 2005.
ii.       The project is needed to improve standards of health and sanitation
within the Federal Territory, which is coextensive with the City of Kuala
Lumpur, the Federal capital of Malaysia. The City encompasses a heavily
populated urban area, whose population of approximately 780,000 is growing at
the rate of about 3.7% annually. Water consumption and liquid waste produc-
tion are, moreover, increasing at a much higher rate because of increases in
population served with water under Bank-financed water supply projects, in-
creasing individual consumption, and a high rate of industrial growth. The
City's existing sewerage system serves only about 25% of the present popula-
tion, confined largely to the central section of the City. Because of the
large and increasing water demand, the volumes and strengths of liquid wastes
in the areas to be served under the project are beyond the handling capacity
of the night soil collection systems or septic tanks upon which the City would
otherwise have to rely. The project will accelerate the extension of the
City's lateral and trunk sewers and treatment facilities which has been
underway on a modest scale since 1953. It would avoid the necessity of ex-
tending night soil collection and use of septic tanks and, with future
stages of the Master Plan, would result in phasing them out as additional
areas are sewered. As a result of the project, the population provided with
sewerage service would double from about 200,000 in 1975 to 400,000 in 1981,
and the percentage of the total population of the Federal Territory receiving
sewerage service would increase from the present 25% to about 45% in 1981.
iii.      The Government of Malaysia will be the borrower and the City of
Kuala Lumpur will be the beneficiary. A Sewerage Department (SD) has recently
been established as a separate Department of the City Administration to operate
the existing sewerage system, to carry out the project, and to operate the
expanded system upon completion. The proceeds of the loan will be relent
by Government to the City, on the same terms as those of the Bank loan, for
the exclusive use of SD in meeting project expenditures.
iv.       The project is estimated to cost about US$60.5 million (M$151.2
million), exclusive of interest during construction, of which about US$11.8
million or 20% is foreign exchange cost. The proposed loan of US$21.5 mil-
lion will cover about 36% of such total cost. The balance would be financed
by Government loans and from internal cash generation. All contracts will
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. Most of the



- ii -
equipment will be imported but the pipes are expected to be manufactured
locally using some imported raw materials. Local manufacturers will
receive a preference of 15% or the prevailing tariff, whichever is less.
v.        Revenues will be raised by SD sufficient to pay its operating
expenses and debt service and to produce a reasonable return on the value
of net fixed assets in service. The sources of revenues will be sewage
fees based on metered water consumption and the allocation to SD of a
portion of the City's property tax assessment. It is expected that over
the period of the project the direct user charge, represented by the sewage
fees, will become the major source of SD's income.
vi.       The project is the most practicable solution for collection,
treatment and disposal of sewage in the densely populated urban areas of
Kuala Lumpur.
vii.      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$21.5 million for
a term of 21 years including a grace period of six years.



MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Malaysia has requested a loan of US$21.5 million
to help finance a sewerage project for the Federal Territory, City of Kuala
Lumpur. The project will be carried out by the Sewerage Department (SD) of
the City of Kuala Lumpur, which has recently been established as a separate
Department of the City Administration. The project is estimated to cost
US$60.5 million equivalent.
1.02      The Bank has made loans to Government to assist in financing two
projects for water supply for Kuala Lumpur and the Klang Valley region of
the State of Selangor. The first project was carried out, and the second is
currently being carried out, by the Water Division of Selangor State Govern-
ment, which is responsible for water supply in Kuala Lumpur and the State of
Selangor. The projects are part of a long-term plan for water supply for
the region and involve the development of the Langat River in stages to meet
future needs. The loan for the first project was provided in August 1968
in the amount of US$3.6 million equivalent (Loan 561-MA) to cover the foreign
exchange costs of the first stage, which was completed in 1974. The loan
for the second project was provided in August 1973 in the amount of US$13.5
million (Loan 908-MA) to cover the foreign exchange cost of the second stage.
This project is now underway and is estimated to be completed in 1978. It
is expected to meet the increased water demands of the area, including
Kuala Lumpur, beyond the year 1980.
1.03      The proposed sewerage project is the first stage of a long-term
plan for the extension of the sewerage system in the Federal Territory and
adjacent areas in the State of Selangor. A Master Plan for sewerage and
sewage disposal for Kuala Lumpur and environs, covering the period to 2005,
was prepared in 1973-1975 with United Kingdom aid, by D. Balfour & Sons
(U.K.) in association with Malaysia International Consultants. This study
was supervised by Government's Ministry of Local Government and Environment,
and a Steering Committee consisting of officials of Government, the City and
the State of Selangor. The study has been reviewed by them and by the Bank
and forms the basis of the proposed project.
1.04      A pre-appraisal mission composed of Messrs. L. Rasmusson and
K.C. Smeltzer visited Malaysia in June-July 1974, and one comprising
Messrs. V. Rajagopalan and R. Saunders visited the country in December 1974.
These missions reviewed preliminarily matters relating to the scope of the
project, basic design criteria, institutions to carry out the project, and
economic considerations. It was decided by Government to confine the project
to the Federal Territory (as established in 1974) in which the major part of
the extensions in the first stage of the Master Plan were proposed. It was



- 2 -
also decided that the project and sewerage operations would be carried out
by a separate Sewerage Department of the City.
1.05      The project has been prepared by the consultants, Government and
the City. Appraisal of the project was carried out by a mission composed
of Messrs. K.C. Smeltzer and E.A. LaBahn who visited Malaysia in March 1975.
This appraisal report is based on information provided by the consultants'
study, Government and the City, and the mission's findings.
II. THE SECTOR
The Country and its Economy
2.01      Malaysia consists of the peninsula of Malaysia which lies between
Thailand and Singapore, and the States of Sarawak and Sabah on the island of
Borneo. The aggregate area of Malaysia is about 128,000 square miles; in
1974 it had a population of about 12.2 million growing at an annual rate of
2.7%. Kuala Lumpur is the country's capital and its largest and most densely
populated city; it has a population of about 780,000 (1975) and an area of
94 square miles. The estimated average monthly household income for Peninsular
Malaysia is about M$530 (US$212), about 40% below the average urban income
and 45% below the average of M$990 (US$395) for Kuala Lumpur.
2.02      With a per capita GNP of US$490 (1973), Malaysia is one of the
most prosperous developing countries in Southeast Asia.  Rates of growth of
GNP in constant market prices averaged about 6% annually over the past decade.
Agriculture still is the mainstay of the economy and employs over half the
labor force; however, its contribution to GDP in the last decade has declined
from about 40% to 33%. Conversely, manufacturing and mining have increased
in the past decade from less than 15% of GDP to 20%, providing employment to
over 11% of the labor force. Since much of industry has developed in the
region of Kuala Lumpur, the shift from agriculture to manufacturing is an
underlying factor in the inordinate growth of water supply and sewerage needs
in the capital city.
Sector Development
2.03      Over 50% of the population of Malaysia is served with piped water
supplies. In Peninsular Malaysia and in Sabah State, water systems generally
provide service on a regional basis rather than to just a single community.
These systems, which serve almost all urban areas and adjacent towns and
villages, have enabled rural communities to benefit from water systems they
otherwise would be unable to support. Metered deliveries generally are
provided to individual dwelling units, with public standposts representing a
relatively small proportion of the total number of connections. In Sarawak
State, where some 80% of the population live in small communities with poor
communications, water supply systems serve individual communities only.



2.04      The Revised Second Malaysia Plan (1971-75) included M$334 million
for water supply projects to meet the growing demands of principal urban
areas, to provide water supply facilities to settlers under Federal Land
Development Authority schemes, and to continue the process of providing
safe water supplies to an enlarged portion of the population by expanding
existing systems and adding new systems. Capital funding for water supply
projects has come from Government loans and budget allocations and, for the
more developed areas, from state and local sources.  International financing
has been used only for the larger projects: the two Bank loans for the Kuala
Lumpur Water Supply Projects (Loan 561-MA and 908-MA) and four Asian Develop-
ment Bank loans for water supply projects in both Peninsular and East Malaysia.
2.05      Few satisfactory sewerage systems exist in Malaysia.  According to
the 1970 Census, only 20.6% of the population were provided with flush
systems discharging either to communal or municipal sewers or, alternatively,
to individual disposal systems. Remaining populations were served by bucket
(night soil) collection, pit latrines or open drains. Of the urban areas
only the cities of Kuala Lumpur and Georgetown (Penang State) have sewers;
a total of 350,000 people, or 9% of the 1970 urban population of 3.7 million
persons benefited from this service. The Revised Second MalaysiaPPlan
allocated M$23 million to sewerage systems, or only 7% of the water supply
allocation. Wastewater flows are increasing with the increase in piped
water supply systems but facilities for collection, treatment and safe
disposal are not keeping pace. Because of this lag, a team of experts
under the IBRD/World Health Organization Cooperative Program will survey
the country in early 1976 with the objective of identifying constraints
and promoting development in the urban wastewater subsector.
2.06      Many of Malaysia's principal streams are polluted, although con-
ditions are mitigated by frequent and substantial rainfall. Domestic wastes
represent only part of the problem; land development, industry and mining
operations also are major contributors to water pollution. At present, water
pollution control is handled on an ad hoc basis with solutions attempted
only after a problem has arisen and been recognized as a nuisance or hazard.
Long-range planning and policies in this field have not been formulated,
though the Environmental Quality Act of 1974 is an important first step.
That Act provides general powers to control pollution of Malaysia's land,
air and water resources (para 2.09). The urban wastewater survey, (para
2.05) would also examine environmental, technical, institutional and finan-
cial problems associated with liquid waste.
2.07      The concept of beneficiaries paying for water service through an
adequate tariff is well-established in Malaysia, and water tariffs generally
are sufficient to meet operating costs and debt service and yield a small
surplus. Billing and collection procedures and results are generally good.
Expenses of sewerage service are met principally from general tax assess-
ments of local governments.
Sector Organization
2.08      The provision of water supplies is a function of the individual
state governments and is usually handled by the public works departments



- 4 -
(PWD) of the states. The Water Supply Branch of the Federal PWD provides
technical advice and support to the states but its role is limited because
of inadequate staff. The Rural Environmental Sanitation Program of the
Government, which covers water supply and waste disposal, is managed by the
Environmental Health Engineering Unit (EHE) of the Ministry of Health.
2.09      There are two principal organizations at the national level res-
ponsible for environmental sanitation and water pollution control. The
Department of the Environment (DOE) of the Ministry of Local Government and
Environment administers and enforces the Environmental Quality Act of 1974
and assists local agencies in sewerage, drainage, solid wastes and housing
activities. The EHE Unit of the Ministry of Health is responsible for
identifying urban sewerage, drainage and solid waste disposal needs, moni-
toring environmental quality, and providing technical support to DOE and
state water pollution control boards. EHE prompted formulation of the
Environmental Quality Act and promoted studies for sewerage in Kuala Lumpur
and eight other urban areas.
2.10      Water supply to Kuala Lumpur is provided by Selangor State which
encircles the City. The water system serves about one million persons in
the Federal Territory and State areas through 100,000 connections, all of
which are metered. Bank Loans 561-MA (1968) and 908-MA (1973) are helping
finance capital expansions of this system; when the current project is
complete, the system will serve about 1.5 million persons. The performance
of the water supply undertaking in operations and in project implementation
has been good. The State, through its Development Corporation, Public Works
Department and local town boards, administers some rudimentary wastewater
systems. But the major sewerage system in the region serves and is owned
by the City of Kuala Lumpur (which administers local services in the Federal
Territory with which it is coextensive) and is operated by its Engineering
Department (Chart 9862 and paras 5.03-5.04).
2.11      The City's sanitary sewerage system dates back to 1953 and provides
service to approximately 200,000 persons or about 25% of the population. It
serves the central city and two smaller outlying areas. Facilities consist
of about 80 miles of sewers, a raw sewage lift station, three treatment
plants and gravity outfalls to the Klang river system. In addition the City
provides service to about 5,000 persons in low income areas adjacent to
the Federal Territory through small communal facilities. The remaining
population is served by septic tanks, privies and night soil systems. The
Engineering Department has done a good job in operating and maintaining the
system and is competent in carrying out minor improvements. But due to
inadequate staffing it must rely upon engineering consultants to plan, design
and supervise the construction of major projects. Because of limited
revenues and inadequate capital funding, the City has not expanded its
sewerage system to match the rate of urban development.
2.12      The consulting association of D. Balfour & Sons (U.K.) and Malaysia
International Consultants completed in 1975 a sewerage Master Plan financed
by the United Kingdom that identifies a staged program of sewerage develop-
ment through the year 2005 to meet the needs of Kuala Lumpur and environs.
The study area included the Federal Territory plus adjacent portions of



Selangor State (map 11643). The Master Plan recognized that a single sewer-
age authority ultimately should have jurisdiction over the study area. Be-
cause of possible administrative and political difficulties it was decided
that the City and the various State agencies should continue to provide
sewerage service within their respective boundaries, though a regional
sewerage authority remains an objective. The project, which consists of
the first stage (1976-1981) of the Master Plan, provides service only to
the Federal Territory.  It would be carried out by a newly created Sewerage
Department of the City (Chart 9863; paras 5.05-5.08).
III.  THE PROJECT
3.01      The project is the first stage of a long-range sewerage develop-
ment plan for Kuala Lumpur and environs. It consists of the expansion and
modification of the City's existing municipal sanitary sewerage system.
Construction is scheduled for the period 1976-1980. Details of existing
sewerage facilities are described in Annex 1.
Project Description
3.02      In addition to expanding facilities in the existing sewerage zone,
the project would provide service to three newly created zones. The work
consists of:
(i) about 52 miles of lateral sewers varying in size from
9 to 15 inches;
(ii) about 16 miles of trunk sewers ranging in size from
15 to 60 inches;
(iii) improvements to an existing sewage treatment plant;
(iv) construction of four new pumping stations; and
(v) construction of three new sewage treatment facilities.
The treatment units, consisting of sewage lagoons, can be readily and in-
expensively upgraded to handle future increases in biologic and hydraulic
loading resulting from population and industrial growth. A detailed
description of the project is included as Annex 2, and the locations of
proposed project works and service areas are shown on Map 11643. An addi-
tional 15 miles of lateral sewers would be added to the City's system by
housing developers and these are not included in the project.
Cost Estimates
3.03      The estimated costs of the project are detailed in Annex 3 and
are summarized below.



-6-
M$ Million                 US$ Million
Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total
Sewers                        35.6      7.2    42.8       14.2      2.9    17.1
Pumping Plant                   5.1     3.6      8.7       2.0      1.4     3.4
Treatment Plant                17.2     6.0    23.2        6.9      2.4     9.3
General Plant                    -      0.5     0.5         -       0.2     0.2
Land                          22.4       -     22.4        9.0       -      9.0
Subtotal      80.3    17.3    97.6        32.1      6.9    39.0
Consulting Services            4.9      1.3      6.2       2.0      0.5     2.5
Contingencies
Physical                  6.2      1.9     8.1        2.5     0.8      3.3
Price                    30.3      9.0    39.3       12.1     3.6    15.7
TOTAL         121.7    29.5   151.2       48.7    11.8    60.5
3.04      Cost estimates were prepared on the basis of estimates by the
consultants and are reasonable. Construction costs are based upon preliminary
design of the project and upon recent tenders awarded for materials, equip-
ment and civil works of similar projects in Malaysia and Singapore.  Con-
sulting services include engineering and management as described in paras
3.08, 3.10 and 5.10. An overall provision of 10% on all items excluding
land (para 3.06) has been added to the basic cost (January 1976) for physical
contingencies and is considered adequate. Price contingency allowances
applied to the January 1976 base prices are: for 1976 14% for civil works
and 10% for equipment; for 1977-1979 12% and 8%, respectively and for 1980
10% and 7%.
3.05      The cost estimates do not include duties and taxes since Govern-
ment has indicated that these will be waived for the project. The foreign
exchange component has been estimated on the assumption that most mechanical
and electrical equipment and certain items of general plant will be imported
and the construction contracts and most pipe supply contracts will be won by
local firms. This has occurred under earlier sewerage projects and Selangor
State water supply projects.
Land
3.06      In the estimates it is assumed that land not owned by Government
will be acquired at market value and Government land will be acquired with-
out cost.  No price contingency was applied to land costs because steps are
currently being taken to acquire it. Agreement was reached and a covenant
included in the draft legal documents that Government land will be provided
to SD at no more than nominal cost and that Government will ensure the prompt
acquisition or holding by right of temporary occupancy of other land required
for the project.
Amount of Proposed Loan
3.07      A Bank loan of US$21.5 million is proposed to finance approximately
36% of the total project costs of US$60.5 million. The amount of the loan
computed on this basis would be sufficient to cover the estimated foreign



-7-
exchange component (i.e., 20% of the total cost) and 20% of the local costs.
The balance of the project costs would be financed by the Government and
SD's internal resources.
Design and Construction Supervision
3.08      SD will be responsible for carrying out the project.  It will
retain consultants in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the Uses of
Consultants to provide engineering services for detailed design, preparation
of tender documents, evaluation of tenders and supervision of construction.
In order to expedite the work, SD is considering retaining more than one
engineering consultant and may, depending upon its ability to increase its
own staff, do some sewer design in-house. Because of uncertainty on how
much design will be done by SD, the number of man-months of engineering
consulting services is tentatively estimated to be 400. Assurances have
been obtained that SD will engage engineering consultants satisfactory to the
Bank for design and construction supervision (except work designed by SD
staff with prior Bank approval) and that the designs will be acceptable to
the Bank. The City intends to engage consultants in early 1976, and should
that schedule be maintained, it is likely that up to US$70,000 will have been
expended on the project for engineering and management consultants' services
before the proposed Bank loan is signed. Retroactive financing for the cost
of these services not to exceed the amount of US$30,000 is proposed (i.e.,
42% of the cost, see para 3.12).
3.09      Because the boundaries of the sewerage zones are determined by topo-
graphy, two of the four sewerage zones covered by the project (Zones 3B and 6)
contain areas within both the Federal Territory and the State of Selangor.
Although all of the facilities to be built under the project (with the except-
ion of one treatment plant) lie within the Federal Territory, it is desirable
to size sewers and force mains with sufficient capacity to serve adjacent
state areas. Accordingly, agreement was reached with Government and a cove-
nant included in the draft legal documents that all facilities within the
Federal Territory will be designed to receive sewage flows from adjacent
State areas and that the resulting additional costs will be borne by the
State at the time the expenditure is incurred.
Management Consultants and Training
3.10      Management consultants will be retained to assist SD principally
in establishing and installing a commercial accounting system (paras 3.08
and 5.10). About 16 man-months of management consulting services are
envisioned.
Procurement
3.11      The schedule for design, procurement and construction of the pro-
ject is shown in Chart 9864. Engineering work has been assumed to begin in
early 1976, in which case all project facilities should be commissioned by
June 30, 1981. All construction and supply contracts will be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. Local contractors are expected to win all construction contracts,
and local manufacturers are expected to furnish most, if not all, of the sewer



- 8 -
pipe required in the project. Major mechanical and electrical equipment
required for the pumping plant and treatment plant are not manufactured
locally and will be procured from abroad. A margin of preference to local
manufacturers of 15% or the custom duty, whichever is less, is proposed to be
allowed. There are no preferential tariffs applicable to goods likely to be
imported for this project.
Disbursement
3.12      The loan of US$21.5 million would comprise about 36% of the cost
of the project. This is equivalent to 42% of the project's cost excluding
land. Accordingly, it is proposed that the loan be disbursed by the Bank
in the amount of 42% of all project expenditures, excluding land, up to
the loan total of US$21.5 million.
3.13      In the event that the 42% of project expenditures, excluding land,
totals less than the amount of the loan, the unused balance would be dis-
bursed against continued expansion of the sewerage system within the Federal
Territory subject, however, to adequate justification (para 3.17).
Closing Date
3.14      The Closing Date for the proposed loan would be December 31, 1981
which allows a margin of about twelve months after the estimated completion
of the works. This margin is considered appropriate to accommodate the
final payments on contracts and some slippage of the project.
Environmental Aspects
3.15      By extending sewer service to populations now relying upon night-
soil collection and sullage drains, the project will reduce health hazards
and improve aesthetics of the urban environment. The project will also help
to keep organic pollution of the Klang River and its tributaries from exceed-
ing present levels despite steadily increasing quantities of domestic and
industrial wastes. Although downstream use of the Klang as a water source
is limited, the project would reduce downstream water treatment problems
and costs, and improve the overall aesthetics of the river and the recipient
marine environment.
3.16      Pollution by industry, housing development and mining operations,
both within and outside of the Federal Territory, is a continuing problem
in the Klang Valley. Present pollution control laws appear to be adequate
but enforcement practices must be strengthened. In order to promote equit-
able and economic use of the project facilities and the surface waters which
will receive the treated wastes, assurances were obtained and are included
in the draft legal documents that Government would prepare by July 1, 1977,
a program for the implementation of existing pollution control legislation as
it relates to the quality of surface and ground waters in the Klang Valley.
Government is considering making a request to the United Nations Development
Programme for technical assistance on environmental protection measures; the
Bank has assisted in outlining a draft project document.



-9.-
Future Development
3.17      A program that would provide for continued expansion of sewerage
systems within the Federal Territory and also provide for the extension of
public sewers to adjacent developed areas of Selangor State has been identi-
fied by the consultants as part of the sewerage Master Plan for Kuala Lumpur
and environs. Construction of Stage 2 facilities is planned for the period
1981-1985 and later improvements for the period 1986-2005. Principal facil-
ities proposed as part of these future projects are shown on map 11643.
Other Issues
3.18      Regional sewerage systems, preferably managed and operated by a
single agency, would permit more effective control of the Klang Valley's
water resources. The single regional agency concept should therefore be a
goal of Government. However, because of the complexity of the institutional
and financial problems associated with forming a single agency, it is intended
that sewerage planning and project implementation will, at least in the near
term, be done by the City and by a Selangor State agency, each for its own
area of jurisdiction. To help ensure the compatibility of construction
programs and the uniformity of pollution abatement measures, an intra-govern-
mental coordinating committee comprising sewerage and pollution control
agencies has been established by Government, and assurances were obtained
and recorded in the draft legal documents that Government would use its
best efforts to cause the State of Selangor to designate or create an
agency responsible for sewerage in the State by July 1, 1977.
3.19      Although investments in excess of M$200 million are proposed by
various Governmental agencies in the near term for sewerage, drainage,
roads and transport in the Kuala Lumpur area, spatial development planning
is incomplete and zoning regulations are only partly enforced. Significant
change in land use from that assumed in planning the project could result
in premature obsolescence of project facilities and unanticipated future
expense for replacement or supplementation. Land issues are being examined
for Government and the City by a consultant and it is expected that this
work will result in recommendations for a program of institutional, legis-
lative, fiscal and planning measures. Assurances therefore were obtained
from Government and incorporated in the draft legal documents that:
(i) a task force will be established and staffed with specialists
by July 1, 1976 to carry out development policy analysis,
broad spatial planning, capital programming and project
reviews within the Federal Territory;
(ii)  a detailed two-year work program for the task force
will be prepared by September 1, 1976;
(iii) recommendations will be prepared for an institutional
framework and processes to carry out, over the longer
term, the work of the task force described in (i) above;
(iv)  a ten-year spatial development plan and five-year capital
budget will be prepared for the area under the City's jur-
isdiction by January 1, 1978; and



- 10 -
(v) Government will use its best efforts to have the State of
Selangor formulate and adopt by January 1, 1978 such a
spatial development plan for areas adjacent to the
Federal territory as will permit efficient infrastruc-
ture planning.
3.20      It is anticipated that up to 600 families would have to be re-
settled from lands required for sewerage purposes under the Master Plan.
Provision has been made under the Second Urban Transportation Project to
provide financial and technical assistance to develop sites and services,
and possibly some housing, for displaced families. Assurances were obtained
and are included in the loan documents that FT will relocate persons occupy-
ing land, either as squatters or owners, in a socially acceptable manner
and in adequate time to avoid hindrance to the project.
3.21      The project is not specifically designed to serve one class of
consumer or income group in preference to another. In fact the spatial
nature of sewerage systems makes such design difficult and costly, parti-
cularly in cities such as Kuala Lumpur, where various income classes are
dispersed throughout the urban area. Nevertheless there is a financial
bias favoring the poor because a part of sewerage revenues are derived
from the property tax (para 6.09).
IV. JUSTIFICATION
4.01      The population of Kuala Lumpur, currently 780,000, is growing at
a rate of 3.7% annually or 1.4 times the national growth rate of 2.7%.
Water consumption and liquid waste production are increasing at about
double the population rate because a greater proportion of the population
is being served, individual consumption is growing, and industrial output
is expanding at about 10% annually. Water production capacity for the
Kuala Lumpur region is being enlarged under two Bank-financed water supply
projects (Loans 561-MA and 908-MA) to meet water supply needs through 1981.
Because of the large, economically justified water demand, the volumes of
liquid waste in the areas to be served under the project have reached
levels which are clearly beyond the handling capacity of rudimentary septic
tank or night soil systems. In the appraisal reports for the water supply
projects, attention was drawn to the sewage problem and the steps being
taken for its solution. Those steps led to the formulation of the project
which is the subject of this appraisal report.
4.02      The sewerage project is a logical continuation of the M$50 million
(1975 prices) sewerage construction program undertaken by the City and finan-
ced by Government since 1953. It represents the least cost piped sewage
collection and disposal system for the areas to be served and would (i)
maximize the use of the existing system; (ii) reduce dependency upon night
soil collection and septic tanks in developed areas; (iii) eliminate the
need for owner constructed septic tanks and other disposal methods in areas
presently under development; and (iv) help to stabilize the level of pollu-
tion in receiving water-courses through simple, effective sewage treatment
processes.



- 11 -
4.03      Measurable benefits of sewerage projects are difficult to quantify
because the supporting assumptions are necessarily speculative, hence the
justification for this project is essentially qualitative. Wevertheless,
it is known that the project will effect cost savings in terms of (i) re-
duced expenditures for construction and maintenance of septic tanks and
for night soil collection; and (ii) reduced medical costs and reduced loss
of income due to sickness related to poor sanitary facilities.
4.04      Furthermore, the impact on aesthetics and consumer convenience
is far superior to the alternative of septic tanks. Thus, in additon to
the benefits resulting from cost savings, the project has non-measurable
"quality of life" benefits - for example, odors and insect nuisances
would be reduced, septic tank problems would diminish, and sewage would
be eliminated from many roadside drainage channels.
4.05      Benefits will also arise from the development of a satisfactory
institution to operate the facilities provided by the project and to carry
out its objectives. The introduction of operating and management systems,
training of staff at all levels in good sewerage public utility practice,
and the creation of an organization with the necessary power and authority
to control these activities are all part of this institution building.
4.06      Revenues for sewerage service will be derived from a six of real
property taxation and user charges based upon metered water consumption
(herein called the sewage fee). At present all sewerage service revenues
come from taxation; the sewage fee will be introduced in 1976 as an adjunct
to the project. About 40% of total revenues in 1976 will be from the
sewage fee (with almost 60% from real property taxation); the sewage fee
proportion will gradually rise to about 77% in 1985. Since connection to
the sewerage system and payment of the sewage fee will be compulsory, the
fee is not a measure of willingness to pay. As such, it cannot be credited
with guaranteeing the efficient allocation of resources nor can it be used
as a measure of economic returns. However, since the price for water roughly
reflects its economic cost (the internal financial rate of return of the
current water supply project is about 8.6X), the addition of the sewage
fee to the water tariff is believed to result in a combined charge suffi-
cient to curb wasteful water consumption and thereby increase the likelihood
that the sewerage system would be used efficiently.
V. THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARY
The Borrower
5.01      The Government of Malaysia will be the borrower and will relend
the proceeds of the Bank loan to the City of Kuala Lumpur on the same terms
as those of the Bank loan (para 6.05).



- 12 -
The Beneficiary
5.02      The Sewerage Department (SD) of the City of Kuala Lumpur, the
beneficiary, will implement the project and operate the sewerage system.
The City, as the local government administration headed by the Mayor,
provides public services in the Federal Territory under the general direc-
tion of the Ministry of Local Government and Environment, which is respon-
sible for the Federal Territory.  The proceeds of the Bank loan, together
with the proceeds of additional loans to be made by Government to the City
from its own funds, will be applied through SD exclusively to expenditures
on the project.
Organization and Management
5.03      Sewerage and related sanitary services in Kuala Lumpur have in
the past been provided by the City Engineer's Department and the Urban
Services Department of the City administration. The City Engineer's
Department (Chart 9862), in addition to other responsibilities, has dealt
with sewerage, drainage and the servicing of septic tanks. Night soil
disposed of at the system's sewage treatment plant is collected by the
Urban Services Department, which will continue to perform this function
as part of its refuse collection service.
5.04      While the City has had considerable experience over the past
twenty years in operating a sewerage system, its goal of extending the
system to serve the entire City has been constrained. There have been
shortages of funds for extension of the sewerage system, as well as pro-
blems of staffing primarily because of shortages of available engineers
and technicians. The City Engineer's staff, consisting of about 96 em-
ployees devoted to sewerage operations and including three engineers, two
chemists, and three technicians, has been insufficient in number to do
more than maintain the existing system and design small reticulation schemes.
A considerable portion of the staff's time is devoted to checking the plans
of developers for adherence to regulations and the issuance of permits.
While the City contracts construction work, it has insufficient staff to
supervise the work adequately. Despite these constraints, the City's exist-
ing sewerage service can form the nucleus of an organization designed to
meet the needs of the project and the operation of an extended system.
5.05      A restructured SD separate from other departments of the City
administration will assume responsibility for all aspects of sewerage
design, construction and operation within the Federal Territory. The
organizational structure and functions are shown in Chart 9863.
5.06      The principal responsibilities of SD in respect of the Federal
Territory will be (a) participation in the planning of urban development
as related to sewerage facilities; (b) development of sewerage projects
for financing and construction; (c) design of sewerage systems by depart-
mental staff or consultants; (d) construction of sewerage systems by force
account or contract; (e) operation and maintenance of the sewerage systems;
and (f) the administration of matters relating to effluent disposal, includ-
ing the control of industrial wastewaters, the servicing of septic tanks,



- 13 -
and the disposal of night soil. The effectiveness of operations will be
subject to appropriate external checks by other Government organizations
concerned with environmental and health matters, i.e., the Ministry of
Health with respect to the adequacy of arrangement for sewage disposal; the
Department of Mines and the Factories and Machineries Department concerning
control of industrial wastewaters; and DOE and the Drainage and Irrigation
Division on standards for discharges into watercourses.
5.07      SD will be under the general direction of the Mayor, who will be
assisted by the City's Director General and the Chief Engineer of SD in form-
ulating the general policies for development and operation of SD. The Mayor
has appointed the Chief Engineer who, as the head of SD, will be responsible
for recommending and implementing policies and for day-to-day control of
operations. He will be assisted by the principal officers of SD, consisting
of the Deputy Chief Engineer and the heads of the Divisions listed with
their proposed functions in the organization chart (9863). The staffing
plan for SD (Annex 2, Table 1), formulated in the course of project prepara-
tion, shows the types and estimated annual numbers of staff for these Divi-
sions from the inception of SD through 1980 and is satisfactory. This plan
is intended as a guide and will be subject to review in the course of proj-
ect implementation. During negotiations, City representatives gave the
Bank a satisfactory list of qualifications for the posts of Chief Engineer
and Senior Accountant and a satisfactory timetable for the appointment of
staff.
5.08      The sewerage operations of the City have been carried out by units
which have had other functions as well. Changes will be needed to concentrate
the sewerage service in a single department. These will include the selec-
tion or recruitment at an early stage of qualified technical and financial
personnel, particularly at management levels, to operate an extended sewerage
system and to undertake the responsibilities of project work. Agreement was
reached and is incorporated in the draft legal documents that: (i) the sepa-
rate SD will function along the lines proposed in paras 5.05-5.07; (ii) the
functions of SD will be restricted to sewerage unless the Bank otherwise
agrees (the Bank has accepted that SD would do a small amount of drainage
work until a separate drainage unit is established in about two years time);
(iii) SD will be staffed at all times with qualified persons adequate to
meet the needs of the project and operations; (iv) future appointments to the
post of Chief Engineer will be made in consultation with the Bank; and (v)
Government and the City, in consultation with the Bank, will formulate and
initiate a training program for staff not later than January 1, 1977.
Accounting and Finance
5.09      In the past, accounts for sewerage services provided by the City
Departments have not been maintained separately from the City's general
accounts, and these are on a cash receipts and disbursements basis customary
in government operations. Revenue to finance services has been raised largely
by City tax assessments on property (Annex 6). While most direct expenditures



- 14 -
can be identified by separate services or departments, the latter do not
function as individual accounting units. Agreement was reached and provision
included in the draft legal documents that SD will function as a self-account-
ing department with its own commercial accounting system and separate bank
account into which its revenues will be deposited and from which its expend-
itures will be paid. This will permit the preparation of separate financial
statements for SD and will provide the basis for effective evaluation and
sound financial planning and management.
5.10      The City Treasurer's Department would provide the bookkeeping
services required to maintain the accounts of SD, since the City has the
necessary staff and facilities for this work and can provide these services
economically. However, SD would have an Accounting Division headed by the
Senior Accountant who would see that the basic accounting records were main-
tained for SD in a manner compatible with its commercial accounting system
and would prepare SD's financial statements and other information needed for
financial planning. The public utility accounting and budgeting system
would be developed for SD by management consultants, who would assist SD
in installing the system; in preparing opening financial statements on a
commercial accounting basis; and in valuing and classifying in approximate
amounts the fixed assets for the opening balance sheet. The draft terms
of reference for management assistance is satisfactory to the Bank, and the
contract for the management consultants is expected to be signed by March
1976.
Billing and Collection
5.11      Unlike the existing sewerage service, SD will not be dependent
solely on allocations of City tax revenues to meet its expenses. It will
raise revenues for a substantial part of its annual expenditures through
sewage fees on the metered water consumption of users connected to the
sewerage system.
5.12      The billing and collection of sewage fees will be done for SD by
the Water Division (WD) of Selangor State Government. WD will include the
sewage charges in combined bi-monthly water and sewerage bills for those
customers connected to the sewerage system and will collect and remit the
proceeds to SD. It will deduct a fee for its service presently estimated
at 1% of the billings, subject to agreement between Government and the
State.
5.13      The existing staff and facilities of WD are adequate for the
sewerage billing and collection. An interdepartmental comuittee for the
project has found the arrangement to be acceptable. It will be necessary
to amend the Water Supply By-Laws to require joint payment of charges and
to empower the cut-off of water supply in the event of non-payment of any
of the charges. Assurances were obtained and are included in the draft
legal documents and supplemental letter that the necessary authorizations,
including joint billing, will be secured and that appropriate steps will
be taken to enforce the payment of billings until the authorizations are



- 15 -
effective. WD has an effective billing and collection system for water
supply, and uncollectible accounts have been insignificant. The proposed
arrangement is satisfactory.
Audit
5.14      The Auditor General of Malaysia conducts independent external audits
of government units. It audits the account of the City and of WD to assure
compliance with Government requirements and also to review WD's commercial
accounts and financial statements under generally accepted accounting
standards. The quality of the audits is satisfactory and audit of the
accounts of SD by the Auditor General would be acceptable. Assurances
were obtained and are included in the draft legal documents that the accounts
of SD for each fiscal year will be audited by the Auditor General of Malaysia
or another independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, and that the auditor's
report and financial statements will be sent to the Bank not later than nine
months after the end of the fiscal year.
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Record of Finances
6.01      Analysis of finances of the City's past sewerage operations does
not serve as a meaningful guide to future performance. Revenues to pay
for public services have been raised by the City primarily through general
tax assessments on property (Annex 6). Expenditures for past sewerage
services are for the most part identifiable from City accounts (Annex 7).
However, they are confined largely to costs of maintaining a system much
more limited than is proposed and of limited design work on small reticula-
tion schemes.
6.02      In the absence of accounts for fixed assets in the City's system,
the original cost of existing fixed assets for SD was estimated by con-
sultants from records of the City's capital expenditures on sewerage works;
accumulated depreciation of such assets was estimated on the basis of the
age and expected service lives of the properties. For purposes of the
projections, the gross fixed assets and accumulated depreciation were re-
valued by the appraisal mission for the opening balance sheet at December 31,
1975 by increasing the figures based on cost by the percentage changes in
the Consumer Price Index for West Malaysia from the time the expenditures
for the properties were made. By the time the project is completed, the
existing fixed assets will account for only about 25% of the total fixed
assets. A more accurate revaluation and a classification of SD's existing
fixed assets will be made by the management consultants (para 5.10). Most
of the fixed assets were financed by Government loans. In the opening
balance sheet, the estimated value of net fixed assets and materials in-
ventory, less the balance of loans previously made by Government to the
City for the construction of sewerage facilities, is the initial amount
of City contributed capital.



- 16 -
Financing Plan
6.03      Financial projections and assumptions for the years 1976-1985 are
in Annexes 8-11, which include the projections of annual cash flow in
Annex 9. This shows the financing plan for the project period 1976-1981,
which is sumnarized below:
Financing Plan 1976-81
US$
Equivalent  Percent
-- millions-
Applications of Funds
Capital Expenditures:
Project                                     151.0 /a      60.4        72.2
Stage 2                                      30.0          12.0       14.3
Other Capital Works /b                        0.8           0.3        0.4
Interest During Construction                22.9           9.2        11.0
Total                                 204.7          81.9        97.9
Working Capital                                    4.3           1.7         2.1
Total Applications                    209.0          83.6       100.0
Sources of Funds
Borrowings:
IBRD Loan                                   53.8          21.5        25.7
Government Loan                              87.6          35.1       41.9
Stage 2                                      26.3          10.5       12.6
Total Borrowings                      167.7          67.1        80.2
City Contribution /b                               0.8           0.3         0.4
Internal Cash Generation                          62.6          25.0        30.0
Less Debt Service (Excluding
Interest During Construction)                22.1           8.8       10.6
Net Cash Generation Applied
to Sewerage Program                          40.5          16.2       19.4
Total Sources                         209.0          83.6       100.0
/a Excludes M$0.2 million management consulting fees to be charged to
operations.
/b   For completion of trunk sewers in 1976 from funds provided by the City.



- 17 -
6.04      The proposed Bank Loan of US$21.5 million equivalent would cover
about 26% of the total funds required for SD's development program for 1976-
1981, Government loans would provide about 42%, and self-generated funds
would cover approximately 19%. The balance of about 13% would be provided
for the commencement of Stage 2 construction in 1981 by loans which it is
assumed will be committed for that purpose in the latter part of the project
construction period. It is anticipated under the Master Plan (paras 1.03
and 3.17) that Stage 2 will be coordinated with the project construction so
as to provide a continuous program of extension of the sewerage system. How-
ever, the projections indicate that should the start of Stage 2 be delayed
beyond 1981, the financing plan shown in para 6.03 would not be adversely
affected. The proposed financing plan is satisfactory.
6.05      The proposed Bank loan would be repayable over a period of 15 years
after a six-year period of grace. The assumed interest rate is 8-1/2%. The
proceeds would be relent by Government to the City on the same terms as those
of the Bank loan, and this is acceptable.
6.06      Government loans would be made to the City in the additional
amounts needed to finance the project, less such amounts as SD is able to
generate for construction purposes. These Government loans would be at 6%
interest and repayable over 30 years after a six-year grace period. Assur-
ances were obtained and are included in the draft legal documents that Gov-
ernment will make funds available to the City sufficient to provide SD with
the amounts, as needed, to meet the capital costs of the project until its
completion, other than the amounts provided by the Bank loan and amounts
generated internally by SD for construction. Agreement was reached and is
recorded in a draft supplemental letter on the terms of relending of the
Bank loan proceeds and the lending terms for the Government financing. A
relending agreement acceptable to the Bank is a condition of Loan effective-
ness.
6.07      SD's cash account from its establishment as a separate department
(para 5.09) should be maintained at a level adequate to meet its capital and
operating costs. Assurances were obtained and are contained in the draft
legal documents that until the cash account becomes self-sustaining from
SD's own internal cash generation, adequate working capital will be provided
by Government from its proposed loan. The total amount of Government loans
for the project will not be increased by this provision of working capital,
since all surplus internal cash generation of SD will be applied to the
construction program.
Financial Projections
6.08      Projections of annual income and cash flow for the years 1976-1985
are in Annexes 8A and 9, respectively. Annex 8-B supplements the income
projections with annual figures for 1976-1985 on water consumption and
sewage fee revenue. Projected balance sheets for the year-ends 1975-1985
are in Annex 10. The assumptions for the financial projections are in
Annex 11.



- 18 -
Revenue Sources
6.09      The projections have been prepared on the assumption that the
revenues of SD will be derived from two principal sources: (i) the allo-
cation to SD by the City of a portion of the Federal Territory area tax
averaging each year at least 2% of annual value of property whether sewered
or not, and (ii) a sewage fee to be charged on metered water consumption
in sewered areas. 1/  Government favors such an approach, and agreement was
reached on these sources of revenues (para 6.16).
6.10      The sewage fee, together with the area tax assessment, will pro-
duce revenues at least sufficient to cover SD's operating expenses and
debt service. The projections assume that net cash generation will cover
debt service at least 1.2 times and will provide some funds for the con-
struction program. As shown in Annex 8-B, the projected sewage fee rates
would average M$0.60 per 1,000 Ig of water consumed in each of the years
1976-1978, M$1.10 in 1979 and 1980, and would increase thereafter to M$1.30
in 1981 and M$1.50 in 1982 and subsequent years when full debt service on
the project loans is payable.
6.11      The revenue projections indicate that the area tax assessment of
2% of annual value, as estimated by the City on the basis of its recent
revaluation of properties, would be about M$4.8 million in 1976 and would
increase gradually to about M$5.7 million in 1980 and M$7.5 million in 1985
as new properties are added. In comparison, the estimated revenue provided
by the sewage fees, while lower than the tax revenue in the beginning, would
increase more rapidly than the tax assessment, primarily because of increases
in customers and in rates charged. The estimated sewage fee revenue starts
in 1976 at about M$3.5 million or 40% of total revenue, increases to about
M$11.5 million or 65% of total revenue in 1980, and to M$27 million or 77%
in 1985. Thus, direct user charges would become the principal means of
payment for sewerage service.
Sewage Fee Rates
6.12      In selecting the sewage fee as the principal revenue source, Gov-
ernment recognized that much of the operation and maintainance cost of the
sewerage system is a function of the volume of water consumed. Proportion-
ing sewerage charges to water use at the individual properties is an equit-
able basis for charging and is particularly appropriate in the Federal
Territory where all water use is metered.  With the engagement of WD of
Selangor State for billing and collection, this method of charging can
easily be implemented (paras 5.12-5.13).
6.13      WD presently charges M$1.20 per 1,000 Ig for water supply to
domestic consumers and M$1.70-2.00 to commercial and industrial users.
Based on existing water rates, the initial average sewerage charge of
1/   Area tax refers to the general property tax based primarily on the annual
rental value of the property (Annex 6, para 2). The 2% of annual value
represents about one-sixth of the total annual tax.



- 19 -
M$0.60 per 1,000 Ig of water would thus increase the rates for domestic
customers connected to the sewerage system by about 50S, or by a smaller
percentage if domestic customers will be charged sewage fees below those
of commercial and industrial users. (This may be done for income distribu-
tion purposes and because the costs of serving commerce and industry may
be greater than the cost of serving households.) The bills of households
which adopt flush toilets where sewers are available will increase in
greater proportion than the percentage increase in rates because of in-
creased water use. However, taking increased water use into account, the
sewerage charges are considered to be within the ability of customers to
pay, as the average combined domestic billings for water and sewerage would
approximate 2% of average household income. 1/ If the area tax assess-
ment is also taken into account, it would on the average increase the cost
by less than 1/2 of 1% of average household income; this percentage would
vary among households depending upon the annual value of the householder's
property on which the tax is based. 2/
6.14      The projected increases in the average sewage fee rate over the
period 1976-1982 (para 6.10) are required primarily to compensate for the
effect on capital and operating costs of allowances made for price contin-
gencies (para 3.04; Annex 11, paras 5-8). These allowances are necessary
to lessen the possibility of unanticipated cost overruns and consequent
underfinancing of the project. If constant prices were assumed, i.e., the
continuation of January 1976 price levels, the projected average sewage
fee rates would continue at about M$0.60 through 1981 and would increase to
about M$0.90 in 1982 when full debt service is payable on the project loans.
In making prudent allowance for future price increases in project and operat-
ing costs, it should be recognized that to the degree they materialize,
general wage levels are also likely to increase so that the ability of
customers to pay the higher rates required to compensate would be correspond-
ingly maintained.
Financial Covenants
6.15      Government has decided that while the area tax assessment and
sewerage charges would be set at levels at least sufficient to cover
operating expenses and debt service, it will work toward charges which
will also produce a reasonable return on capital invested. The financing
plan in itself, in requiring the generation of sufficient funds to cover
debt service on a capital structure consisting principally of loans, will
give some assurance that an acceptable rate of return for a sewerage opera-
tion will be achieved. The projections show for 1982, when full debt ser-
vice is payable on the loans, that with a debt service coverage of 1.2 times,
the rate of return on fixed assets would be about 8% (Annexes 8-A and 9).
1/   Income figures are based on Draft of Final Report, Urban Transport Policy
and Planning Study for Metropolitan Kuala Lumpur, by Wilbur Smith and
Associates, et. al., 1974.
2/   The tax impact would be indirect on householders renting their dwellings.



- 20 -
This rate of return does not reflect any revaluation of fixed assets for
possible future increases in price levels from the time of construction
(or from 1975 in the case of existing fixed assets), whereas the rates of
return in the covenants referred to in para 6.16 will be calculated on the
basis of fixed assets valued or revalued in accordance with sound methods
of valuation acceptable to the Bank.
6.16      In order to assure the objectives of a sound financial structure
and a reasonable return, it was agreed and provided in the draft legal
documents that Government and the City will maintain for the exclusive use
of SD an area tax assessment and sewerage charges that will provide net
internal cash generation sufficient to cover annual debt service at least
1.2 times, and that will, commencing not later than January 1, 1979, produce
a reasonable annual return on the value of net fixed assets in service. It
was also agreed that Government and the City will complete a study, in
consultation with the Bank, before the end of 1978 to determine the appropri-
ate rate of return and any further revision of such assessment or sewerage
charges required to achieve it. The annual rate of return should in any
event, be not less than 7%. Finally, it was agreed that the initial area
tax assessment will average at least 2% of annual value, and the initial
sewerage charges will average at least M$0.60 per 1,000 Ig of water consumed.
The tax assessment and sewerage charges have accrued to the benefit of SD
from January 1, 1976.
6.17      The covenants in para 6.16 will assure that a reasonable margin
of coverage will be provided for debt service to preserve the financial
viability of SD. They will also provide some internal cash generation
which will be devoted to payment of a share of project costs so as to
reduce the amount of Government loans which would otherwise be required.
They will give Government and the City a period of transition from the
present situation of reliance solely on general tax assessments to
determine, in the light of actual experience, the specific long-term rate
policies which should be followed.
6.18      The sewera-e charge referred to in para 6.16 is an average for
all customers, and tne tax assessment rate is the overall rate applicable
to the annual value of properties assessed. Government and the City will
decide whether there Will ie differences ir. the sewerage charges among
various classes of customers and whether the tax rate will be varied among
properties assessed (para 6.13). The sewerage charges or tax rates can be
varied, in accordance with these decisions, as long as the average sewerage
charge and the overall tax rate specified are maintained.
6.19      To ensure that delays in the making of connections or in the
levying of sewerage charges would not occur, regulations have been instituted
which provide that whenever the sewerage system is extended to a point within
100 feet of a property (i) sewerage charges would be assessed on that pro-
perty on water consumed and (ii) the waste producer would be required to
connect to the system. To ensure that the sewerage and treatment systems
are used efficiently, the City has agreed to review and, as necessary,
modify and supplement its existing sewerage by-laws by January 1, 1978.



- 21 -
This review should consider, among other things, surcharges for industrial
wastes. These points are incorporated in the draft legal documents.
6.20      The cost of connection to the sewerage system will, as in the
past, be paid by the property owner who also must pay for any plumbing in
the dwelling necessary for connection. In order to promote connections
by all consumers including the poor, the Government has agreed in a draft
supplemental letter to take appropriate measures to provide financial
assistance to those householders faced with financial difficulties in
meeting the costs of sewer connection and household plumbing or replumbing.
Since the amount of funds required for the purpose can be determined only
by experience as the system is extended, an assessment of the amounts re-
quired will be made by SD when the project is underway.
Future Finances
6.21      The financial projections indicate that on the basis of Govern-
ment's decision to finance the project with loans, the debt of SD will be
relatively high, approximately 80% of combined debt and equity at the end of
the period of funds disbursement in 1981. However, this method of financing
will assure a flow of funds back to Government through debt service payments,
which can assist Government in the financing of future stages of the sewer-
age program or facilitate the financing of other essential needs.
6.22      Annual debt service requirements would be covered from 1.2 to
1.3 times during the projection period, except in the first two years when
the coverage would be higher. SD, on the basis of the projections, will
generate sufficient cash to provide about 19% of the funds required for
its construction program.
6.23      During the project period the performance of SD will be monitored.
Performance indicatorsand target dates for key actions are set forth in
Annex 12.
6.24      With respect to any indebtedness which might be proposed to
finance SD other than under the project, it was agreed that the City will
seek the Bank's consent to incur any such debt if net income of SD before
interest and depreciation would be less than 1.2 times the maximum debt
service in any future year.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a) Provision of Government and private land (para 3.06).
(b) Employment of engineering and management consultants
and the execution of engineering designs (paras 3.08
and 5.10).



- 22 -
(c) The design and construction of sewerage in Zones 3B and
6 to receive sewage flows from the State of Selangor
(para 3.09).
(d)  Preparation of a program to implement existing pollution
control legislation (para 3.16).
(e) Establishment of an intra-governmental coordinating
committee for sewerage and pollution control and the
designation of an agency responsible for sewerage in
the State of Selangor (para 3.18).
(f) Measures for improving urban planning in the Federal
Territory and adjacent state areas (para 3.19).
(g) Establishment and functioning of a separate Sewerage
Department (paras 5.08-5.09).
(h) Appointment and training of staff (para 5.08).
(i) Billing and collection of sewerage charges and
the audit of accounts (paras 5.12-5.14).
t;) Provision of adequate funds for the Project and for
working capital, the terms of relending of the
Bank loan, and lending terms for Government financing
(para 6.06).
(k) The nature and level of sewerage charges and restrictions
on the incurrence of debt (paras 6.16 and 6.24).
(l) Review and modification of sewerage by-laws (para 6.19).
7.02      The execution by Government and the City of a relending agreement
acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para 6.06).
7.03      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$21.5 million equiv-
alent for a term of 21 years including a grace period of six years.
February 2, 1976



ANNEX 1
Page 1
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
Existing Sewerage Facilities
1.        Existing sewerage facilities and additions presently under design
or being constructed are shown on Map 11643. Only principal facilities, i.e.,
trunk sewers, major treatment works and disposal facilities are shown there-
on.
Sewerage Systems
2.        Numerous sewerage systems, both public and private, exist within
the Federal Territory (FT). However, the Pantai system, owned and operated
by the City of Kuala Lumpur, is the only one of significance. Remaining
systems are limited to Besi and Wardieburn, serving a military encampment
and a military housing estate, respectively, and numerous small sewer systems
serving private housing developments. Approximately 200,000 persons of
FT's 1975 estimated population of 780,000 are served by the Pantai system,
approximately 10,000 persons by the Besi and Wardieburn systems. The Pantai,
Besi and Wardieburn systems cover a combined area of about 1,610 ha (3,980 ac)
and are delineated on map 11643.  An estimated additional 160,000 persons are
served by the smaller systems, which are widely disbursed throughout FT.
The latter discharge to approximately 60 Imhoff tanks and an unknown number
of septic tanks, all of which are privately owned and located within FT.
The remaining population is dependent upon night soil collection or privies
for sanitation service.
3.        Four additional sewer systems discharging to Imhoff tanks are
operated and maintained by the City. They provide service to approximately
5,000 persons resident in low-cost housing estates located outside but
immediately adjacent to the FT boundary in the Upper Kerayong area. The
area is outside the City's jurisdiction, but the City agreed to provide
sewer service at the request of Government.
Pantai System
4.        The Pantai system, which began operations in the mid-1950's, con-
sists of a gravity-flow collection system, a single wastewater treatment
plant and disposal works. This system forms the nucleus of planned future
additions and is described in more detail in the following paragraphs.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Reticulation (lateral) Sewers
5.        Reticulation sewers consist of gravity mains ranging in diameter
from 100 mm (4 in) to 375 mm (15 in) and constructed either of reinforced
concrete pipe or vitrified clay pipe. Clay pipe presently is used only for
sizes up through 12 inches in diameter and is constructed of cement-mortared
bell and spigot joints. Reinforced concrete pipe is internally protected
against corrosion by extra-thickness, high-alumina cement mortar and
utilizes rubber-ring gasket joints. Both types of pipe are locally manufactured
and normally are laid with Portland cement concrete bedding. Current policy
requires that private developers finance the capital costs of lateral sewers
needed to serve newly-developed areas. All other lateral sewers are
financed by the City of Kuala Lumpur.
Trunk Sewers
6.        The Pantai zone also is served by 48.3 km (30.0 mi) of gravity
mains 450 mm (18 in) to 1,500 mm (60 in) in size. Trunk sewers are constructed
of reinforced concrete pipe similar in design to that used for reticulation
sewers and are owned and maintained by the City. A portion of the capital
cost ot certain trunk sewers is borne by developers.
Treatment Works
7.        The existing Pantai treatment works provide primary treatment
only and include an influent lift station, grit chamber and comminutors,
primary clarifiers, a gravity outfall to the River Gombak (major tributary
of the Klang River) primary and secondary sludge digesters and sludge-drying
beds. The plant also has facilities for accepting and processing night soil
with the sewage sludge. The clarifiers have a combined rated hydraulic
capacity of 6 IMgd based upon a detention time of 4-1/4 hours. Other plant
components have capacities substantially in excess of this with the lift
station having a firm capacity of 25 IDMgd and the grit chamber and com-
minutors designed for flows in excess of 30 IMgd. Current average daily flow
approximates only 11 IMgd. Biologic loading, however, represents a problem
because Pantai's primary treatment works are relatively ineffective in
reducing the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of the waste. Tentative stan-
dards of discharge quality recently developed by the consultants for the
Klang system, if adopted, will require the upgrading of existing treatment
processes so as to limit the BOD of treatment plant effluent to no more than
50 mg/l. The BOD of recent Pantai discharges has approximated 85 mg/l. The
present treatment plant site is suitably located so as to service additional
properties within the Pantai zone that may be developed and sewered in the
future. However, the site is not sufficiently large so as to provide all of
the space required for future plant expansion.
Sungei Beasi System
8.        The Sungei Besi system is a small, isolated system located in
the extreme southeast portion of FT that provides service solely to the



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Royal Military College and appurtenant facilities. It is maintained by the
Selangor State Public Works Department. The system consists of a collection
system, two pump stations and appurtenant pumping (force) mains, treatment
works and a gravity outfall to the Besi River. The treatment works provide
secondary treatment and consist of: inlet works, primary clarifiers, acti-
vated sludge units using surface aeration, secondary clarifiers, sludge di-
gesters and sludge drying beds. The hydraulic capacity of the plant is esti-
mated to be about 1.0 IMgd. The consultants have indicated that wastewater
reaching the plant is weak and represents only a small fraction of the
plant's rated hydraulic capacity. Partly for this reason, the aeration
facilities are operated only intermittently. Despite this, a good quality
effluent (less than 20 mg/l BOD) is achieved although the facilities
reportedly are in poor condition. From a topographic standpoint the plant
is poorly located and cannot provide economical sewer service to the entire
Besi zone. Because of a high reliance upon mechanical equipment, the treat-
ment works are difficult to maintain and expensive to operate. It is intended
to continue to utilize the existing treatment works until such time as a more
suitably located facility is constructed downstream to serve all of the zone.
Wardieburn System
9.        The Wardieburn system also is an isolated, small system.  It is
located in the extreme northeast sector of FT and was placed in operation
by the City during 1969 in order to provide sewer service to an adjacent
military housing estate. The system consists of a collection grid, treatment
works and a gravity outfall to the Bunus River. The treatment works utilize
waste stabilization ponds and have a rated capacity of 0.4 IMgd for treating
wastes from a design population of 8,000 persons. The facility, which was
established as a pilot plant to test the efficacy of this type of treatment
in Malaysia, generally has been operated at less-than-design loadings.
Currently the plant is treating 0.3 IMgd of wastewater contributed by a
population of 7,000 persons and reportedly has provided the indicated reduction
of organic loading:
Influent BOD, mg/l        155
Effluent BOD, mg/l         29
Reduction in BOD
mg/i            126
%              81
10.       The treatment works have proven to be quite effective.  Based upon
the figures shown above, effluent quality more than meets the tentative BOD
upper limit (50 mg/l) that has been suggested for discharges to the Klang
system that may occur prior to 1986. However, the site of the treatment
works is in a location where it cannot economically provide service to the
entire service area of the proposed sewerage zone (Zone 3-B) in which it
is sited. Current planning is to continue to utilize the facility until a
regional system of sewerage is developed to a level sufficient to deacti-
vate the present treatment works.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Minor Sewered Systems
11.       Remaining sewered populations are served by small, communal systems
which drain either to Imhoff tanks or to septic tanks. The majority of these
systems were designed to handle human waste sewage but not sullage. The latter
is discharged either directly to the river system or to open surface water
drains tributary thereto. Industries located within FT also discharge their
wastes to open drains, generally without treatment.
Night Soil Collection
12.       Approximately 22% (or about 170,000) of the FT population is pro-
vided night soil collection from bucket latrines. Collection generally is
at a frequency of several times per week. Collection is done by the Urban
Services Department of the City of Kuala Lumpur and by private contractors.
The latter are retained either by the Urban Services Department or directly
by the customer. Disposal of the waste varies by area and by contracting
authority. Most common disposal methods include: delivery to Pantai
treatment works, trenching, discharge to ponds or streams or sale to vegetable
farmers. The average cost to the householder who directly utilizes private
contractors typically ranges from M$1.00 to M$7.00 per bucket per month.
Where the service is provided either directly or indirectly by the City, no
separately identifiable charge is made to the householder.
Privies and Latrines
13.       An additional 31% (or about 240,000 persons) of the current
population utilize other forms of sanitation service. The majority of
these are individually-owned pit privies and over-water latrines construc-
ted by the householder.
December 31, 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
Description of the ProJect
Introduction
1.        The project consists of the expansion and modification of the
city of Kuala Lumpur's existing municipal wastewater system. Construction
is scheduled for the period 1976-80. The project represents Stage 1 of a
multi-stage sewerage development program identified for the greater Kuala
Lumpur area for the 30-year planning period 1976-2005. The program was
developed by the consulting firm of D. Balfour & Sons in association with
Malaysia International Consultants, with the assistance of the City of
Kuala Lumpur and Government. Principal sewerage facilities, both existing
and proposed, are shown on Map 11643.
Project ObJectives
2.        Although Stage 1 improvements originally were designed to provide
sewer service to a larger area including adjacent areas of Selangor State,
the scope of the original plan has been reduced by Government so as to
provide sewer service only to the Federal Territory (FT). A general
objective of the project is to provide improved sanitation service to the
maximum number of persons in the shortest possible time. Other more
specific objectives are to:
a.   obtain maximum utilization from existing municipal sewerage;
b.   reduce dependence upon "night soil" collection, septic tanks
and other individual waste disposal methods;
c.   establish a high priority for future sewer service to nearby
developing areas where septic tanks or Imhoff tanks do not
exist but are scheduled for early construction and a lesser
priority for sewer service to developed areas whether those
facilities already exist or have been committed to construc-
tion; and
d.   provide wastewater treatment processes that are simple but
effective in limiting pollution of the area's surface waters
to present levels.
Sewered Population and Service Area
3.        The project will provide municipal sewer service to an incremental
population of about 200,000 persons resident within an expanded service area
of approximately 3,600 ha (8,700 ac) by the year 1981.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Physical Elements
Land
4.        Land as required for service in Kaula Lumpur and environs during
the period 1976-2005 is to be acquired or reserved for the sites of treat-
ment plant or pumping plant in accordance with the following schedule.
Sewerage Zone         Stage of       Required Land Area
No.    Name       Construction        (ha)      (ac)          Site Usage
1   Pantai              I            35.0        86.0       Treatment Works
2   Jinjang             II           31.7        78.3       Treatment Works
2   Jinjang             II            0.2         0.5       Pumping Plant
3   Bunus                I           29.5        73.0       Treatment Works
3A  Gombak            III             0.2         0.5       Pumping Plant
3B  Bunus                I            0.2         0.5       Pumping Plant
5   Lower Kerayong       I           17.0        42.0       Treatment Works
6   Puchong              I          129.5       320.0       Treatment Works
7  Besi                II            24.7        61.0       Treatment Works
11   Damansara                         8.1        20.0       Treatment Works
The timing on land required for Zone 11 is undeterminate but will depend
upon the relative rate of development and the criteria established by the
relevant land development authority. Zones other than those shown in the
table are located mainly outside FT. Action relative to the acquisition
or reservation of land required for these latter zones is to be deferred
until agreement between the City and Selangor State has been reached
regarding future sewer service. Additional as yet unspecified land areas
in the form of utility easements (statutory wayleaves) will be required in
order to accommodate alignments to trunk sewers, force (pumping) mains and
treatment plant outfalls (disposal mains) that are proposed outside public
rights-of-way. The areal extent of land to be acquired or reserved is based
upon providing regional sewer service to Selangor State and FT assuming
complete development within each zone.
Gravity Sewers
5.        The project will include approximately 84 km (52 mi) of reticulation
sewers varying in diameter from 225 mm (9 in) to 375 mm (15 in) and 25 km
(15.5 mi) of trunk sewers ranging in size from 375 mm to 1530 mm (60 inches).
An additional 24 km (15 mi) of local sewers are expected to be added to the
system concurrently outside the scope of this project from contributions made
by land developers in newly developed areas.
6.        Vitrified clay (stoneware) and reinforced concrete pipe manu-
factured locally according to Australian standards are available for use
in the project. Rubber ring gaskets or plastic joint materials will be
used to assure water-tight joints.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
7.        Although vitrified clay pipe currently is manufactured locally
in sizes up to only 300 mm (12 in) and without flexible joints, changes
anticipated in the manufacturing process are expected to result in the
availability of clay pipe with a larger range of sizes and improved joint
materials.
8.        Locally manufactured reinforced concrete pipe to be furnished for
the project will be protected from internal corrosion caused by hydrogen
sulfide. The protection will be provided either by a high alumina cement
mortar lining or by a plastic liner.
Pumping Plant
9.        Due to moderate slope of the natural ground surface in the service
area, the need for pumping is minimized. However, that pumping which is
required will be provided either in the form of lift stations located at
the individual treatment works or, alternatively, at offsite facilities to
convey raw sewage to the treatment works.
Treatment Works
10.       Separate facilities incorporating secondary type treatment are to
be provided for each of the sewerage zones with the sites of the facilities
normally located adjacent to major tributaries of the Klang River drainage
basin. Tratuent processess will be relatively simple incorporating little
in the way of mechanical equipment and will be provided in two phases:
(i) physical separation provided by grit removal, coarse screening, com-
minution and metering, and (ii) secondary treatment provided by waste-
stabilization ponds. Secondary treatment will consist either of facultative
ponds or aerated lagoons with the former utilizing natural processes of
aeration and tha latter supplementing this with mechanical aeration.  Since
aerated lagoons require higher operating costs and greater sophistication
but a smaller space, their usage will be restricted to zones where the area
of land required is great and the unit cost of land is high. Treatment
units provided as part of the project will be capable of being upgraded to
meet more stringent discharge requirements which may be imposed at a later
date. Existing treatment units will continue to be used for the time being.
Disposal Facilities
11.       The project makes maximum use of existing watercourses for disposal
of treated wastewater and, due to the close proximity of treatment sites
to these streams, little in the way of additional conveyance facilities is
required in most sewerage zones. In all instances, gravity discharge is
possible. A total of 1.4 km (0.9 mi) of reinforced concrete pipe ranging in
size from 1200 am (48 in) to 1500 mm (60 in) is included in the project
as treatment plant outfall.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Other Plant
12.       The project also includes sewer maintenance equipment, vehicles,
boats and spare mechanical aerators.
Design Criteria
Design Period
13.       Project facilities will be designed on the basis of flow estimated
to occur either by the year 1985 or 2005. Those project units, such as
pumps and wastewater treatment units which can be readily installed or
constructed in stages, will be sized based upon the earlier year. Other
facilities such as sewers, the construction of which is not generally amen-
able to staged construction, will be sized for flows expected to occur in
the year 2005.
Wastewater Quantities
14.       Projections of future wastewater flows (Annex 5) are based upon
residential, commercial and industrial land use of all properties likely to
be connected to the sewers of the Sewerage Department (SD). Average
domestic flows likely to be contributed by residential and commercial devel-
opments were estimated by multiplying the equivalent population by the per
capita wastewater production. Equivalent population, as used here, refers to
resident population plus the effective population represented by commercial
and industrial land use. In detenmining the latter an average wastewater
flow of 3,600 Igd/ac was assumed to be contributed by such non-residential
development in 1975, increasing to 7,100 Igdfac in 2005. Average annual per
capita wastewater contributions are expected to increase in future years
based upon a trend of increasing per capita water consumption. Assumed values
for each used in project planning are shown below:
Per Capita Flow Rates
Calendar             Water               Wastewater,1
Year            Consumption          Contribution-
(Igd)                 (Igd)
1975                53                   43.9
1980                57                   46.2
1985                60                   48.5
2005                73                   59.4
/1   Reflects dry weather flow only.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Design Flows
15.       Sewers and pumping plant units are to be sized upon peak flow
considerations and treatment units upon average annual flow. Peak flow
(Annex 5) was estimated by applying infiltration and peaking factors to
average annual dry weather flows. Peaking factors relative to the domestic
fraction of dry weather flows were estimated to vary inversely as equivalent
population with the individual factors varying from a maximum value of 5 for
a population of 1,000 persons to a minimum value of 3.5 for a population of
200,000. A peak factor of 2 was used in estimating peak flows contributed
by industrial areas. SD and the consultant are continuing to study the
relationship of peak flows. Based upon the results of these studies, it is
possible that the magnitude of peak flow factors used in the project will be
adjusted prior to final design.
Design of Sewers
16.       Sewers for the project have been sized to carry design flows when
operating in the flowing full condition. Minimum diameter of gravity section
proposed is 225 m (9 in). Friction factors assumed for the design of all
piping are based upon the Colebrook-White flow formula with the design of
gravity mains based upon a "ks" value of 0.6 mm and pressure mains based
upon a value of 0.15 mm. Grades are to be utilized that produce flowing-full
velocities not less than 0.8 m/sec (2.6 ft/sec) but not in excess of
3 r/sec (10 ft/sec). Depth of cover over pipe is to be not less than 1.2 m
(4 ft) within travelled right-of-way and not less than 0.8 m (3 ft) at all
other locations.
Wastewater Quality
17.       Criteria established for the design of project treatment facilities
are based solely upon hydraulic and organic loading with 5-day biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) being used as the index of organic pollution. Cur-
rently, raw sewage tributary to the Pantai treatment works has a BOD approx-
imating 170 mg/l. Future sewage strength is likely to be higher than this
due to the combined effect of reduced infiltration and increased per capita
BOD contributions. Future wastewater produced within FT and tributary to
project treatment units is expected to reflect the following per capita
and per unit area daily contributions of BOD:



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Per Capita BOD Contributions
Years          Domestic /1        Industrial /2
1975                                20  (18)
1985          .055 (.121)           22  (20)
2005          .060 (.132)           25  (22)
Notes: In terms of organic pollution contributed per day.
/1   Per capita:kg BOD/cap. (lb BOD/cap).
/2   Per unit area of industrially-zoned land; kg BOD/ha
(lb BOD/ac).
Discharge Requirement
18.       Existing waste discharges in the Klang system are interfering
with downstream beneficial use. Although the project facilities will inter-
cept only certain of these discharges, the consultants have indicated that,
by limiting the quality of treated effluent from project facilities to no
more than 50 mg/l of BOD, future pollution through the period 1985 should
be held to no more than present levels. Due to the expectation of a continued
increase in wastewater quantities, further restrictions in the allowable
quality of discharge - possibly to as low as 30 mg/l of BOD, may be re-
quired after 1985.
Treatment Plant Design Loadings
19.       In order to achieve the reduced level of organic pollution recom-
mended by the consultants, secondary treatment is required. Due to lesser
costs, secondary treatment will be provided at all proposed treatment sites
in the form of waste stabilization ponds. These are of two types. The
first type - facultative ponds, will be provided at all sites initially
except at Pantai. Because of the large amount of land required at Pantai
and the high unit cost in acquiring same, aerated lagoons -- which have a
significantly smaller land requirement -- are proposed at that site. As
the project area continues to develop and wastewater flows consequently
increase, it is proposed that certain of the facultative ponds initially
constructed elsewhere also would be converted to aerated lagoons. Project
treatment facilities have been sized and costed based upon the following
upper limits of organic loading:



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Upper Limit of            Maximum Permissible/2
Treatment Process        Organic Loading /1         Effluent Quality   -
Facultative pond            448  ( 400)                    50 /3
Facultative pond            224  ( 200)                    3o 7+
Aerated Lagoon             3700  (3300)                    50 7T
Aerated Lagoon             1850  (1650)                    30 /4
/1   Kg BOD/ha/day (lb BOD/ac/day).
/2   Recommended limits in terms of mg/l of BOD.
/3   Upon completion of project.  -
/4   Estimated requirement after 1985.
Some uncertainty still exists as to whether the indicated upper limits of
organic loading are applicable to Malaysia. SD would use the proposed
Pantai treatment facility as a facultative pond and aerated lagoon pilot
plant in order to verify the organic loading criteria.
Future Sewerage Zones
20.       Studies conducted by the consultants indicate that the least
cost of providing sewers to the conurbation area of Kuala Lumpur and environs
can be achieved through the retention of the existing Pantai zone plus the
future establishment of ten additional sewerage zones each of which would
contain an independent system of sewers and treatment facilities. The
characteristics of each of these zones or subzones (zone 3 has been further
subdivided into three smaller areas termed subzones) and an indication of
timing proposed for future implementated are shown below.
Characteristics of Future Sewerage Zones
Total    Projected      Portion
Area       1985         of Zone   Proposed Implementation
Zone Designation       of       Resident       within      Present      Later
Number      Name      Zone     Population        FT        ProJect      Additions
(ha)       (000's)        (Z)
1.   Pantai           N.A.        483            100          X            X
2.   Jinjang           5,650      207             85                        X
3A.  Gombak            2,100        63            75                        X
3B.  Bunus             2,120        88            90          X             X
3C.  Ampang/
Ulu Kelang       3,080       78             15                       X
4.   Upper Kerayong   2,000         38            20                        X
5.   Lower Kerayong   1,500         59           100          X             X
6.   Puchong           4,700       143            85          X             X
7.   S. Besi           2,360       41             65                        X
8.   Serdang           1,550        22             0                        X
9.   Petaling Jaya    2,675        135              5                       X
10.  S. Way/Subang    1,950       155              0                        X
11.  Damansara         1,307       43             88                        X



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Project Improvements by Zone
Summary
21.       Project facilities would permit the expansion of sewer service in
the Pantai zone and the creation of three new sewerage zones. The following
table summarizes the percent of total project cost and the sewer lengths and
pumping station capacities for each of the zones, and paragraphs 22-26
provide further description of the proposed facilities including details
of treatment plants.
Sewer Length          Pumping Capacity            Force
Zone and  % of Total                               At Project              Main
Number   Project Cost Lateral  Trunk  Existing  Completion  Ultimate  Length
(km)    (km)   (1/sec)    (lJsec)    (1/sec)   (km)
Pantai 1       45         43        11    1,900      5,700        11.500    /1
Bunus 3       27          10         4        0        700         3,080    1.8
Lower
Kerayong 5   23          29         6        0        470         1,480    /1
Puchong 6       5          3         3        0         70 /2         70 /2 0.2
0        91 /3      3,010 /3
/1   Pumping plant is at the treatment plant site.
/2   Pumping Station 6A.
/3   Pumping Station 6.
Pantai (Zone 1)
22.       Treatment plant capacity would be increased as indicated below
through the addition of aerated lagoons.
Treatment                  Hydraulic Loading             Organic Loading
Plant                                                            Population
Capacity                   (1/sec)    (IMgd)      Kg/BOD/day       Equivalent
(000 a)
Capacity required
for 1985                  1,431       27.2          31,200           567
Present capacity              631       12.0          14,700           268
Capacity added by Project    800        15.2          16,500           299



ANNEX 2
Page 9
The additions at the treatment works are planned so as to permit later ex-
pansion to ultimate capacity at this site for hydraulic loading of 2,900
1/sec and organic loading of 55,900 kg BOD/day.
Bunus (Zone 3)
23.       In addition to the sewers shown on the table (para 21), a force
main is required which would connect PS 3B to the site of the proposed
wastewater treatment works. The treatment plant facilities would provide
the following capacities:
Hydraulic Loading       Organic Loading
Kg BOD/day Population
Equivalent
(1/sec)    (IMgd)                   (000'_)
Capacity provided by project        274          5.2       6,400        117
Ultimate capacity                   705         13.4      14,700        245
The capacities shown for treatment facilities reflect service to FT.  The
project also would include a 1.3 km (0.8 mi) long gravity outfall for
effluent disposal to the Gombak River. Design of the outfall would be
based upon maximum development of the zone. Due to the large areas and
substantial populations that are located outside FT but within the zone
(particularly within Ampang/Ulu Kelang Subzone 3C) which need improved
sanitation service, it is important that agreement be reached between the
City and Selangor State regarding future sewer service to these outside
areas prior to finalizing the design of project facilities.
Lower Kerayong (Zone 5)
24.       The treatment works would have an on-site raw sewage lift station
(PS 5) and disposal facilities. The treatment plant would be constructed
in stages with the following capacities:
Hydraulic Loading Organic Loading
Kg BOD/day   Population
Equivalent
(1/sec)    (IMgd)                    (000's)
Capacity provided by project         142         2.7       4,000         72
Ultimate capacity                    521         9.9      11,800        197



ANNEX 2
Page 10
Since the treatment plant site is located adjacent to the Kerayong River
(the recipient of the zone's treated effluent) a short length of gravity
outfall is necessary for disposal. The project would provide treatment on
an interim basis to wastewater diverted from adjacent sewerage Zone 6.
This diversion would be discontinued at a later date after trunk sewers
proposed for Zone 6 have been extended to serve upstream portions of that
zone.
Puchong (Zone 6)
25.       Despite the large area and extreme length (about 14 km) of this
zone, interim diversions of wastewater to other adjacent zones (1 and 5)
would minimize project costs for the zone. The treatment works and on-site
raw sewage lift station (PS 6) would be located outside the zone (and out-
side the FT) in Selangor State and would include disposal facilities. As
mentioned earlier, wastewater tributary to the upstream portion of the zone
initially would be diverted to the treatment works proposed for adjacent
Zone 5. Similarly, a temporary pumping facility (PS 6A) would be provided
as part of the project to divert wastewater originating in the central
portion of Zone 6 through a 200 m force main of 175 mm diameter to a trunk
sewer proposed for adjacent Zone 1.
26.       The lift station (PS 6) would be expandable to an ultimate capacity
of 3,010 1/sec based upon also providing service to zonal areas located outside
FT. Treatment facilities would be designed to provide the following capaci-
ties:
Hydraulic Loading           Organic Loading
Population
Equivalent
(1/sec)    (IMgd)    Kg BOD/day           (000's)
Capacity provided by
project                         18         0.4           400               7
Ultimate capacity                938        17.8        20,000             334
Although consideration was given to using an enlarged version of the proposed
Zone 6 treatment works for also treating flows from other upstream sewerage
zones (4 and 5) in later years, treatment capacities shown above reflect
service only to Zone 6 and to FT. The disposal facilities would consist of
a short length of gravity outfall sewer for discharging treated effluent
from the treatment works to the adjacent Klang.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
Sewerage Facilities by Others
Lateral sewers provided by developers
27.       Lateral sewers scheduled for the project represent only part of
the total activity of lateral sewer construction expected to occur within
PT during the project period 1976-1981.  An additional 25 km (15 mi) of
such sewers are to be constructed by private developers but according to the
standards and with the approval of SD.
Sewerage developments by UDA
28.       Sewerage facilities also are being planned for selected portions
of FT by the Urban Development Authority (UDA), a National government
development agency. Land clearance for a major UDA housing development of
approximately 253 ha (625 ac) already has begun in the Damansara (Zone 11)
area. Planning and design criteria for such developments are determined
by UDA staff in consultation with SD.
Consulting Services
Engineering
29.       It is proposed that the services of several organizations be
utilized in the implementation of the project. The City's Sewerage De-
partment yould administer the project and would engage up to three firms
-o0  engineering consultants.  A principal firm would be responsible for the
preparation of standard designs and conditions of contract, as well as
the design of a portion of the project facilities. The design and prepara-
tion of tender documents for remaining portions of the project would be
accomplished by the other engineering consultants and, possibly, supple-
mented by the staff of SD as well. Construction would be supervised by
the same firms responsible for design.
Management
30.       The services of a management firm would be retained during the early
part of the project to assist SD principally in establishing and installing
a commercial accounting system.
Staffing Plan
31.       Table 1 sets forth a summary of a staffing plan for SD which was
formulated during project preparation and the appraisal mission. The table
shows the types and numbers of employees engaged in the City's sewerage



ANNEX 2
Page 12
operations as of March 1975 and projected for SD for each of the years
1976-1980.
December 31, 1975



AISfolt 2
Table 1
MALAYSIA
KSAIA LU 3T SEWEMRAGE PROJECT
Staffing PI- for Seerage Dtlntent
lumer of Positions
Actual March 1975       --- ___ Projected for June 30 
Division and Position                       'Filled  Authorized   1976            1977       1f978       1979       1980
Chief Engineer                                    _                      1          1           1          1 
Secretary                                       _         _           1           1          1           1          1
Sub-total                              _         -           2           2         7-           W          2
Deputy Chief Engineer                             -          -           1          I           1          1          1
S-cret-ey                                                 -            1          i          1           1          1
Sob-total                              _         -            2          2          9           2          2
Administrstion Division
Aninistrstive Officer                                                  I _  i     1           1          1          1
Ad=nisstratiwe Assistant - Persornel                                 I -  1     1          1           1          1
Adsinistrstiwe Assistant - General                                  I _   1     1          1           1          1
Clerci!                                       4         4           5           5          5          5           5
Stenogrspher &/                               1         1           2           2          2           2          2
Typist Isn                                              1           5           5          6           6          6
Messenger  1/                                 1         i           2           2          3           3          3
Sub-total                              7         T                      17         19          19         19
A.cosntilg DiviSion
Secior Acoasot-nt                               -         -            1          1          1           1          1
Assistant Accountant                          _         -           1           1          1           1          1
Acconts Clerk                                 -         _           2           2          2           2          2
SOb-total                             -          -
Planning and Desigs Division -/
Senior Engineer                                 -         I            1          1          1           1          1
Assistant Engineer                            1         2            3          3          3           3          3
Senior Technical Assistant                    -         -           1           1          1           '          1
Tec-hsicl Assistant                           -         2           1           1          1           1          1
Surveyor                                      2         2           3           3          4           4          4
Draf.smsr.1                                   2         2           2           2          3           3          3
Tracer  !                                     2         2           3           3          4           4          4
Map Printer I/                                -         -            I          I          1           1          1
Survey Laborr/                                4         4           6           6          8          8           8
Sub-total                             1I        15          21          21         5C         38          26
Cunstruction Division
Seior Engincer                                  -          -           1          1           1          1          1
Assistant Engineer                            -         1            3          4          4           4          4
T-ch.ical Assistant                           2         4           2           2          2          2           2
Clerk of Works/Tehcl.ician                    1         6           3           4          4           4          4
Outb-total                             3        il            9         11         11          11         11
T-vciop-ent Contrsl Division
Secior Engineer                                 -         -            1          1          1           1          1
Assistant Engineer                            1         2            2          2          2           2          2
Senior Applicatiors Assistant                 -         -           I           1          1           1          1
Applications Assistant                        1         3            4          4          4           4          4
S-nior Inspector                              -         -           2           2          2           2          2
Inspector                                     1         4           7           7          7          7           7
Sub-tat1                              3          9          I7         i7         17          I7         17
Oper-tioas Division
Senior Chcmict-M-sger                           1         1            I          1           1          1          1
clrlr/Typlst                                  1         1           2           2          2          2           2
3upplies Assistant                            -         -           1           1          1          1
i. lesser Maiccenanoc
Sopervisor                                1          1           1          1           1          1           1
M..dor                                     1         1           3           3          3          3           3
Lsborer                                  15         15          17         19          22         25          27
Msson                                      1         1           2           2          2          2           2
Mste                                       1         1           2           2          2          2           2
2. Pusplg Stations
Secervisor                                 1         1           1           1          1          1           1
El-ctri-al Chs.g-aan                       1         1           1           1          1          1           1
Filter/Operator                            7         7           8          8           8          8           8
Mats                                       2         2           3           3          3           3          3
Driver                                    _          _           1           1          1          1           1
3. TretEnt
Cheaist                                    1         1           2          2           2          2           2
Eristing Works:
Operator                                  7          7           7          7           7          7           7
land.r                                     1         1           1           1          1          1           1
Security                                   3         3           3       .   3          3          3           3
lborer                                   17y        17          17         17          17         17         17
New Warts: 3/
Plant Supervisor                                                 I -  1      1          1          1           1
Lsboratory Assistant                       -         -           5           5          5           5          5
Lsboratory Attendant                       -         -           4           4          4          L           4
Sonpling/MSter Render                               I-                       1          1          1           1
Laborer -                                            _           1           3          5          7           8
4. Septic Tsnk Servicing
Senior Sope-visor                                                I -  1      1          1          1           1
Supervisor                                 1         1           2           2          2          2           2
Ibcorer                                    8         8          16         16          24         24          24
Pump Attendant                             1         1           2          2           3           3          3
Driver                                     1         1           3           3          3           3          3
3ub-total               '72                      =          09          13         17         135        135
TOTAL                                 g6       114          IS8        187        208         21S        216
1  Ps-.e. st  for YPrch 1975 one-third of a larger ntber shared wlth the Traffic and Road  snits
of the City Dspgineer's Doparest.  The cbters projected for tie ye-rs beginning with I976
sill b^ -calusively for the Se-esege Dep-otnent btt cill in shared by its Diris.iss.
3  Staffing plna n sunas SD will do a poeticn of the de=ign of ses.
3/ Inclding qsslity coatroi for both ncw and exioting works.
D-ee,,b-  3L, 1975



MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
---- LOCAL COSTS -------- ---___ ---------                             --- FOREIGN COSTS ---------------       -----
Year ending December 31        1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    Subtotal       1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    Subtotal        Total
M$ 000's
1/
Sewers
Lateral                                     -      1,728   6,731   9,258   3,750    21,467           -      349   1,262   1,763      715      4,o89      25,556
Trunk                                       -      1,889   3,175   6,259   2,848    14,171                  349     763   1,373      625      3,110      17,281
Pumping Plant
Civil Works                                 -        865   2,044     855      240     4,oo4          _      230     543      227      64      1,064       5,068
Mech. & Electrical Equipment                 -       260     568      211      59     1,098          -      607   1,326      489     140      2,562        3,660
Treatment Plant
Civil Works                                 -      1,575   4,757   8,368   2,109    16,809                  470   1,421   2,500      629      5,020      21,829
Mech. & Electrical Equipment                -        130     168       30       7       335          _      342      549      91      22      1,004        1,339
General Plant                                 -          6       7      -         5         18         -      171      192     -        63        426          444
Land                                        2240024oo                                                          -       -       -         -        -22, 400
Subtotal                     22,400   6,453  17,450  24,981   9,018    80,302           -    2,518   6,056   6,443   2,258    17,275         97,577
Consulting Services
Engineering design                          470      744     426     242        91    1,973         157     249      141      81      30        658       2,631
Supervision                                 -        619     916   1,011       330    2,876          -       77      160     211      59        507       3,383
Management                                    16      17    -         -      -           33          94      93      -       -       -          187          220
Contingencies
Physical                                     48      783   1,879   2,623      944     6,277          25     294     636      674     235      1,864       8,141
Price                                        30   1,669   7,394             6,742    30,265          17     498   2,208   4,310   2,014       9,047      39,312
TOTAL                       22 ,64  10   28,65  43,287 17,125   121,726               293   3729   9,201  11,719    4          29,         151,264
1/ For supply and installation.
December 22, 1975



ANNEX 4
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD                          Cumulative Disbursements
Fiscal Year                     at end of Quarter
and Quarter                         US$ 000's                     Percentage
1976-77
September 30, 1976                    111                          0.5
December 31, 1976                     174                          0.8
March 31, 1977                        322                          1.5
June 30, 1977                         634                          2.9
1977-78
September 30, 1977                    946                          4.4
December 31, 1977                   1,321                          6.1
March 31, 1978                      2,183                         10.2
June 30, 1978                      3,260                         15.2
1978-79
September 30, 1978                 4,337                          20.6
December 31, 1978                   5,629                          26.2
March 31, 1979                     7,548                           35.1
June 30, 1979                      9,469                          44.0
1979-80
September 30, 1979                11,386                          52.9
December 31, 1979                 13,305                          61.9
March 31, 1980                    14,898                          69.3
June 30, 1980                     16,490                          76.7
1980-81
September 30, 1980                18,083                          87.5
December 31, 1980                 19,675                          91.5
March 31, 1981                    20,600                          95.8
June 30, 1981                     21,500                         100.0
December 31, 1975



ANNEX 5
MALAYSIA
KUALA IUMRJR SEWERAGE PROJECT
Projected Wastewater Flows -/ 1976-2006
(Imgd)
Total
Sewerage Zone                              Flow,
Year    1     2      3      4       5      6      7       9        11    All Zones
Average Annual Flow
1976  12.8    0      .3     0       0      0      .1      0        0       13.2
1981  20.6    0     1.8      0     2.3     .3    .1       0        .5      25.6
1986  27.2   4.8    5.2     0      2.7    .4    .7        0       1.3      42.3
2006  55.1  23.9  13.4    1.6   10.5   17.8    5.8        .9     3.6      132.6
Peak Flow 3/
1976  51.0    0     1.5     0       0      0      o4      0        0
1981  82.1    0     7.2     0      7.8    1.6    .5       0       1.9
1986 108.5  15.4  17.3      0      8.9    1.7    2.7      0       4.9
2006 219.5  75.6   42.7    6.3   28.1   54.8  1605       3.6    12.7
Notes:
/ Projected flows reflect residential, conmercial and industrial land
use on all properties located within the Federal Territory that are
likely to be connected to the sewers of the Sewerage Department;
values are applicable to 12-month long period ending on June 30th
of indicated year.
/ Average annual dry weather flows.
j Values reflect application of infiltration and peaking factor
to average annual dry weather flow as follows:
a. Peak flow factor:
i. Domestic flow peak factor inversely proportional to
equivalent population of zone (factor varies from
maximum value of 5 for population of 1,000 to minimum
value of 3.5 for population of 200,000).
ii. Industrial flow peak factor value of 2 constant.
b. Infiltration:
i.  Pantai (Zone 1) infiltration equal to one-half of
dry weather flow.
ii. Zero infiltration assumed for all other zones.
June 2, 1975



ANNEX 6
Page 1
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUPFUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
CITY OF KUALA LUMPUR
Receipts and Expenditures
for Public Services 1968-1975
1.        The City of Kuala Lumpur and most of the public services required
by its population have been administered by City Hall. Sanitary services
have been provided by the City Engineer's Department and the Health and
Urban Services Departments. No specific revenues have been raised to meet
the operating or capital costs of the sewerage system, and accounts of the
system have not been maintained separately from the general accounts of
the City.
2.        Recurring expenditures of the City Departments have been met
from the General Rate Fund Revenue Account of the City. The major source
of this revenue is rate funds from property taxes. The rates are assessed
as a percentage of the annual value of property, based primarily on the
annual rental value to the owner, and they vary in different areas, with
the annual rate in the major areas being about 16% of annual assessed
valuation. A major valuation took place in 1960, and recently a new valua-
tion has been prepared which is expected to result in an increase in total
rateable values by at least 50%. However, it is contemplated that the
percentage assessment rates will be adjusted so that a householder's taxes
will not be increased in proportion to the increase in valuation.
3.        The following table summarizes the General Rate Fund Revenue
Account of the City, showing its revenues and expenditures for the years
1968-1974 and the budget estimate for 1975. The 1975 revenues from rates
are based on the existing assessed values, since the new ones are not
expected to go into effect until January 1, 1976. The 1975 expenditures
reflect increased services and expected price increases.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
CITY OF KUALA LUMPUR
General Rate Fund Revenue Account 1968-1975
M$ millions
Year Ending December 31   1968  1969  1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1975
Est.
Revenues
Rates                         12.7  13.9  14.9  15.9  16.8  18.9  21.8  24.7
Contributions in aid of rates  4.0   5.0  t.5   5.4  4.5   3.6  4.5   4.1
Road fund grants               2.2   2.1   2.6   2.4   2.5  3.1   3.6   3.3
Interest                       0.9   1.2  1.5   2.0   2.2   2.6   3.1   2.0
Development charges             -     -   0.9   1.0   1.7   2.8   3.5   2.5
Other revenues                 3.6  3.6   3.9   6.5   7.0  6.3   5.7  5.8
Total Revenues        23.4  25.8  29.3  33.2  34.7  37.3  42.2  42.4
E;cpenditures
Secretariat and Mayor         0.6  o.6   0.9  1.0   1.2   1.8   0.8   2.6
City Treasurer                1.3   1.2   1.2   0.9   0.9   0.9  1.1   1.4
City Engineer                 4.0  4.2   4.3   4.1   4.2  4.2   4.7   6.8
City Health Officer            6.9  6.7   6.9   6.9   3.6   3.5  3.7   h.8
Urban Services Dept.            -     -     -     -   4.2   4.2   4.9   6.5
Miscellaneous                  3.5   3.6   3.6  4.4   4.4   5.3   7.0   9.6
Special Services               3.0  3.2   5.3  9.0   7.8  12.0   7.6  13.3
Loan repayment                 2.9   2.9   2.8   2.9   3.1   3.3   3.7   4.3
Sub-total             22.2  22.4  25.0  29.2  29.4  35.2  33.5  49.3
To Surplus Account             1.2   3.4  4.3   4.0   5.3   2.1   8.7  (6.9)
Total                 23.4  25.8  29e3  33.2  34.7  37.3  42.2  42.4
4.        Capital expenditures of the Departments of the City were met from
the City's General Development Fund to which the major part of the Special
Services funds shown in the above table were transferred prior to their use.
Capital expenditures for the sewerage system (Annex 7, para 4) have been
financed with the aid of Government loans to the City, of which about M$22
million are outstanding in 1975.
June 2, 1975



ANNEX 7
MALAYSIA                      Page 1
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
CITY OF KUALA LUMPUR
Expenditures on Sewerage System 1968-1975
1.        Annex 7, Page 2, shows the operating and capital expenditures made by
the City of Kuala Lumpur on the sewerage system during the years 1968-1974 and
estimated for the year 1975. The sewerage accounts have not been maintained
separately from the accounts of the City, and expenditures are recorded on a
cash rather than an accrual accounting basis. Operating expenditures of City
Departments have been met from the General Rate Fund and Capital expenditures
from the General Development Fund (Annex 6).
2.        The general salaries and other staff expenses are not recorded sepa-
rately between the sewer system and septic tank servicing, although there has
been separate recording for the treatment works, which is the largest category
of expense. The recurring expenditures on page 3 reflect an allocation of
salaries, allowances, and other staff expense in the ratio of 80/20 between the
sewer system and septic tanks.
3.        Operating expenditure estimates for the year 1975 reflect volume of
work approximating the 1974 level and increased prices, including a new person-
nel compensation structure provided employees of local authorities.
4.        Capital expenditures for the sewer system totalled approximately
M$24.4 million from inception through 1967. Page 2 shows additional capital
expenditures for the years 1968-1975 of approximately M$11.1 million, for a
total of M$35.5 million of capital expenditures from inception through 1975.
5.        The costs of connection to the sewerage system are paid by house-
holders, who are required to connect when a sewer is brought within 100 feet
of their property.
6.        Septic tanks are provided by the owner of the property.  The City
charges owners for servicing septic tanks according to the tank's capacity
and whether the owner has entered into a maintenance agreement. However,
many owners are served directly by private contractors. The total revenue
to the City for septic tank servicing varied from about M$55,000 in 1968 to
an estimated M$100,000 in 1975, approximating the cost to the City of the
direct expense of servicing the tanks.
7.        The City provides conservancy services by the bucket system through
its Urban Services Department for about 50,000 people. Annual expense of this
service to the City, which is met from the General Rate Fund, averages about
M$12 per person. It is also estimated that over 100,000 squatters in the
City engage private contractors for a more limited service at an average
annual cost to them of over M$5 per person.



MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
CITY OF KUALA LUMPUR
Expenditures on Sewerage System 1968-1975
M$ 000O
Year Ending December 31      1968      1969       1970      1971       1972       1973       1974       1975
Eea=ate
OPERATING EXPENDITURES
Sewers
Salaries, Allowances
and Other Staff Expense       67        69         67        66        109       117         129        202
Maintenance                     37         40        36         38        50         63          51        80
Total Sewers                 104       109        103       104        159       180         180        282
Treatment Works (Pantai)
Staff and Administration        69         74        74         66        70         83         88        114
Other Operation
and Maintenance              233       229        187       208        250        258        294        278
Total Treatment              302       303        261       274        320        341-       382        392
Total Sewer System       4o6       412        364       378        479       521         562        674
Septic Tank Servicing
Salaries, Allowances
and Other Staff Expense       17        17         16        17         27         29         32         50
Maintenance                     57         57        56         58        68         62          70       100
Total Septic Tanks        74        74         72        75         95        91         102        150
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENDITURES  480        486        436        453       574        612         668       824
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                          235       776        763     2,417     1,087       2,925      2,855        Nfr
June 2, 1975



MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
Income Projections 1976-1985
M$ 000
Year ending December 31                           1976       1977      1978       1979       1980      1981       1982       1983       1984       1985
OPERATING REVENUE
Sewage Fees based on Water
Consumption (Annex 8-B)                                3,580      3,707     3,938      8,197    11,695    15,743    20,243    22,442    24,687    26,978
Less Water Division Collection Fee                           36        37         39         82       117        157        202        224       247        270
Balance                                          3,5I4      3,670     3,899      8,115    11,578    15,586                                TM4 22,218  26,708
Less Provision for Bad Debts                                18         19         20         41        58         79        101        112       123        135
Net Sewage Fees                                  3,526      3,651     3,879      8,074    11,520    15,507    19,940    22,106    24,317    26,573
Septic Tank Servicing Fees                                 213        234        363        399       439        613        613        613       613        613
Area Tax Assessment for Sewerage                         4,800      5,000      5,220      5,462     5,728      6,021      6,343      6,697     7,104      7,546
Total Operating Revenue                          8,539     8,885      9,462    13,935    17,687    22,141    26,896    29,416    32,034    34,732
OPERATING EXPENSE
Personnel                                                1,192      1,324      1,515      1,679     1,861      2,307      2,375     2,438      2,487      2,539
Power                                                      114        167        271        489       871      1,111      1,233      1,356     1,479      1,604
Maintenance                                                 182       193        196        258       400        615        723        831        944     1,063
Septic Tank Servicing                           .          111        122        201        222       244        341        341        341        341       341
Administration                                              366       381        288        313        338       385        398        413        429       444
Depreciation                                             1,459      1,540      1,562      2         3,142      4,679      5,323      6,093     6,902      7,712
Total Operating Expense                          3,424      3,727     4,033      5,001      6,856     9,438    10,393    11,472    12,582    13,703
Net Income Before Interest                                  5,115     5,158      5,429      8,934    10,831    12,703    16,503    17,944    19,452    21,029-
Interest (Excluding Interest
Charged to Construction)                                 1,279      1,237      1,192      1,146     1,06       0,0,490    10,177                          9,8~47
Net Income                                       3L836      3,921    _           -7         9,735       ,5       5,727       ,4        9,275    11,182
Operating Expense as Percent
of Operating Revenue                                        40         42         43         36         39        43         39         39         39         39
Average Net Fixed Assets
in Service                                              42,171    53,779    61,480    88,929   137,504   179,723   205,485   231,357   258,003   285,358
Rate of Return (Percent)                                     12.1       9.6        8.8       10.0        7.9       7.1        8.0        7.8        7.5        7.4
December 31, 1975



MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
Water Consumption and Sewage Fee Projections 1976-1985
Year Ending December 31                         1976      1977      1978      1979       1980      1981      1982       1983      1984      1965
Total Population (OOO)                                     810       838       867       897        928       960       994      1,029     1,065     1,102
Sewered Population (000)                                   213       216       226        254       378       436       488        539       591        642
% of Population Sewered                                   26        26         26        28        41        45         49        52        55         58
Number of Households Sewered (000)                          38        39        41         47        70        81         92       102       113        123
Water Consumption - Sewered Customers (IMg):
Domestic                                               4,177     4,311     4,563      5,210     7,871     9,175    10,364    11,576    12,810    14,067
Per Capita (Igd)                                        54        55        55         56        57        58        58         59        59        60
Comercial                                              1,738     1,814     1,944      2,179     2,468     2,615     2,726      2,839     2,954      3,070.
Industrial                                                52        54        57         63       293       320       405        546       694        848
Total Water Consumption                       5,967      6,179     6,564     7,452    10,632    12,110    13,495    14,961    16,458    17,985
Average Sewerage Rate Assumed in
Projections 4$/1,000 Ig Water                           o.60      0.60      o.60       1.10      1.10      1.30       1.50      1.50      1.50      1.50
Sewage Fees (N0)-Average
Rate x Water Consumption                               3,580     3,707     3,938      8,197    11,695    15,743    20,243    22,442    24,687    26,978
December 31, 1975



ANNEX 9
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
KJALA LINPOR SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
Cash Flow Projections 1976-1985
M$ 000
Total
Project
Period
Year ending December 31                       1976      1977      1978      1979       1980      1981        1976-1981          1982      1983      1984       1985
SOURCES OF F7NDS
Net Income Before Interest                           5,115     5,158      5,429     8,934    10,831    12,703          48,170         16,503    17,944    19,452    21,029
Depreciation                                         1,459     1,540     1,562      2,040  -  3.142     4,679          i4,422          5,323     6,093      6,902     7,712
Internal Cash Generation                     6,574     6,698     6,991    10,974    13,973    17,382          62,592          21,826    24,037    26,354    28,741
Less Increase in Current Items                         547        22         48       716       620       759           2.712            780       402        411       423
Net Cash Generation                          6,027     6,676     6,943    10,258    13,353    16,623          59,880          21,046    23,635    25,943    28,318
IBRP                                                 435     2,868    10,770    19,190    15,925      4,562          53,750            -         -          _         _
Government-Project                                20,400     8,500    25,300    34,200      3,800    (4,562)1/       87,638            -         -          -         -
Stage 2                                              -         -          -         -         -      263             26,300         26,400    25,200    24,400    23,300
Total Loans                                 20,835    11,368    36,070    53,390    19,725    26,300         167,688          26,400    25,200    24,400    23,300
City Cortribution                                      815       -            -       -         -         -               815
TOTAL S 0CES                               27,677    18,044    43,013    63,648    33,078    42,923         228,383          47,446    48,835    50,343    51,616
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Erpencdit-rs:
Project                                           23,147 5/ 13,904 5! 37,266    55,oo6    21,721        -           151,o44
Other                                                815       -         -                                              815
Stage                                                -         -         -          -         -      30,000          30,000         30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000
Total                                       23,962    13,904    37,266    55,006    21,721    30,000         181,859          30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000
Debt Service:
Interest
IBRr Loan b/                                         4i4       534     1,051     2,238      3,598     4,463         12,298           4,529     4,367     4,190      3,997
o-ormo-teno Loan-Project b/                          612     1,479     2,493      4,278     5,418     5,340          19,620          5,258     5,192      5,121     5,o46
Government Loans-Existing                          1,279     1,237     1,192      i,146     1,096     1,044           6,994            989       931        866       804
Stage 2 Loan s/                                      -         -         -          -         -         789             789          2,370     3,918     5,406      6,837
Total Intere-t                              2,305      3,250     4,736     7,662    10,112    11,636          39,701          13,146    14,408    15,583    16,684
Amortization
IBRD Loan                                            -         -         -          -         -         -                            1,879     2,041     2,218      2,411
Government Loan-Project                              -         -         -          -         -         -               -            1,109     1,175      1,246     1,321
Government Loan-Existing                             765       807       852        898       948     1,000           5,270          1 055     1,113      1 178     1 126
Total Amortizati^n                             765       807      8o52       o98        94E     1,000          5,270               3     4,329     4,6
Total Debt Service                           3,070     4,057     5,588     8,560    11,060    12,636          44,971          17,189    18,737    20,225    21,54
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                           7        17,961                                   42            2                4                   50225    51542
Additions to Cash                                        645        83        159        82       297        287          1,553            257         98       118        76
Cash at End of Year                                      645       728        887       969     1,266     1,553           1,553          1,810     1,908      2,026     2,102
Debt Service Covered-Times                               2.0       1.6        1.2       1.2       1.2        1.3            1.3            1.2       1.3        1.3       1.3
a/ Excludes management consulting fees of M$ 110,000 annually in 1976 and 1977 which are to be charged to operations.
b/ Interest charged to construction in 1976-1980 and to operations from 1981 on.
c/ Interest charged to construction.
4/ Represents reimbursement to Government from final Bank loan disbursements of amounts previously advanced by Government for project construction.
December 31, 1975



MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
Balance Sheet Projections 1975-1985
M$ 000
As of December 31                          1975      1976      1977      1978       1979      1980      1981      1982      1983       1984       1985
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets                             52,100    77,500    78,315    96,005   136,845   198,337   229,074   259,863   292,233    326,151   361,557
Less Accumulated Depreciation                  21,900    23,359    24,899    26,461    28,501    31,643    36,322    41,645    47,738      54,640    62,352
Net Fixed Assets                         30,200    54,141    53,416    69,544   108,314   166,694   192,752   218,218   244,495    271,511   299,205
Construction in Progress                          3,000     2,588    17,690    40,810    61,522    30,737    30,789    32,370    33,918      35,406    36,837
Total Fixed Assets                       33,200    56,729    71,106   110,354   169,836   197,431   223,541   250,588   278,413    306,917   336,042
Current Assets
Cash                                              -         645       728       887       969      1,266     1,553     1,810     1,908      2,026     2,102
Accounts Receivable                               -         623       648       707      1,412     1,993     2,687     3,426     3,787      4,155      4,531
Inventory                                          85        91        97        98        129       200       308       362       416        472        532
Total Current Assets                         85     1,359     1,473     1,692     2,510      3,459     4,548     5,598     6,111      6,653     7,165
TOTAL ASSETS                                       58 872,579 112,0 6 172,346   200,890   228089   256,186   2                 18,540          343,207
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Equity
City Contributed Capital                       10,058    10,873    10,873    10,873    10,873    10,873    10,873    10,873    10,873       10,873    10,873
Retained Earnings                                 -       31836     7,757    11,994    19,782    29,517    31,373    37,100    44,554       53,829    65,011
Total Equity                             10,058    14,709    18,630    22,867    30,655    40,390    42,246    47,973    55,427      64,702    75,884
Long-Term Debt
IBRD Loan                                         -         435     3,303    14,073    33,263    49,188    53,750    51,871    49,830       47,612    45,201
Government Loan-Project                           -      20,400    28,900    54,200    88,400    92,200    87,638    86,529    85,354       84,108    82,787
Government Loans-Existing                      23,227    22,462    21,655    20,803    19,905    18,957    17,957    16,902    15,789       14,611    13,485
Stage 2 Loan                                      -         -         -          -         -         -      26,300    52,700    77,900    102,300   125,600
Less Current Maturities                          (765)     (807)      (852)     (898)     (948)   (1,000)   (4,043)   (4,329)   (4,642)    (4,858)   (5,208)
Total Long-Term Debt                     22,462    42,490    53,0o6    88,178   140,620   159,345   181,602   203,673   224,231    243,773   261,865
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                  -          82        91        103       123       155       198       211        224        237       250
Current Debt Maturities                           765       807       852       898        948     1,000     4,043     4,329     4,642       4,858     5,208
Total Current Liabilities                   765       889       943     1,001      1,071     1,155     4,24i     4,54  4 ,866          5,095     5.458
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY             33,285    58,088    72,946   1                                    90_56_186_ _524    313,570 34,
Debt/Equity Ratio                                   69/31     74/26     74/26      79/21     82/18     80/20     81/19     81/19      80/20      79/21     78/22
December 31, 1975



ANNEX 11
Page 1
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
GENERAL
1.        The financial projections in Annexes 8 through 10 cover the six-
year period 1976-1981 for the proposed project to be financed with the
assistance of the IBRD loan, plus an additional four years through 1985
involving a second stage for which additional extensions to the system have
been proposed in the Master Plan.
INCOME STATEMENTS-REVENUE
2. Sewage Fees Based on Water Consumption
Sewage fees are based on the estimated water consumption of the
existing population connected to the sewerage system and the additional
population to be connected annually as a result of the proposed sewerage
extensions. The details with respect to projected water consumption and
sewage fees are in Annex 8-B.
The domestic per capita water consumption used in projecting the
sewage fees is based on the experience of the Selangor State Water Division
for urban metered consumption and on surveys of metered water use of con-
sumers in sewered areas. Moderate increases per capita from about 53 Igd in
1974 to 60 Igd in 1985 are assumed. The commercial and industrial categories
are estimated on the basis of surveys by the consultants.
The projected sewage fee rates are the estimated average rates per
1,000 Ig of water consumed which, together with the projected area tax
assessment for sewerage service (para 3), will produce sufficient revenues
to cover annually SD's operating expenses and debt service (to the extent
it exceeds the provision for depreciation), with net cash generation covering
debt service at least 1.2 times. The projected average rates per 1,000 Ig
are M$0.60 in_1976-78, M$1.10 in 1979 and 1980, and increase thereafter to
K$1.30 in 1981 and M$1.50 in 1982 and subsequent years, as shown in
Annex 8-B. These rates are also intended to provide some internal
cash generation which will be devoted by SD to its construction program.
A fee payable to the Water Division of 1% of the sewage fees as
compensation for its service of billing and collecting the fees for SD is
assumed. A provision for bad debts of 1/2 of 1% of billings is assumed and



ANNEX 11
Page 2
is considered adequate in the light of the experience of the Water Division
with its collections.
3.   Area Tax Assessment
The area tax assessment for sewerage is the estimated tax revenue
of the City assumed to be allocated to SD for sewerage service, projected
at the rate of 2% of annual property value as developed in a recent revalua-
tion by the City. The annual estimate takes into account a gradual increase
in the tax revenues as new properties are taxed, assuming the same tax rate
and basis of valuation.
4.   Septic Tank Servicing Fees
Septic tank servicing fees represent the projected revenues of
SD from the owners of septic tanks for the service of desludging and other
maintenance of such tanks in unsewered areas of the City. They assume an
increasing level of service through the year 1981 as the capabilities of
SD to perform the service in the extended Federal Territory are increased
as a result of the project. It has been assumed that the servicing fees
will cover SD's cost of rendering the service.
OPERATING EXPENSE
5.   Personnel
Personnel costs, including salaries, wages and allowances, are
based on the estimated numbers and categories of staff projected in the
proposed organization and staffing plan for SD. Increases in compensation
are assumed at the annual rate of 10% in 1976-1980, and at the increased 1980
price level thereafter ("inflation factor").
6.   Power
Power costs are projected primarily for the estimated volume
of sewage to be pumped, and allowance for price increases is included at
the inflation factor.
7.   Maintenance
Maintenance, other than labor included in the item of personnel
costs, is estimated at approximately 0.35% annually of gross fixed assets
(excluding land) in service at the beginning of each year.
8.   Septic Tank Servicing; Administration
Septic tank servicing expense represents the estimated expense
of operation of vehicles and equipment used in servicing the septic tanks.
Administration covers the estimated expense of general administration of



ANNEX 11
Page 3
SD, based on the experience of the City Administration and the requirements
of SD as a separate department. The items of expense in these two categories
exclude personnel costs, shown separately, and include allowance for price
increases at the inflation factor. Estimated management consulting fees
of M$110,000 annually for 1976 and 1977 are included in administration expense
for those years.
9.   Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line basis at composite
rates determined by using estimated service lives of 50 years for structures
and sewers, 15 years for stationary equipment, and 10 years for mobile
equipment. The composite rates, which are applied to gross fixed assets (ex-
cluding land) in service at the beginning of each year, decline gradually
from approximately 2.80% in 1976 to 2.55% in 1985 as the proportion of
longer-life property increases as a result of the construction program.
BALANCE SHEETS AND CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
10. Opening Balance Sheet
In the absence of accounts for the fixed assets devoted to sewer-
age service, the original cost of fixed assets at December 31, 1975 was
estimated by consultants on the basis of the capital expenditures for sewer-
age works in Kuala Lumpur through 1974 and the estimated expenditures for
1975. Accumulated depreciation was estimated on the basis of the expired
lives of the fixed assets, using the estimated service lives set forth in
para 9 for the various components. The gross fixed assets and the ac-
cumulated depreciation were revalued by the appraisal mission for the
opening balance sheet of SD at December 31, 1975 by increasing the figures
based on cost by the percentage changes in the Consumer Price Index for
West Malaysia from the time the expenditures for the properties were made.
The "Government Loans-Existing" shown in the opening balance sheet
consists of a remaining balance of M$22.2 million of loans made by Government
to the City since 1954 for the sewerage system now operated and an additional
amount of M$1 million assumed to be loaned for sewage treatment pilot plant
equipment and studies. The past loans bear interest at rates ranging from
5% to 6-1/2% and are repayable over various periods, of which the latest
ends in 1999; the new loan is assumed at 8-1/2% interest and repayable over
a 20-year period ending in 1995. In the opening balance sheet the amount
of net fixed assets and estimated materials inventory, less the balance of
Government loans, is the initial amount of City contributed capital.
11. Cash Account
It is assumed that SD will function from January 1, 1976 as a
self-accounting department with its own commercial accounting system and



ANNEX I 1
Page 4
a separate cash account into which its revenues will be deposited and from
which its expenditures will be paid. The cash account is to be maintained
at a level adequate to meet SD's capital and operating costs, assumed at about
30% to 35% of annual cash operating expense. It is assumed that until the
account becomes self-sustaining from SD's own internal cash generation, the
funds required will be provided by Government.
12. Capital Expenditures
Additions to fixed assets in the years 1976-1980 reflect the
projected capital expenditures for the project shown in the annual project
cost estimates (Annex 3) plus interest during construction on the loans to
finance the project. The non-project capital expenditures in the period
after 1980 are for additional extensions to the system included in Stage 2
of the Master Plan, projected at assumed 1980 price levels. The only other
non-project capital expenditures included in the projections are M$815,000
in 1976 for completion of construction of trunk sewers for which funds have
been committed by the City as contributed capital.
13. Current Items
Accounts receivable are estimated at approximately two-months'
net billings of sewage fees and septic tank servicing fees. Inventory is
estimated at one-half the annual amount of maintenance materials expense.
Accounts payable are projected at one-half month's cash operating expense.
14. Service Connections
The cost of connections to the reticulation system will, as in the
past, be paid by the property owner who will also pay for any plumbing in
the dwelling necessary for connection. Government has agreed to take appro-
priate measures to provide financial assistance to those householders faced
with financial difficulties in meeting such costs. Since the amount of
funds required for the purpose can be determined only by experience as the
system is extended, an assessment of the amounts required will be made when
the project is underway.
15. Project Financing
The projections reflect the following assumptions as to the
financing of the project:
(a) IBRD Loan
An IBRD loan of US$21.5 million (M$53.75 million equivalent)
will be made, repayable in 30 equal semi-annual installments of
principal and interest after a six-year grace period for repay-
ments of principal. The interest rate will be 8-1/2% and
commitment fee 3/4 of 1%. Bank disbursements (Annex 4) will
follow the capital expenditures on the project with a time lag



ANNEX 11
Page 5
of about six months. The loan is assumed to be effective in
the second quarter of calendar year 1976; the closing date will
be in the last quarter of 1981; and repayments on the loan will
commence in the second quarter of 1982.
(b) Government Loan
Government will relend the proceeds of the Bank loan to
the City on the same terms as those of the Bank loan. Govern-
ment loans will be made to the City in the additional amounts
needed to finance the project, less such amounts as SD is able
to generate internally for construction purposes. These loans,
estimated in the projections at a total of about M$87.6 million,
would be at 6% interest and repayable in 30 equal annual
installments after a grace period of six years from the first
disbursement for repayments of principal.
16. Stage 2 Financing
It is assumed that capital expenditures by SD beyond the project
construction period ending in 1980 will be financed by loans having the
same terms as the 6% loans made by Government to finance the project and
by such funds as SD is able to generate internally for construction purposes.
December 31, 1975



ANNEX 12
Page 1
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
Forecast Performance Indicators (1976-1982)
and Dates for Project Monitoring
The following indicators and target dates will assist in monitoring
the performance of the Sewerage Department, which will be requested to include
them in its reporting and to compare its achievements with the forecast.
A.   General and financial indicators.
Year ending December 31         1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Total Population (000)           810    838    867    897    928    960    994
Population Sewered (000)         213    216    226    254    378    436    488
% of Population Sewered         26      26     26      28     41      45      49
Number of Households
Sewered (000)                   38      39     41      47     70      81     92
Water Consumption -
Sewered Customers (IMg):
Domestic                     4,177  4,311  4,563  5,210  7,871  9,175 10,364
Per Capita                    54     55      55      56     57      58     58
Commercial                   1,738  1,814  1,944  2,179  2,468  2,615  2,726
Industrial                      52      54     57      63    293    320    405
Total Water Consumption   5,967  6,179  6,564  7,452 10,632 12,110 13,495
Operating Ratio (x)               40      42     43      36      39     43      39
Rate of Return (x)                12.1    9.6    8.8   10.0    7.9    7.1    8.0
Debt Service Covered-Times         2.0    1.6    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.3    1.2



ANNEX 12
Page 2
B.   Target dates for administrative and related matters.
Target month
Activity                          or calendar quarter
1.   Begin land acquisition (3.06)*                 I - 76
2.   Employ engineering and management              I - 76
consultants (3.08 and 5.10)
3.   City to take actions on staffing               January 1976
and training (5.08)
4.   Government and the City to establish           II - 76
a task force with regard to spatial
planning (3.19)
5.   Government to prepare program for              July 1977
implementing existing pollution
control legislation (3.16)
6.   Designate or create an agency responsible    July 1977
for sewerage in the State of Selangor
(3.18)
7.  Audit reports to be submitted to Bank           June of each year
(5.14)                                         beginning 1977
8.   City to review, modify and supplement          January 1978
existing sewerage by-laws (6.19)
9.   Prepare a 10-year spatial development          January 1978
plan and 5-year capital budget
(3.19)
*    Refers to paragraph in Appraisal Report.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
C.   Target dates for construction activities
Target Date
(Quarter and Year)
Contract documents
Item                       to Bank for review         Begin construction
Pantai sewers
Phase A                               III - 76                   IV - 76
Phase B                                II - 77                    I - 78
Phase C                                IV - 77                    I - 79
Pantai pump and treatment works              IV - 76                   II - 77
Bunus sewers                                II - 78                   III - 78
Bunus pumap and treatment works               I - 77                   IV - 77
Kerayong sewers                              IV - 77                   II - 78
Kerayong pump and treatment works            II - 77                   IV - 77
Puchong s;ewers                              II - 78                  III- 79
Puchong pump and treatment works              I - 78                    I - 79
December 31, 1975



MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
AND SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE DIVISION
(PRIOR TO ESTABLISHMENT OF SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT)
Ministry of Local Government and Environment
Mayor
Director General
Engineering Department
City Engineer
Mechanical Poc            l                     Imlmn  Projects
SenMorr sxoc tive Engineer 
Engineering nOperations                                                                                                   . 
Executive Engineer                                                                                Sewage Treatment
Works Manarrd ,
*                                                                                     *renizational ctu,es for these divinsare not h .  Operate Works
g  ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~ *                                                           * ~~~~~~~~~~Maintain Sewer,
|              |                                                                 * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Maintain Mech anical Plant
_  .            _                                                                *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Operate Laboratory
Sewerage                                    Drainage                .                                              Operating Administration
*Plan Future Development                      * Plan Future Development
*Implement Projects                           * Implement Projects
*Maintain Septic Tanks
*Monitor Household Plumbing
*Regulate Connections to Sewers                                                                                                                            Wd   ai-8i
*Organizational structures for these divsions are not shown.






MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
Ministry of Local Government and Environment
Mayor
Director General
Sewerage Departm'ent
Chief Engineer
Training                  Deputy Chief Engineer
Administration                    Accounting                     Planning and                      Construction                    Development                        Operations
Division                          Division                       Design Division                   Division                        Control Division                   Division
Administrative Officer             Senior Accountant                Senior Engineer                  Senior Engineer                  Senior Engineer                  Senior Chemist
* Construction Management                                           *  Operate System
* Accounting System            * Deveiopment Planning         * Construction Supervision       * Monitor Development Plans        *  Maintain System
* General Administration           0 Financial Statements         * Master Plan Review           * Mill Inspection                *Sanitary Installations            * Control Operations
* Personnel Administration        0 Financial Planning            * Design Criteria              * Progress Reports               *House Connections                 * Provide Desludging
* Office Supplies                      & Budgeting                * Materials Standards          * Material Test Reports          * Inspections                            Service
* Secretarial Services             * Payroll                      * Project Design               0 Soil Reports                   *Record Keeping                    *  Dispose of Night Soil
* Reproduction                     * Purchasing                   * Specifications               * 'As-Built" Plans               *Engineering Consultants           * Monitor Industrial
* Internal Audit                                              0 Engineering Consultants                     (Construction)              Waste Discharges
(Design)
* Other Departments in the City's Organizational Structure are not shown.
World Bank-9863(3R)






MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Year                     1976                                      1977                                    1978                                    1979                                      1980                           1981
Time in Months       1  2  3 14151 61 7 18  9 1o11|12 13 14|1S 16 17 18 19|20 21|22|2324 25 26 27 28 29031   32T33 34 3536 37138139140141 k2 431441458464748 49 bO|51 I52 531 54 58 98 87985980
1. Possess Land & R/W  ---------------   - -
Pantai Zone (No. 1
Sewers
2.          Phase A ........ ....*.l.l..* .I..II.I EI UI                                                                                                     EI    lull.
3.          Phase B- ...lillll.................... .*.l *l *l.l *l *l *11l                                                                                                     l*l*l*lUl*
4.           Phase C--------------- ..... .   ..Il.l.l.l.lll.                                                                                                           I*l**...*                              UM 1*11*11*1l
5. Pump & Treatment Works ......  ...............                                          -lll*l*fI                                                                lUll
Bunus Zone (No. 3)
6. Sewers                                                                                                              t .l.l. _         *****llEl  llElElElElEl l*l*l*lUl*
7. Pump & Treatment Works  ............   --------                                       lI                                    l.l. l.           l.l. l.        l*    l*    l*       l *Ill
Lower Kerayong Zone (No. 5)
8. Sewers-._ ............ *---------__ ..I...................
9. Pump&Treatment Works                                                              llIll                           El   IEIEIEIU IEIE*I*I*I*I*l*l*l  I
Puchong Zone (No. 6)
10. Sewers _ ---- _ ,,,,,.,,........l..                                                                                                                                                                                  *I-,-,-.
11. Pump & Treatment Works                                                   -,,                                         ,, ......  .......................l .*...i
LEGEND
z    ! ;   Sur90ev
Des gn
IlIIIIllIlIlIil  Preparaton of bill af qo..eities, specificatons -nd tender documents
U    t" " UU       Tender P.iad ftr constr.tcdo  contrr.t
| |-|-|-   Constr-et-o period                                                                                                                                                                      Wond Eank-5964/2RI






MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECTION OF POPULATION AND SELECTED UTILITY CHARACTERISTICS, 1970-90
1400  -                                    Water consumption of municipally   /21
1400                                       sewered population                /                            21
\/   :                         ~~~~~~~E
/ o/
0
1200                                                                                                      18     0
E
CD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
8100                                                                                                      15 2
'0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
600E
0      00
0 iO0 _                                                                                                          C,  /  _   s
T .oa  population, FT 
200                                                                                                      3      <
Stage I
construction       Stage I I
construction
0                       1                                                  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1970            1975             1980            1985             1990
Calendar Year
World Bank-98651RM






IRED 11643
10I30'                                  To              7                                             To      504 0,                                  To                                                             J~5                                             UNE 1975
Ro~~~~~ooog                                   Ro.oo~~~~~~~~~~~~~g                             S-mPo
1-~~~~~~~J 
I  -                                                  Stroll of ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,"               AMPS~~~~~t 
-- A                                                                                                E
East
Sg. Buish.~$
ORuNaI,
A     L      89         S
Poo., ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Kuooo 
N   I                                                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t\Ao LAY S LA,
CITY OF KUALA LUMPUR
KUALA LUMPUR SEWERAGE PROJECT
Leopo9 ~         -UprKrpn                                         Layout of Project and  Future Developmnent Plan
EXISTING   PROJECT  LATER ADDITIONS
-- ----                                                                                                     97~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~56-1981)   1900- 200$)
PS 10    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~         ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~ ~ ~                     --                             T-kn0030
I  Fj~~~~~~~1  Petal,ng j0                                                                                  A          A           A       Pump ng plants~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  A P,,,,,q i.t
L.J                                                                                                     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~Forc molts
ISgQWay/Subanag                                                                                                                                                               S-sugs t-tm-t wurks (STVVE
m                                                  Pu ng                                                    7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P oyo 00                          0
--Fr~dorol1% loro us oo-dnry
Study 000  buudory
Sg. B.si                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cun-orb oin b-nda,y
T,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Ouooo000Sloro
Clung ,u                             ~~SorasOoLor
----------- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$7cL-  ocer totopoo   by oebo
South-                                                                                                             -               ltano
L-we Sg. Kol.[-gMIE
lOtuS                                    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1035 7                               101410                           OIO                    bOAt                                              -  .0o001a7



