Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFm CIAL USE ONLY
Report No.6962
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 784-cM
October 12, 1987
Africa Regional Office
iTbi doenuent has a rercted dlsrbutlm  and may be _ed by recpints oly in the pedormance of
their offica dutis  t  sentt may not oherwe be dIsoCld without World Bank utbli*bton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = CFAF 245
CFAF 1 = US$0.0041
CFAF 1,000  =  US$4.1
CFAF 1,000,000 o   US$4,081.63
ABBREVIATIONS
BCU       Bottomlands Cultivation Unit (UCCAO)
Caisse    Coffee Price Stabilization Board
COOPMUT   Department of Cooperatives and Mutual Assistance
(Ministry of Agriculture)
DEP       Planning Unit - Ministry of Agriculture
DPA       Provincial Delegation of Agriculture, Western Province
FONADER   National Rural Credit Fund
FTDU      Field Trials and Demonstration Unit (UCCAO)
Genie
Rural    Rural World Department of Western Province
(Ministry of Agriculture)
IRAP      Agricultural and Forestry Research Institute
MIDEVIV   Fooderop Developmea't Agency (Ministry of Agriculture)
ONAREST   National Scientific Research Organization
PCU       Pest Control Unit (UCCAO)
PMEU      Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (DPA)
SPU       Seed Production Unit (UCCAO)
UCCAO     Arabica Coffee Growers' Cooperative Union, Western
Province
RMWA      Regional Mission in Western Africa
FISCAL YEAR
UCCAO - January 1 to December 31
Government - July 1 to June 30



THE WORltD BANKI
Wash.ton. D.C. 20433
US.A.
Office of sw.Css&I
Ope.fn Ivatai
October 1?, 1987
MEORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Cameroon Western Highlands
Rural Development Project (Credit 784-CM)
Attached, for information, is a copy oi a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Cameroon Western Highlands Rural Develop-
ment Project (Credit 784-CM)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office.
Under the modified system for project performance auditing, further
evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department
has not been made.
Attachment
lThis  ument has a rsttd distdbuion and my be usd by reciints 9.. ',t  th pformance
of their offWcial dutes 1w contt ma so thre be dsWcW withut Wol "A &utat.



MR OmUU ONLY
CAMEOON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 784-CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  *.  000   *00*   e.**o*,*.*.  *******
BASIC DATA SHEET ............................,...........,..               i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  *.........          ,..........................       iii
Is  INTRODUCTION                             .                                1
II.  PROJECT FORMULATION AND PROCESSING ..................2
A. Background and Project Origin .............................   2
B. Identification and Preparation 2.......................,...    2
C. Appraisal                                                            3
D. Negotiations and Board Presentation .......................   4
B. Project Description and Objectives                                   4
III* IMPLDMZNTATION .........................*6
A. Effectiveness and Start-up                                           6
B. Progress and Revision .....................                         6
C. Procurement ........................... .......            ....   7
D. Costs  7...*............... ......,    7
E. Financing ................................................   8
F. Disbursewtnt ........................ ......                         8
G. Project Closing . ..........................................    9
IV.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE *..... .........................              10
A. Institutional Deslgn                       ....                     10
B. Management and Organizational Effectiveness .......      ........  12
C. Covenants and Sectoral Development ......        ..................    15
D. Borrower's Performance                      ....                    15
V.   OPERATIONAL PERFORNANCE AND PROJECT INPACT ...................  15
A. Training and Extension ....................................  17
B. Field Trials and Demonstration                 .....   18
C. Seed Production .......                                             19
D. Pest Control   ...........................              .           21
E. Cooperative Service Centers                                         22
F. Revolving Credit Fund .                                             22
G. Village Water Supply  ....................................  23
Tbh documet ba aenstted disbutionsad may be ud by rcints only in th pfomace
of thi ofcl dutea Its otents may nototwis be disoed without Wold Bank utholtidn.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
Page No.
H. Bottomland Development .......... .       .........................    24
I. Coffee Processing ...................................................... .......    25
J. Crop Production ...................................                25
VI.  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE .......... .    29
A. Financial Results   ..............*....*........   ........... .    29
B. Economic Results ..........................                       30
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE/CONCLUSIONS .......... ......................  31
ANNEX (Tables I and 2)
Maps: IBRD 13072R
IBRD 13073R
IBRD 13821R (French)



CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 784-CM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report reviews the Western Highlands
Rural Development Project in Cameroon for which an IDA credit of US$13.0
million was approved on March 28, 1978. Although the official credit
closing date was June 30, 1983, it had to be extended by twelve months to
compensate for the start-up delays in establishing the Directorate of
Production within UCCAO, the executing agency. The final disbursemen.
under Credit 784-CM, for expenditures committed before July 1, 1984, was
made in October 1984.
This report was prepared upon the re turn of a completion mission
to Cameroon in February 1985. Additional sources of information included
the Western Highlands RDP Staff Appraisal Report No. 1780-CM of March 6,
1977, the Project and Credit Agreements of April 17, 1978, ten supervision
reports (1978-1984), the completion study prepared by UCCAO in January
1985, correspondence in the West Africa Information Center, and discussions
with staff associated with the project. This report's main conclusions
have been discussed with the Borrower.
A draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on July 22, 1987 for
comments; however, none have been received.
This project has not been subjected to an audit by OED.



- 1t -
CANEROON
WESTERN tGHIANDS RURAL DFVELOPPEKT
CRUD!? 784-CM
PROJECT CONPLETTeW RFPORT
BASIC DATA SPPFt
KEY PROJECT DATA                     Appraisal        Actual or       Actual as 2 of
Estimate   Estimated Actual  ADpratsal Estiaet
Project Costs (CFAF billion)               6.1            6.3              1352
Credit Amount (US$ million)               13.0       3  1Wf                1002
Date Board ApprtVal                                  3,2/06/8
Date Effectiveness                                 12/04/78
Closing Date                                           06/30/84
Economic Rate of Return                    20          n.a.
Number of Direct Beneficiaries (year) 30,200           40,000
farm families  farm families        1332
CUMULATIVE DISBURStEWMS
FY79   FY60   FY81   FY82   FY83  FVY4   FY85
Appraisal Estimate (USS million)   0.5    2.5    5.8    4.5   13.0         -      -
Actual (USS million)                 0.0    1.1    4.3    7.5   10.l   12.3   13.0
Actual as I of Estlate                0     44     74      79     78     95    100
Date of Final Disbursement           10/12/84
Principal Repaid                    NIL
MISSION DATA
No, of    Mandays   Specializations   P*rf.                Typ  of
Mission              Date    Persons   In Fitld   Represented I/  RatinR 21 t         o/d 1  Froblu   6/
Identification        /75       -          -           -               -          -
rreparation          4/76       -          -           _               _          _
Appraisal            5/77       6          -                              -       -          -
Supervision 1        7/78       1          6          d,e              1          2          1
Supervision 2        3/79       1          9          a,-              1          2          x
Supervision 3       10/79       2         10          ate              1          2          K
Supervision 4        3/80       2         10          a,d              1          2           9
Supervision 5       9/80        3         13          c.d,f            1          2          n
Supervision 6        3/81       3         12          a,b,d            2          2         HP?
Supervision 7       10/81       1          9          b                2          1         IIP
Supervision 8        6/82       2          6          b,c              2          1         Hp
Supervision 9       11/83       1         12          b                2          2         am
Supervision 10       7/84       2          9          b,c              2          2         P
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower            Governmwnt of Caeroon
Executing Agency   Union Centrale des Cooperatives Agricoles de l'Ouest (UCCAO)
Flscal Year         JanJary I to December 31
Name of Currency (abbreviation) CFAF
Curreacy Exchange Rates
Appraisal Year Average            US$1.00 a 24S
Intervening Years Average         US81.00 - 329
Completion Year Average           US$1.00 a 460
Follow-up Projectt
Name: Second Western Province Rural Development Project
Loan Number: Ln 2406-CM
Loan Amount: US$21.5 million
Date Board Approval,   64/1?/84
T/ a- agriculturist; b - apricultural economist; c - financial analyst;
d * economist; e - rural engineer; f - agronomist.
I/   problem-free or minor problems; 2 n  oterate problems and
3* spjor problems.
3/ 1- improving; 2 - stationary; and 3 a deteriorating.
Z F a financial; 1 a managerial; T * technical; P a political and 0 - other.



- iii -
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 784-CM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.        The Western Highlands Development Project was part of a larger
development program for the then Western and Northwestern provinces and the
first in a series of area development projects financed by the Bank and
other donors. It was in line with the objectives of the Government's
Fourth Development Plan (1977-81) for the agriculture sector, which aimed
at improving the standard of living of the rural poor and at reducing
income disparities. It also adopted the Bank's then emerging philosophy of
encouraging rural development rather than cash crop projects. In support
of the Government's program, the project was to provide an institutional
framework in extension, training, and improved seeds, fertilizer, insecti-
cide and credit distribution to about half of the farm holdings in the four
districts of the Western Highlands. To emphasize the integrated rural
development approach advocated by the Bank, it included pilot actions such
as afforestation, small ruminant husbandry, bottomland development and
field research on food crops. The "Union des Coop4ratives de Cafg Arabica
de l'Ouest" (UCCAO) was the executing agency.
Objectives
2.        The project's main objective was to intensify the cultivation of
all crops included in the prevailing farming system while introducing
measures to prevent the erosion and loss of soil fertility due to the
overpopulation of the area. To reach its objective, the project was to (a)
strengthen the Planning Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture and strengthen
and equip a new directorate of production services in UCCAO; (b) establish
a seed farm and construct 10 new rural service centers and 220 village
water points; (c) develop about 400 ha of bottomland; (d) introduce better
processing equipment; and (e) establish a training center, a monitoring and
evaluation unit, and a revolving credit fund. Total project costs were
estimated at US$25 million. The IDA credit was for US$13 million.
Implementation
3.        The first supervision mission (July 1978) was carried out before
Credit effectiveness due to delays in filling two key head positions and
because UCCAO did not ratify the Project Agreement until December 1978.
The slow start of the project has been attributed mainly to (a) MINAGRI's
reluctance in seconding staff to UCCAO, and (b) controversy over site
selection for the seed farm. These delays resulted in a one year lag at
the beginning of project implementation. In fact, little development
occurred before mid'1980 due to delays in the construction program and in



- iv -
provision of technical assistance caused by Government's cumbersome pro-
curement procedures. However, project implementation subsequently acceler-
ated and no major changes or revisions were neLessary. Most components
exceeded their appraisal targets, but only after the two project extensions
due to the long preparatory phase. The project closed in June 1984 with
115 disbursement applications showing a cost overrun of 35% over a six year
period instead of the five years anticipated at appraisal.
Results
4.        An interesting development under the project was that in the
context of unattractive coffee prices to producers, this crop was neglected
in favor of food crops production which registered a dramatic increase.
Extension records show an overall rate of completion of 85% in that the
project (a) reached 40,000 farmers instead of the 30,200 estimated at
appraisal; (b) developped 235 water points (220 envisaged); and (c) carried
out 36 demonstrations in soil conservation techniques against 7 planned at
appraisal. Shortfalls in fertilizer supplies and seed production were due
respectively to cumbersome procurement procedures and the imbroglio that
resulted from the farm site selection. Overall, the targets for the pilot
actions had been set at an overoptimistic level. The economic rate of
return to the project was estimated at 17% compared with 20% at appraisal.
Sustainability
5.        A second phase (Second Western Highlands Rural Development
Project--Loan 2?4)6-CM) became effective in September 1985 after a 14 month
gap.
Findings and Lesson;
6.        A major lesson learned from the project is that secondment of
staff from the public to the private sector (MINAGRI to UCCAi) to execute
projects can bring conflicts and lead to costly over-bureaucratization and
overlap, especially when production oriented activities are not kept
separate from Lommercial operations. Other lessons that can be learned
from the project are:
(a) the difficulty of addressing a key national policy issue in the
context of a regional project. Low coffee producer prices
(relatively and as a share of export price) made coffee relative-
ly unattractive;
(b) insufficient attention was paid to linking and conveying the
applied research unit findings (field trials and demonstrations)
to the extension service. This resulted in the latter not having
enough messages to convey to farmers, and extension did not
effectively convey farmers- priorities and problems to research;
and
(c) given the complexity of the technical iscues in this type of
project, regular visits by an agronomist are essential.



CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGLNDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Western Highlands area is densaly populated, i.e., 17% of
Cameroon's population lives in these humid mountains, which cover only 3%
of its land area. The resulting pressure on land resources has led to
intensive cultivation of nearly 95% of the cultivable land, including steep
slopes, which in turn has led to declining soil fertility and to erosion.
It is anticipated that a gradual emigration and resettlement in nearby,
under-populated areas will help to ease these problems. Meanwhile,
improvements in agricultural productivity must be attempted in situ.
1.02      Farm holdings in the project area are uniformly small, with only
20% exceeding 2 ba. The average family consisting of seven persons,
including three working adults, plants about 1.3 ha with perennial (mostly
coffee) and annual crops (maize, groundnuts) mostly in mixed stands. Women
are generally responsible for food crops and men for cash crops. The
farming system involves complex intercropping, with a large variety of
shrubs, trees and grass-type plants, all grown on the same ridge.
Customary cultivation rights are granted to male heads of families by the
traditional rulers. Land so granted is passed on from one generation to
the next.
1.03     Most farmers are members of cooperatives whose apex organization,
the 'Union des CoopOratives de Cafe Ar&bica de l'Ouest" (UCCAO) founded in
late 1973, has as its principal task the grading, processing and marketing
of arabica coffee. It also provides central engineering and workshop
services. Its major source of income is a 1% commission on coffee sales
and a pro-rata charge for coffee grading. Its operating policy is
formulated by a Board consisting of elected officials from member
cooperatives. In 1975, the Government asked the Bank for assistance in
financing a rural development project as part of a larger development in
the Western Highlands. Thus, the Bank prepared the project in
collaboration with UCCAO, the organization designated bv the Ministry of
Agriculture as the project executing agency. The project was appraised in
May-June 1977, became effective in late 1978, and was completed 'n
June 1984.



-2-
II. PROJECT FORMULATION AND PROCESSING
A. Background and Project Origin
2.01      The project was identified in the context of a declining growth
in agriculture from 5.3% per annum in 1966/1971 to 2.22 per annum in
1971/1976 due to low export prices for coffee and cocoa, production terms
of trade shifting from traditional export crops to food crops, and a
population growth rate of 2.3% coupled with a rural-urban migration which
put pressure on food supplies, especially in the urban areas. During
project formulation, the Government stressed coffee development and showed
little interest in a project that placed emphasis on food crop development,
as suggested by the Bank. It was only in late 1975/early 1976, after a
Bank reconnaissance mission, that the Government agreed to include food
crops in the project. A key element in this decision was the Government's
aim, as stated in the then new Fourth Development Plan (1977-1981), to
raise the standard of living of the rural poor and to reduce income
d'sparities. Due to the Western Highlands' high population density, low
incomes, and practice of intercropping cash and food crops on small plots,
it was decided that an integrated rural development project rather than a
coffee production project would better serve the interests of tle area and
the country. The emerging Bank philosophy of stressing rural development
projects rather than plantation cash crop projects was also a factor.
B. Identification and Preparation
2.02      An identification mission from RMWA visited the country in April
1976 and submitted its report on June 15 of that year. The project was
strongly biased toward food crop production and had as its main objectives
the reduction of income disparities and the improvement of income and
nutritional standards of the rural population, by encouraging a more
intensive use of the scarce land resources in the area. It was a classical
integrated rural development project with diverse components: extension,
training, seed production, and, as pilot actions, afforestation, small
animal husbandry, crop storage, bottomland development and field research
on food crops. These components, to be implemented in the Western
Province, were to reach about half of the farm population (40,000 holdings)
and to provide the institutional framework for the project. The main
issues raised were the following:
(a) the availability of proven technological packages tested at the
farm level;
(b) the possibility to produce seed by using contract growers within
the project area instead of a mechanized seed farm outside the
project, as proposed;
(c) the emergence of land tenure problems in bottomland development;



- 3 -
(d) the financial burden of a government subsidy policy for
fertilizer; and
(e) the iuestion whether "UCCAO can be induced to diversify into food
crops anu to participate in the financlng of such
diversification." 1 /
Each of these issues became a constraint or highlighted problems during
project implementation. A more appropriate wording for issue (e) wotld
have been "should UCCAO be induced to diversify into food crops?" Although
there were definite advantages for UCCAO's involvement, there were also
certain disadvantages, both requiring thorough investigation.
2.03      The preparation report closely followed the project
identification report. Most components remained unchanged, but the pilot
components became major components, i.e., In its final form the project
comprised 14 separate activities; six of them were to be contracted out to
the provincial services of "Genie Rural" (GR) and "Eaux et Forets" of
MINAGRI, to the Ministry of Livestock and to the "Institut des recherches
agricoles et foresti6res" (IRAF). UCCAO was confirmed as the overall
executing agency for the project.
C. Appraisal
2.04      The appraisal mission visited Cameroon in May 1977.  The
essential elements presented in the preparation report were maintained by
the appraisal team with the exception of the small livestock component.
The number and the diversity of these components were important issues at
the Decision Meeting on July 8, 1977.  Another major issue was whether the
new extension ande related agrlcultural support services firanced by the
project should be placed under UCCAO.  This in turn was linked to the
broader question of whether area-based development should be channelled
through existing, but strengthened, line ministries or through a regional
development authority. It was agreed at the Decision Meeting that creating
semi-autonomous regional development agencies was necessary in Cameroon at
that time but that "this policy would be kept under review and an
appropriate strategy devised in the longer term". 2/ The Yellow Cover
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was released on October 21, 1977, the Green
Cover on December 30, 1977, and the project was submitted to the Loan
Committee on January 4, 1978.
1/   IBRD, Project Brief on the Identification Report for Western Highlands
Agricultural Project, August 6, 1976, page 6, para 13 (a).
2/   IBRD, Decision Memorandum, August 3, 1977, page 2, para 8.



-4-
D. Negotiations and Board Presentation
2.05      Negotiations were held from January 31 through February 3, 1978.
Particular attention was paid to the two items below:
(a) producer prices for coffee--the IDA delegation stressed the
importance of setting coffee producer prices high enough to allow
producers a reasonable return; and
(b) small livestock component--the government delegation expressed
intereet in reinstating the small livestock component in the
project.
The small livestock component was dropped from the project as it was
decided during appraisal to integrate it in the Second Livestock Project
which was appraised later in the same year. On the issue of producer
prices, the Government stated that this aspect should be addressed in the
context of a national pricing policy rather than in a regional development
project. It nevertheless assured the Bank that it would periodically
review producer prices and, if needed, adjust them to maintain rroducer
incentives. The Board approved the credit on March 28, 1978.
E. Project Description and Objectives 3/
2.06      The project was part of a program for the development of the
overpopulated Western Highlands. For social reasons, improvements in
agricultural productivity in situ rather than resettlement projects were
required to reduce population pressure on soil fertility. The major
objective of the project was to provide for the development of
institutions, procedures, and techniques to improve agricultural production
and the standard of living of the many small farmers in the project area.
The system of multiple intercropping ruled out development initiatives
based on a single crop. The project was thus designed to intensify the
cultivation of all crops included in the prevailing farming system and to
devise measures to prevent erosion and loss of soil fertility. Apart from
increasing crop production and soil fertility, the project aimed at
reversing the trend of declining coffee production.
2.07      The four-year project had nine components:
(a) the strengthening and equipment of a new Directorate of
Production Services within UCCAO to be responsible for extension,
plant protection, seed production, training, and field trials and
demonstrations;
3/   IBRD Staff Appraisal Report, March 6, 1977, page 5, para 3.01.



- 5 -
(b) the establishment of a training center for technical staff;
(c) the construction of 10 new rural service centers;
(d) the opening of a revolving credit fund for seasonal inputs and
tools;
(e) the construction of about 220 village water points;
(f) the development of about 400 ha of uncultivated bottomlands;
(g) the introduction of better coffee processing equipment;
(h) the establishment of a project monitoring and evaluation unit;
and
(i) the st;rengthening of the Planning Unit in MINAGRI.



-6-
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Effectiveness and Start-up
3.01      At the time of the first supervision mission in July/August 1978,
the project was still not effective because, first, the positions of
Director of Production Services (an expatriate) and Chief of the Extension
Division (a Cameroonian) had not been filled, and second, the Project
Agreement had not been ratified by UCCAO's Board of Directors. These two
conditions were met by the end of the year and the project became effective
on December 8, 1978.
3.02      The project started slowly and, therefore, the implementation of
several key components was delayed, in particular the production-related
activities. Although the first supervision mission aimed at facilitating
project start-up, two major factors were beyond its control. The most
critical one was the difficulty in filling key Cameroonian positions. In
spite of the Bunk's considerable concern in filling these postions quickly,
the procedures for seconding personnel from MINAGRI to UCCAO were more
cumbersome than anticipated, and it was not until mid-1980, 18 months after
effectiveness, that these positions were filled. The other major delay was
in the selection of a site for the seed production farm (para 5.08).
Therefore, the start-up of the project, estimated at appraisal to take from
10 to 12 months, took nearly 18 months, with the result that many
components lagged one year and disbursements did not start until 1980.
B. Progress and Revisions
3.03      The project, originally planned over four years-an overly
optimistic estimate for an institutionally complex project--closed in June
1984 after two extensions, and five and a half years after effectiveness.
No major changes or revisions were made in the project components and at
closing date some of the components had in physical terms realized or
exceeded their appraisal targets while others had not. The key indicators
of physical development in the final supervision mission report of
August 9, 1984 are given in the annex (Table 1). Although little physical
development was accomplished until mid-1980, implementation accelerated in
the following years. However, while a four year period was perhaps
reasonable for implementing the various components once the projec" had
"geared up", it was certainly not sufficient to cover both the prt1?aratory
phase and the execution phase.
3.04      The delays in the project construction program were caused to a
large extent by the lengthy government process of reviewing and awarding
contracts. This was to have been the responsibility of UCCAO, but in 1980
a new government policy required that all contracts be cleared by the
Central Procurement Commission. This and other constraints resulted in the
completion of the training center in 1982 instead of 1978. The difficulty
in finding and deciding on a suitable site and the inexperience of local



contractors exacerbated the delays. The seed farm was finished in 1981
instead of 1978/79 after experiencing major problems in site selection.
The housing for experts in Bafoussam originally planned to be finished by
end PYI was completed in late PY3 (1980).
C.   Procurement
3.05      The Project Agreement stipulates ICB for all contracts worth more
than US$100,000 equivalent (for coffee processing factory and seed farm
equipment, vehicles and heavy equipment). The entire package was estimated
at about US$3.2 million equivalent. Contracts for project technical
assistance were to be contracted under limited international tendering for
an amount not exceeding US$2.1 million. The total amount of US$5.3 million
was contracted under ICB without noteworthy procurement problems.
3.06      However, due to the centralisation of procurement in Yaoundg and
inadequate preparation, the first tenders for vehicles, equipment and
technical assistance were delayed and published only in April 1979, i.e.,
one year after the credit signing date. The expatriate personnel and the
vehicles and equipment arrived in end-1979, thereby delaying project
implementation by one year. The second and third tenders for vehicles and
equipment, undertaken in PY3, were properly carried out.
D.   Costs
3.07      Cost to completion was CFAF 8,268 million (Annex, Table 2),
including some investment to prepare the Second Project. In absolute CFAF
terms the project represents a 35% cost overrun. A comparison in U.S.
dollar terms would be meaningless given the more than 100% appreciation of
the dollar. An exact assessment as to whether the project reached its
goals is difficult; therefore, it would also be highly arbitrary to
calculate cost over/underrun. Nevertheless, the following may indicate a
trend. The US$13.0 million credit converted at the exchange rate of CFAF
245/US$1 prevailing at project negotiations amounts to CFAF 3,185 million;
converted at the average exchange rate of CFAF 329/US$1, prevailing during
project implementation, it amounts to CFAF 4,277 million. This implies
that if costs at appraisal had been correct, the project would have spent
only US$9.7 million of the US$13 million credit.
3.08      Project overspending can be attributed mainly to (a) UCCAO's
headquarters (130% overrun); (b) UCCAO's commercial services (62%); and (c)
the seed multiplication farm (20%). Another factor is the cost of
technical assistance (US$3.2 million at project completion, i.e., about 40%
above appraisal costs) due to the extension of contracts. Conversely, the
project underspent approximately 43% in monitoring and evaluation.
3.09      UCCAO's projec: accounting system is not sufficiently developed
to indicate true costs. Therefore, the real cost of each component may
vary because the operatir.g overhead has not been allocated to components.



-8-
E.   Financing
3.10      The adjusted (net of commercial services costs) financing
percentages of the SAR compared with the actual percentages are as follows:
SAR                  Actual
Government                22                     26
IDA                       67                    66
UCCAO                     11                      8
The Government's contribution to project costs covers local salary payments
as well as the cost of incremental insecticides and pesticides (procured
through FONADER). Domestic inflation has risen more rapidly than
international inflation and, based on the dollar appreciation, the foreign
exchange component originally estimated at 67% may have actually slipped to
about 55%. Moreover, due to this appreciation, the dollar denominated
funds sufficed to finance nearly six project years instead of four.
3.11      In the first project year, government funding was insufficient to
keep the project going without making use of short-term bank overdrafts.
This was due to the absence of IDA reimbursements during these years, as
the credit was not yet effective. Also, the initial reimbursement
applications took an inordinate length of time to be approved by the
Ministry of Finance in Yaound6 (para 3.12). However, once the first
reimbursement reached the project, cash flow problems disappeared.
Although cost control was relatively good, the project never really
mastered the establishment of quarterly cash flow forecasts.
F.   Disbursements
3.12      Whereas the SAR estimated that the full credit (US$13.0 million)
would be disbursed over five years (four-year project period), it was
disbursed over six years. The first disbursement took place only in
October 1979, i.e., 1-1/2 years after signature of the Credit Agreement;
the 115 applications were presented to the Bank over a 4-1/2 year period.
The initial delay was due to a lack of experience in preparing withdrawal
applications at UCCAO's level and to the excessive documentation required
by the External Debt Department of the Ministry of Finance. An additional
factor was the relative remoteness of Bafoussam and the wholly inadequate
communication system with Yaounde. These factors contributed to a lag of
over one year in the reception of the first application in Washington, and
the average process time of an application from UCCAO to the Bank was six
months. The average application received amounted to US$113,000 which is
well above the presently recommended Bank minimum amount of US$20,000. As
is the case in most Cameroonian projects, preparation costs per
disbursement application were extremely high due to the Ministry of
Finance's requirement for complete documentation. This problem still
exists.



-9-
G.   Reporting
3.13      The Project Agreement between UCCAO and IDA obligated the project
to provide audited annual accounts six months after the end of each fiscal
year. Quarterly and annual progress reports as well as budnets and work
programs were not required to be submitted to IDA under the Agreement.
However, UCCAO faithfully submitted budgets, work programs, quarterly and
annual progress reports throughout the period. Audited accounts were
consistently submitted with up to one year delay and are still awaited for
the last project year. This suggests a weakness in the finance/accounting
department since it cannot closely control project expenditures.
H.   Project Closing
3.14      The project completion date was to be December 1982 with a credit
closing date of June 30, 1983. However, the absence of agreement between
the bank and the Government on input subsidy and interest rate policy led
to a substantial delay in negotiating the Second Project. The closing date
was formally extended to June 30, 1984, with disbursements continuing until
October 1984 (for expenditures committed before July 1, 1984). Despite
this extension, the project suffered a hiatus as the loan for the Second
Project was signed in June 1984 and did not become effective until
September 9, 1985. This rather lengthy period between the closing date of
the project and the effectiveness date of the Second Project adversely
affected the morale of project staff.



- 10 -
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A. Institutional Design
4.01      The first step in project formulation appears to have been
identification of actions that would either help to remove technical
constraints in development or take advantage of untapped potential in the
area; the second step was then to find the institutional structure within
which these actions could be successfully implemented. UCCAO was, and
still is, a successful coffee marketing organization representing the
arabica coffee producing cooperatives in the Western Province. Moreover,
it was, and still is, the only body of any size and importance in the
agricultural sector in the area with the support and confidence of more
than 75% of the farming population. Thus, it naturally became the initial
institutional focus in project formulation. The idea of using UCCAO as the
project executing agency derived from government policy of, on the one
hand, using existing organizations whenever possible and, on the other,
managing development projects through regional development authorities.
4.02      Some project activities were directly linked to the operations
and goals of UCCAO and its cooperative unions-i.e., improvement of coffee
yields and production, provision of inputs such as fertilizers and
pesticides, improvement of coffee quality and of the efficiency of coffee
processing and marketing. The strengthening of UCCAO's capacity in these
areas was to directly benefit its members and increase coffee revenues, and
to reinforce its existing services. However, some project activities (an
integrated crop extension service, provision of maize and other food crop,
seeds and demonstration programs) were, and still are, debatable in terms
of their complementarity with UCCAO. As all UCCAO's farmers grow not only
coffee but also food crops and as the latter are often interplanted with
coffee, it could be argued that a multiple crop extension service is not
only useful to the coffee farmers, but also unavoidable. Whether this
should logically have been placed within UCCAO's organizational structure
is another question. The justification for having seed production and
field research activities in UCCAO follows the same line of argument but is
somewhat extenuated. Certain activities envisaged under the project
(bottomland development and village water supply) had very little to do
with the UCCAO's activities or management structure; both were
subcontracted to "GEnie Rural" with UCCAO providing only coordination.
4.03      There were two options available at project formulation.  The
first option was to use UCCAO as the organization in which to build a
regional development capability. This was in line with the Government's
policy of overcoming the persistent ineffectiveness of MINAGRI's field
services. UCCAO had the advantage of being already in place and
efficiently managed, of having farmer support and good financial control,
and of covering through its cooperatives 80% of the farmers in the area.
The most serious risk was that by loading it with too many diverse
activities it might lose its efficiency as a ccffee marketing organization
and not necessarily become an effective regional development body. There



- 11 -
was also the question of what would happen to UCCAO as a regional
development authority after project completion. Who would finance the
ongoing services and activities that were not directly related to coffee
and thus could not justifiably be financed from coffee margins? Where
would be the motivation for a coffee marketing body to continue with
regional development activities that did little to help improve its cash
flow? Another risk was the inherent conflict between a profit oriented
coffee marketing body and the broad objectives of ie regional development
body. This risk was largely negated by the Government's direct payments to
UCCAO for salaries and operations of extension and associated services;
however, reductions in future funding could increase UCCAO's operating
costs,
4.04      The second option was to rely on the line ministries (i.e., their
provincial field services) to execute those components that fell under
their purview, with UCCAO being responsible for cooperative and coffee
related components and with a project planning and coordination unit which,
over the life of the project, was to become a provincial unit responsible
for planning and coordinating development activities and projects in the
Western Province. Possible advantages of this approach would have been (a)
that the implementation capacity would have been built into the line
ministries; this would have helped to avoid the duplication of services,
thus permiting a closer integration of national development objectives and
programs and facilitating the transfer of technical know-how to other
provinces; and (b) that while the continued provision of financial support
at the end of the project would not have been guaranteed under this
arrangement, at least by using line ministries a budget mechanism would
have been in place that could have facilitated, with the right pressures
and priorities, the channelling of government and other funds. However,
there was one over-riding disadvantage: the traditional government services
in the Province, and elsewhere in the country, had a record of being
extremely weak and generally lacked operating and capital budgets. As this
was seen as a structural problem that could not be changed, without
jeopardizing the successful execution of the project, it was decided that
UCCAO was the safest institution for executing the project.
4.05      The key to project implementation was the setting up of a new
four-unit Directorate of Production Services in UCCAO, i.e., Extension
Division, Pest Control Unit, Seed Production Unit, and Training and
Publicity Unit. This was to be the core of the project and the prime means
of achieving the proposed production increases in coffee and food crops.
By drawing personnel from existing government services, particularly from
the Provincial Delegation of Agriculture where the majority of extension
staff were to be recruited, the project intended to build up a field
production support service to operate within UCCAO. Over the five and a
half years of the project, most recruitment had taken place but not without
considerable friction, especially with the Delegate of Agriculture who
strongly resisted the transfer of his staff to UCCAO. The compromise on
agricultural support services was that the "moniteurs agricoles" up to the
"Chef de Secteur" would come under UCCAO while the positions of "Poste
Agricole Principal" (PAP) would stay within the Delegation. In spite of an



- 12 -
agreement in principle at higher levels, at the provincial level the
Delegation of Agriculture never accepted the arrangement and even as late
as December 1982 it was reported 4/ that efforts to formalize this
arrangement led to a political imbroglio with the risk that the hrovince
could end up with a double extension service at the district level. This
conflict was not adequately resolved during the project period. The Second
Project attempts to diffuse this issue by requesting, once again, that
MINAGRI clearly state the sharing of responsibility for extension service
activities in the Western Province. Accordingly, the Ministry stated, as a
condition of effectiveness, UTCCAO's technical and organizational
responsibilities for the extension service in the project area.
B. Management and Organizational Effectiveness
4.06      While the effectiveness of the project in terms of strengthening
UCCAO overall management is difficult to assess, it is clear that a
capacity was built within UCCAO to handle implementation of a number of
development actions and services. It is less clear whetler UCCAO developed
its capacity to carry out the broader planning and coordination of
development, even agricultural development, in the region--a normal
responsibility for a regional development authority, but a responsibility
that was not explicitly given to UCCAO under the project and one that would
probably have been better placed under the Ministry of Economic Planning
and Industry (MEPID). If MEPID's provincial office had been able to
fulfill this role, there would have been no need for UCCAO to build this
capacity. In fact, it might have been logical during project formulation to
have included funds to strengthen MEPID's provincial planning and
coordination capacity as was the case in the Bank-financed Northern
Province Rural Project.
4.07       Project design had limited effect on UCCAO's traditional
activity of coffee processing and marketing and even less on the activities
and operations of member cooperatives. These two areas were intentionally
neglected during project formulation in order to avoid complicating an
already complex project. They have both been taken into account in the
Second Project through the financing of warehouses and coffee
sorting-machines, short-term consultancy in coffee processing, and an
organization and management study (MCS). 5/ The MCS study made detailed
recommendations for improving the management and accounting systems, on a
union-by-union basis, and proposed ways for the cooperatives and UCCAO to
improve their storage, transport and handling of coffee. The
4/   IBRD, Supervision/Back-to-Office Report, December 21, 1982, para 13.
5/   AFC - Rapports de la mission MCS, April & December, 1982.  A study
covering marketing system for coffee, input supplies, credit,
management, personnel, structure and strategy.



- 13 -
implementation of these results started in the final year of the project;
recommendations will, however, be followed up in the Second Project. The
Executive Controller studied the operations of the individual unions and
made recommendations for improvement in their functioning, but as his main
responsibility was to "refine UCCAO's accounting systems by developing
analytical accounting tools and procedures," 6/ only a limited amount of
his time could be spent on this activity.  Therefore, although there were
definite recommendations on how to improve the functioning of the
cooperatives and the operation of the coffee marketing system (some of them
had begun to be impleme-ated by the end of the project), most of the
cooperative support was intended to be provided under the Second Project.
4.08      A review of the effectiveness of the project in terms of UCCAO's
financial management performance shows that considerable piogress was made
on the financial and accounting sides.   An excellent Director of Finance
(Cameroonian) was recruited during the project and marked improvements were
made especially in liquidity management. The accounts were kept current
and financial information was readily available. In contrast, little
progress was made in improving UCCAO management performance which, in epite
of its good reputation was, and still is, run without any real management
system; the Director General takes most of the dLcisions alone. To further
exacerbate the situation, there was no deputy director for most of the
project period. Thus, on those frequent occasions when the Director
General was away on mission, either decisions were not taken or, as was
often the case, the expatriate Director of Production Services, who was
also responsible for project procurement, filled in, to the detriment of
his own responsibilities. UCCAO remains a relatively efficient cooperative
apex organization, primarily charged with coffee marketing; it has also
built a certain management capacity while running extension, seed
production and, Indirectly, bottomland and water development.
4.09      Coordination and liaison with outside agencies and other
development projects and activities are aspects of institutional
performance where the project experienced some difficulties. This might
have been expected, first, because the project was set up within UCCAO, an
established organization with an independent mode of operation and limited
links to other bodies; second, because the institutional design of the
project, while ensuring that UCCAO would to an extent fulfill the role of a
regional development authority, made no allowance or provision for planning
or coordination as an operating part of the management structure. A
"Comite de Coordination" chaired by the Governor and comprising the heads
of key provincial agencies was established and met quarterly as necessary.
6/   IBRD Staff Appraisal Report, Op. cit., Annex 2, Appendix 1.



- 14 -
While these meetings provided a forum for UCCAO to keep the provincial
authorities informed and for the authorities to express their desires and
grievances, it could not, and should not, replace a formal planning
process.
4.10      Extension.  As no reliable data about the MINAGRI extension
service prior to the project were available, there was no discussion on its
strengths and weaknesses or on how the existing institutional arrangements
affected its operation. It appears to have been taken for granted that the
extension service would be best managed and run under UCCAO. Thtis may have
been a valid assumption, and in fact, the training given to extension staff
and the support provided by the project's technical assistance team was
successful in building up an efficient agricultural extension service. By
the end of the project, a regular schedule of visits and reporting had been
established and extension workers had a series of themes to pass on to
farmers and farmer groups in their areas.
4.11      Seed Production Unit.  An independent unit reporting to the
Director of Production Services was established at Bafole, about 60 km from
Bafoussam. As stated in the SAR, the unit was to be assessed in PY4 to
determine if it could become an autonomous commercial enterprise. The
management of the seed farm, which had been entrusted to an internationally
recruited expert (seed agronomist) from its inception, did not experience
any significant difficulties apart from delays in installing the seed
processing equipment and keeping a proper cost control of operations. The
major problems concerned technical design, the physical properties of the
site, and the economics of the operation (Sections V and VII).
4.12      Although difficult to determine at this stage, the institutional
arrangements for pest control appear not to have been thought of at
appraisal; in fact there is only a passing reference to the component in
the SAR. The unit, to be created within UCCAO, was to have two bases
(Dschang and Foumbot) and to draw from the present unit in MINAGRI, in a
way similar to the extension service. This move was strongly resisted by
the Provincial Delegate of Agriculture who wanted to keep the pest control
unit within MINAGRI, his argument being that the service was intended to
serve all crops and all farmers in the Province, not only UCCAO members.
The pest control unit ("Service de Lutte Phytosanitaire") remained in
MINAGRI throughout the project (para 5.12).
4.13      Village Water Supply and Bottomland Development.  These
activities were the responsibility of "Genie Rural", with UCCAO
coordinating the planning and pre-financing the works. Two new units had
to be created within GR and, after a slow start particularly in bottomland
development, they performed well. The delay in the bottomland development
component (about one year) can be largely attributed to the selection of an
incompetent head for the unit, who was replaced In 1980. UCCAO major
direct involvement was through the extension service which provided
technical support to farmers in the bottomland area. Indirectly, by
providing project finances, UCCAO gained some measure of control.



- 15 -
C.   Covenants and Sectoral Development
4.14      The project was reasonably efficient in meeting legal covenants
as negotiated between the Government and IDA. The one covenant that was
not met during the project--submission of audited accounts within six
months of the end of the fiscal year--was beyond the direct control of the
project, since UCCAO audits the accounts of six cooperatives along with its
own.  To achieve this task within six months ftom the end of einch fiscal
year is somewhat unrealistic. What should have been realized is a separate
opinion on the status of the project accounts at the beginning of the joint
audits, so as to ensure the timely delivery of the report to the Bank.
4.15      Coffee production in Cameroon steadily increased until 1981,
reaching 105,000 tons, or about 2.4% of the world market. In the following
years, production fell substantially due to a drought that lasted several
years. Approximately half of Cameroon's production comes from the Western
Province where farmers produce mostly arabica; thus the Province accounts
for about 90% of total arabica and about 30% of total robusta production.
Producer prices are reviewed and set annually by the Government. During
the entire project, this pricing mechanism proved to be insufficiently
flexible to keep farmer incentives alive so as to compete with the
increasing demand for food crops (mainly maize) whose prices were set by
free market forces. Consequently, the major sectoral development during
project implementation was a gradual shift from perennial to annual crops.
This undoubtedly accounts for the shortfall of coffee production when
compared with SAR targets.
D.   Borrower Performance
4.16      Three key points, all directly traceable to policy issues, are
responsible for the project failure at not fully reaching its objectives:
(a) arabica producer price levels (para 5.22); (b) subsidization and
distrlhution of inputs (para 5.12); and (c) the centralized procurement of
project specific contracts for services and goods (para 3.06). The
Ministry of Agriculture has recently commissioned a study on producer
prices for arabica coffee, as the Government has realized that price levels
paid to producers are not sufficiently remunerative to stimulate
production. The results of this study will undoubtedly lead to an upward
revision of prices which will, hopefully, rekindle the interest of
planters. Under the Second Project the Government has agreed to
decentralize the ordering of agricultural inputs and to let UCCAO handle
the determination of quantities, qualities and time of procurement. Given
the substantive quantities involved, however, the tendering will still have
to pass through the Central Procurement Directorate in Yaoundg. This
procedure represents a considerable improvement over the past and, to the
extent that UCCAO prepares the tenders sufficiently in advance to permit
timely arrival, a major bottleneck of the project will have been removed.
4.17      The input subsidization and distribution issue is the focus of
ongoing discussions between -he Government and the Bank on the agricultural



- 16 -
sector. More time is required to convince politically minded government
officials that subsidization of agricultural inputs leads to waste. In any
case, the problem of procurement is to some degree faced by all Bank
Group-financed operations in Cameroon. Nevertheless, by careful planning
and compliance with Bank procurement guidelines, the two activities can be
carried out satisfactorily, as demonstrated during the latter years of
project implementation.



- 17 -
V. OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE AND PROJECT IMPACT
A.   Training and Extension
5.01      The performance of the training program far exceeded the SAR
target, although the training facilities (classrooms, dormitory, cafeteria)
to be financed under the project were not available until the end of the
project (para 5.02). Rental of facilities by UCCAO allowed the training to
be carried out more or less as planned. Instead of the 750 man-months of
training forecast, about 1,800 man-months were provided in the four-year
period, reaching over 2,500 man-months by project completion. 7/ Most of
the training was for recruits who were to fill the positions of "moniteurs
agricoles" (65%); the remainder was divided between training supervisory
extension staff, farmer leaders, cooperative officers, and refresher
courses for extension staff. These four-month courses focused on subjects
such as cultural techniques for the major crops grown in the area, zonal
ecology including erosion prevention, methods of interaction with farmers,
and the principles and operations of the Training and Visit (T and V)
system. The result of the training peogram in terms of extension staff
placed in the field was also in excess of the appraisal estimates: 784
"moniteurs agricoles" versus 378, and 515 supervisory personnel
versus 295. 8/ The expanded number of personnel trained permitted the
project to introduce the T and V system into five departments instead of
three, as originally planned.
5.02      The 30-person training center provided by the project was
intended to be operational by the end of the first year, at which time the
courses were scheduled to start. The reasons for the four year delay are
discussed briefly in para 3.04. However, looking in longer terms, more
important than the delay in construction was the selection of the site in a
residential section of Bafoussam. While it is argued by UCCAO that it is a
good location because of its ready access to the UCCAO offices and
facilities in town, more relevant is the fact that the center of town
distracts students and takes away from the group rapport that should
develop among them. Another and more serious drawback is the lack of an
adjoining area where field trials and demonstrations can be carried out and
incorporated into the training curriculum--an essential element in the
training of extension staff. A much more suitable site would have been at
the nearby research station where ample land was said ta be available and
where the center would have benefited from exchanges with the research
staff and their programs. Considering the time it took to select the
present site, there would appear to be no logical justification for not
selecting a more appropriate location.
7/   UCCAO, Completion Study, Op. cit., Table 2.
8/   Ibid., Tableau 1.



- 18 -
5.03      It was planned during project formulation that the project
extension service would reach 30,000 farm families by full development
(PY4), i.e., about half of the farmers in the Province. Although it is
difficult to get an accurate estimate of the number of farmers reached by
the project without an agricultural census, detailed records were kept of
extension contacts--with individuals and with groups--whose figures
indicate an increase from 16,300 at the end of PY4 to 30,000 in PY5 and to
almost 40,000 by project completion; thus the SAR target has been met.  In
terms of the ratio of farmers per extension worker, the estimation was
410:1 against 400:1 planned.
5.04      The ability to determine the performance and to separate the
impact of the extension service on production is very difficult because of
the influence of other factors (paras 5.19 to 5.22). Nevertheless, a
survey carried out from January to March 1984 by the project monitoring
unit indicates how well the service performed in the eyes of the farmers.
This survey, which covered 739 farmers (a 2.4% sample) within the project
area, shows that although the extension service was well received and had
good penetration it had problems with its messages: whereas in the first
year of an extension agent's work meetings were well attended (68% on
average) and many themes were deemed useful (70%), by the fourth year the
attendance had dropped to 52% and the perceatage of themes judged useful
had fallen to 26%. This is to a large extent indicative of the fear
expressed prior to appraisal (para 2.02(a)), i.e., a lack of suitable
packages and messages to extend. It also reflects the difficulties
encountered by the farmers in getting inputs, such as fertilizers,
recommended by the extension agents. Not only did the farmers become
disinterested in hearing the same themes, but the motivation of the
extension workers declined along with the unavailability of agricultural
inputs.
B.   Field Trials and Demonstrations
5 05      The performance of this component was mixed.  The component
comprised three separate activities, one being adaptive research and the
other two being oriented toward improving the environment. The first
program was reported in the UCCAO completion study as not responding in
general to the needs of the project. The "Institut de Recherche
Agronomique" (IRA), entrusted with research, is oriented toward pure
single-crop rese-,rch and, consequently, while its recommendations for
improvement in coffee were positive, little useful information was produced
on food crops, especially in terms of mixed culture (either food crop with
other crops or food crops with cash crops, such as coffee). At appraisal,
particularly in light of IRA's background, consideration might have been
given to establishing a separate unit as a link between research and
extension, i.e., a unit that would have drawn on research findings,
developed a feedback system to elicit farmers opinions and set up trials
and demonstrations at farm level with the participation of extension
workers and farmers. As it was, the extension service had too few aieuspges
to extend.



- 19 -
5.06      The second program (demonstrations) set up by the trials and
demonstrations service to illustrate erosion control measures was highly
successful. By selecting responsive farmers, the service set up erosion
control measures on the si es, normally on steep slopes, with farmers being
responsible for providing the labor and maintenance for the schemes. In
fact, the farmers implemented the improvements themselves by stabilizing
bunds, ridging contour and hedge rows under the guidance of the service on
part of their holdings. These farmers who acted as catalysts within their
communities were, and still are, paid a nominal fee by UCCAO to fulfill
this role. In total, 36 of these demonstrations were set up in the project
area over the five and a half year implementation period--more than five
times the original target of seven. As over 80% of the land farmed in the
Province Is on steep slopes and erosion continues to be the main problem,
this program potentially has a considerable impact.
5.07      Although the third program within this component (afforestation)
established 460 ha of new forest, as compared with 450 originally foreseen,
problems were experienced with the concept as presented in the SAR, which
was the reforestation of bare hilltops subject to heavy erosion that in
most cases had been abandoned by farmers. The approach, which aimed at
stabilizing the ecology of the area, ran into difficulties because the
local villagers who supplied the labor to plant the seedlings left the area
shortly thereafter and, consequently, did not maintain the plantations.
About 107 ha were planted by PY2 in Bangou and Bamendou (two of the areas
experiencing the most serious erosion problems), 123 ha by the end of PY3,
164 ha in PY4 and 200 ha in the final year. About 60 ha were destroyed by
fire after the drought of 1983. It was observed during the later stage of
implementation 9/ that, in spite of these problems, the plantings were
well established, particularly considering the small team used to execute
the program. During the final year of project implementation, the original
approach of establishing plantations on public land was abandoned and a new
approach adopted whereby assistance was given only to individuals or groups
willing to establish plantations on their own land and maintain them. As
this stage, it appears that farmers' response to this change in approach is
positive as they tend to maintain the bunds and ridging contours necessary
initially to prevent erosion more regularly on their own land.
C.   Seed Production
5.08      The original site proposed was located about 30 miles north of
Foumbot in the department of Bamoun and met the main criteria set out in
the SAR: a large enough area (500 ha), good soils, sufficient rainfall,
relatively flat terrain, easy access to labour and proximity to a research
establislhment. In early PYI, the site had been committed for a
9/   IBRD, Back-to-Office Report, April 28, 1984.



- 20 -
tomato-maize scheme. At the end of PY1, a less suitable site on long-term
tenancy from the local sultan was found, but the soils tended to waterlog
and were low in fertility, thus requiring more fertilizer. However, it was
only 7 km from the main road, closer to Bafciussam and easily connected to
the electricity grid. Work started in early PY2 with the first 25 ha sown
in April of that year,
5.09      Cultivation expanded from the 25 ha in PY2 to 180 ha in PY3, 200
ha in PY4 and 220 ha in PY5. Seed production was well organized and
yields were higher than projected in the SAR. 10/ Maize, for example,
which occupied about two-thirds of the farm, averaged 3.8 t/ha with a high
of 4.4 t/ha in PY5 compared with the original target of 2.8 t/ha. Maize
production increased from 358 t in PY3 to 590 t in PY5; however, the annual
amounts of seeds for distribution were considerably lower, ranging from 150
t (PY3) to 200 t (PYS). The farm also produced seeds of soya beans,
groundnuts, beans and potatoes 11/ but in smaller quantities. Since PY2,
maize supply has by far exceeded demand which caused the seed farm to sell
it at a low price, much of it being used for home consumption. The selling
price was about CFAF 60/kg until the end of 1984. The real seed demand for
the Western Province has been estimated by the project at under 100 t;
sales in 1984, for example, were 55 t of certified prepackaged seed.
5.10      The mach.nery and supporting infrastructure are also
over-dimensioned in relation to throughput. For instance, a 200 m2 hangar
and adjoining 200 m2 store were built plus 12 houses for staff; the Farm
Manager reported that he had difficulty in filling the staff houses because
personnel preferred to live in town. The drying and seed processing
equipment, installed in late 1981 (PY3), has a handling capacity of 10 t of
seed per day, which is excessive; and the equipment is too sophisticated
and delicate for an operation of this nature in Africa. Some questions
have been raised about the design of the installation and the preselection
of machinery and its procurement. Lack of adequate control at the
preselection stage might have exacerbated the problem. In the future, when
the farm is managed without the internationally recruited expert,
difficulties could arise in keeping a reasonable level of operating
efficiency.
5.11      The farm is now in place with its 250 ha under cultivation,
machinery and equipment and associated infrastructure. What are the
options for making it a viable operation? The first one considered was to
sell seeds to other areas (adjoining provinces were suggested in the SAR)
but for only 20% of the production or 180 t/annum. Although this is still
theoretically possible, the available capacity would be closer to 700
t/year at full production. Apart from the large volume to dispose of,
10/ Annex, Table 3.
11/ Potatoes were produced on a separate site at a higher altitude.



- 21 -
another problem that would mitigate this option is the Government's current
policy which stipulates that each province should be self-sufficient in
seeds. If one considers producing for export to other areas, possibly even
to other countries, it would be essential to operate on a sound financial
basis probably only achievable in the longer run if the farm becomes a
commercial venture. The other option, assuming that UCCAO or the
Government continue to run the farm, is to reduce the size and staffing of
the operation to the level of the local demand. The main drawback to this
option is that the seed processing machinery is not divisible and could
thius be expensive to operate and maintain especially for such a small
throughput. All indication points toward the fact that the farm was
considerably overdesigned at the outset and that no matter what operational
adjustment are opted for, it will never be run profitably as it is
constructed to produce articles in quantities that by far outstrip the
limited demand. Therefore, the best solution would seem to be closing down
the farm and selling the equipment--especially since it appears that for
the 1985 growing season the farm sold onlv 14 t of seeds, the remainder
being produced by the private sector.
D. Pest Control
5.12        The original idea was that a special unit would be set up
within the Directorate of Production Services in UCCAO to carry out the
ongoing spraying against antestia and to supervise farmers who would spray
their coffee trees against anthracnose. The SAR contains no description of
the recommended structure of this unit, its proposed method of operation or
the mechanism for ensuring the supply and distribution of pesticides and
fungicides. In fact, very little attention appears to have been given to
the component, except in the investment cost table. Thus, the only
measures of performance are: (a) the hectares projected to be covered; (b)
the establishment of housing; and (c) the provision of vehicles and
equipment. The original targets were 46,000 ha per annum for antestia
control and 31,000 ha for anthracnose control. These figures were revised
during implementation, respectively to 75,000 ha and 54,000 ha out of a
total hectarage estimated at 95,000 ha. 12/ The area actually covered by
the service was on average 67,000 ha for antestia and 34,000 ha for
anthracrose control--an implementation rate of about 80% and 60%
respectively. The main problem with the service was the inadequate
MINAGRI/FONADER system for supplying chemicals, in terms of quantity,
quality and availability. Often, UCCAO had to purchase chemicals directly
(as it did fertilizers) to supplement the quantities of aubaidized material
made available by MINAGRI/FONADER, and, in these instances, UCCAO had to
bear the full cost. Even though the pest control service was successful in
covering a relatively large area, its impact is questionable. In the case
of anthracnose, two reasons underlined the considerable waste of fungicide:
12/ UCCAO, Completion Study, Op. cit., Tables 8 and 9.



- 22 -
first the fungicide was, and still is, free; second, in many cases farmers
did not own a sprayer or did not have access to one, but still received
fungicide.
5.13      The performance of this component was intended to be controlled
by placing the unit under UCCAO. However, there was a strong resistance to
this proposal and the Government was adamant about leaving the service in
the Delegation of Agriculture. The Bank agreed to it in 1980 13/ on the
condition that "UCCAO's Technical Director continued to control the
resources involved." The main resources involved were the vehicles and
equipment and their related operating costs. The project controlled these
costs indirectly.
E.   Cooperative Service Centers (CSCs)
5.14      This was the only component that directly reached the 27
individual cooperative sections. Financial provision was made to build 10
new warehouses and rehabilitate 25 existing ones; 16 seven-ton trucks, 13
utility pick-ups and 35 motorcycles were also provided. Although the
requirements of the cooperatives in terms of vehicles and civil works were
detailed in the SAR, there was no discussion or guidance on the operation
of these centers and no provision for improved management and technical
assistance. The result was that while six CSCs were constructed during the
project and 16 existing ones were renovated, little improvement occurred in
their management. Some key cooperatives personnel received short-course
training through the project's training program and new stock control
procedures were elaborated, but considerably more effort is required
particularly if the cooperatives are to take an increased responsibility
for managing FONADER's expanded credit program. The Second Project has
recognized this weakness and has thus placed considerable emphasis on
strengthening the cooperative movement through reorganizing accounting,
financial control administration and credit operations both within UCCAO
and in each member cooperative.
F.   Revolving Credit Fund
5.15      A Revolving Credit Fund was established in PY2 (1980) to receize
the contributions of UCCAO (CFAP 320 million), the Government (FCFA 608
million through FONADER) and farmers who were members of the six
cooperatives (CFAF 72 million). These funds were deposited one year late
primarily due to the delayed payment of the government portion and
confusion with FONADER over the modalities of payment. Two types of credit
were to be financed from the Fund: (a) seasonal credit with repayment in
one year; and (b) medium-term credit (three year repayment) for pulpers,
13/ IBRD Supervision Report, April 28, 1980, Annex V, page 7.



- 23 -
sprayers and grain storage cribs. The SAR discussed neither the need for
credit nor the potential target group, the system of credit, the
organizational structure required and how the credit administration was to
operate. Apart from the financial provision and the related institutional
arrangements, no preparation for the component was done. Furthermore, no
provision was made for a credit study or for the services of a credit
specialist. It is thus not surprising that no disbursements were made from
this component during the project for the purpose of seasonal or
medium-term credit. The only withdrawals from the Fund were for the
bridge-financing of fertilizer and other agricultural inputs while waiting
for FONADER funds. The comment of the project Executive Controller and the
MCS study was that while credits were being distributed on a
cooperative-by-cooperative basis, either from their own resources or from
FONADER funds, they were basically distributed on an ad hoc basis and with
limited record keeping. It was also found that the cooperatives' accounts
were normally six to nine months out of date, that the linkages among
cooperative unions, cooperative service centers, cooperative centers and
farmers groups were often tenuous and that no formalized relations had been
established with the extension service--all critical points for the
successful operation of a credit program. Under these circumstances, it
was recommended that the distribution of credit be withheld until the
accounting practices were improved and the associated systems and linkages
developed, and that they should then be made only on a pilot basis. These
recommendations were adopted in 1985.
G.   Village Water Supply
5.16      The project performed well in meeting the targeted number of
water points for this component entrusted to "GEnie Rural" where a special
service was established "Hydraulique Villageoise," and realized 233
installations over the project period. 14/ No water points were installed
in the first year which was essentially a preparatory year to organize the
service and identify sites. In the following years, between 30 and 70
water points were installed each year. The service was basically well
organized but a number of problems have been identified. While 233 water
points were established, the identifying and assigning of priority to the
sites were not well organized. Consequently, the choice of sites was often
influenced by personal pressures, and water points were not always
installed in areas with the highest need for clean drinking water or with
the highest population density or the greatest need for coffee washing
facilities. This problem could have been avoided, or at lesnt minimized,
if more rigorous selection criteria and detailed operating procedures had
been instituted from the start. Another weakness was the lack of
systematic recording of the materials and type of construction used for
each water point. It was thus difficult to evaluate the performance on an
14/   UCCAO, Completion Study, Op. cit., Table 7



- 24 -
installation-by-installation basis. A further potential problem not in the
performance of the component but in the performance of the water points was
the difficulty of ensuring adequate cleaning and maintenance, and provision
of spare parts. However, in late 1982, following Bank initiatives, the
Government agreed to officially give village development committees
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of their water points and
to collect a fee for part of the maintenance costs. These committees
received training during the project from "Genie Rural" and have recently
been active in maintaining their water sources, thus greatly reducing the
load on the Government.
H.   Bottomland Development
5.17      This component consisted of two types ef activities: (a)
engineering-oriented tasks under the responsibility of "G4nie Rural"; and
(b) crop production-oriented tasks under the extension service--both aimed
at taking advantage of under- or unutilized low lying areas subject to
flooding. Due to their high population density, these areas represented an
important untapped potential for the Province. About 400 ha were
programmed to be developed over the five-year project period; by the end of
the project, 436 ha had been reclaimed and, of these, 290 ha had been
distributed and cultivated. Most of the bottomlands developed had been
proposed in the SAR and considerable detail was in annexes (engineering
parameters, costs, organization and cultivation of the areas). The
detailed preparation and the competent local team facilitated the
implementation of the component and contributed to exceeding its target.
Some delays occurred in setting up and training a survey team, but by PY2
it was fully operational and by the end of the project 1,651 ha had been
surveyed.
5.18      One of the more difficult aspects was the organization of local
villagers to provide labor for the works, a problem which was closely
linked to the larger question of land tenure and distribution of parcels of
land. While the engineering works went relatively smoothly, enormous
effort was made to sort out the land tenure issues. UCCAO, in charge of
these issues, started a dialogue with the senior traditional chief in the
area early in the development process, but agreement on the distribution of
parcels took from 12 to 18 months of negotiations, involving not only the
technicians but also the Director General of UCCAO and the Governor of the
Province. The agreement reached was that, to receive cultivation rights a
family had to supply on average 187 man-days of labo-, it would then have
the possibility to work a 0.2 ha plot. The process of working through the
traditional authorities was slow, but resulted in a relatively fair
distribution of land and in a development very much in harmony with the
existing society and its norms.
5.19      Because of good soils and encouragement from the project and
UCCAO. most farmers cultivated vegetables in the bottomland areas. But
with more hectares under vegetable cultivation, farmers often found
considerable difficulty in marketing their crops, both in terms of



- 25 -
physical aspects, such as transport and storage, and of market demand,
price and ac^essibility. This was an area where the project had paid
insufficient attention and, aa a result, farmers who had successfully grown
tomatoes or other vegetables were sometimes unable to sell them. An
important measure was introduced at the end of the project to help
alleviate this situation. Pre-cooperative groups were established
independently from UCCAO's cooperative system, to provide a collective
market mechanism to help farmers organize transport, storage and eventually
represent them in the markets. A second measure was proposed but not
carried out: the detailed investigation of vegetable marketing from the
schemes. One related area that was not adequately covered was the
evaluation of the economic viability of the individual schemes. Because of
the split in responsibility between the engineering side, which maintained
investment cost information, and the extension side, which maintained crop
production and benefit information, no one was specifically responsible for
the economic analyses or for the integration of their results into the
decision making process to determine to which bottomland priority should be
given.
l,   Coffee Processing
5.20      To improve the quality of coffee and make processing more
efficient, the project was to finance ten sorting machines, three machines
to detect stinking beans, and 3,000 coffee pulpers. The coffee washing
points which were part of the village water supply component were included
in this initiative. The number of coffee sorting machines purchased, which
were financed directly from UCCAO's budget, was more than double that
foreseen in the SAR. Similarly, the number of stinking bean detecting
machines purchased was also increased. It is worth noting that (a) there
was no uniformity in the makes of the machines purchased; and (b) the
operation of the machines was inefficient (low utilization of capacity and
bad adjustment); and third, there was little routine maintenance of the
2,900 coffee pulpers by farmers during the project. In spite of these
purchases, there was little improvement in coffee quality as noted by
several supervision missions. The recommendations were: (a) improvement in
the efficiency of the pest control service; (b) introduction of a bonus
system for higher quality beans; (c) introduction of more pulpers and
easier provision of spare parts; and (d) improvement in the operation of
central coffee processing. Some of these recommendations are included in
the Second Project.
J.   Crop Production
5.21      A comprehensive analysis of the project impact on crop production
is difficult due to the following factors: (a) no reliable annual crop
statistics are compiled in the Province; (b) no baseline survey was
undertaken at the beginning of the project, thus no control group or area
was established; (c) the data gathered during the preparation of the Second
Project, while well researched and documented, only cover one year-the



- 26 -
without project case (1982); and (d) wide yield fluctuations due to the
drought and other unforeseen factors. Nevertheless, it has been possible
to piece together a picture for the main project crops, particularly coffee
and maize.
5.22      Coffee.  At appraisal, coffee production had fallen to about
11,000 t as a result of a bad crop year, disease, increasing age of many
trees and worsening terms of trade in relation to food crops. The stated
aim of the project was to "stabilize the arabica coffee industry,...., and
to stop the declining trend in production through improved fertilization
and pest control." 15/ The "without project" base production (SAR) was
taken as being 15,2907t; over the following nine years, production was to
increase to 26,150 t. As it was assumed that production would increase to
18,850 t without the project, only 7,300 t of the increment was attributed
to the project. The actual production over the period, recorded below,
shows a marked recovery from 1977/78 to 20,000 t in 1979/80, then holding
at 17,000 t for the ensuing years and then falling to 12,500 t in 1983/84
(a drought year). With such a trend it is almost impossible to isolate the
impact of the project. It is clear that the production targets set in the
SAR were not achieved, but what is not quite as clear is what the situation
over the six-year period would have been without the project. As discussed
earlier (para 5.11), the pest control program covered the major part of the
coffee producing area, but possibly with limited effect. Besides, more
fertilizers were distributed during the project, but it is probable (and
frequently asserted) that farmers used a larger portion on food crops which
gave a higher return.
Production ('000 t)               Yields (kg/ha)
Without      With                 Without      With
Project a/ Project a/ Actual b/ Project a/ Project a/ Actual b/
(PYO)   15.3           15.3           -          1.7           1.7
1975/76          -              -         15.2           -              -        160
1976/77          -              -         11.1           -              -        110
1977/78          -              -         14.7           -              -        150
1978/79  (PYl)   -              -         16.8           -              -        180
1979/80  (PY2)   -              -         20.4           -              -        210
1980/81  (PY3)   -              -         17.9           -              -        180
1981/82  (PY4)   -              -         17.8           -              -        180
1982/83  (PY5)   -              -         17.3           -              -        170
1983/84  (PY6) c/-              -         12.5           -              -        120
(PY9) 18.9           26.2          -         200            280         -
a/ SAR estimates
b/ UCCAO and MINAGRI estimates
cl Drought year
15/ IBRD, SAR, Op. cit., Annex 3.



- 27 -
As the area under coffee did not change appreciably over the project period, the
trend in yields closely approximates the production trend. While the decline in
coffee production can be attributed to a number of factors, the underlying one
is the relatively unattractive price for arabica coffee to the growers.
Although farmers continued to harvest their coffee they put little effort into
its cultivation.
5.23      Maize.  Maize production, as recorded by the provincial statistics
service of MINAGRI, shows 428,167 t on 360,258 ha in the Province, giving an
average yield of 1.2 t/ha for 1983/84.  The SAR established the hectarage of
maize (pure stand) at 57,880 ha (PYO 74/75) and projected that it would increase
to 60,280 ha by PY9 without the project; the "without project" yields were
respectively 1.3 t/ha and 1.6 t/ha. The impact of the project's extension
service, improved seeds, and some additional fertilizer were projected to
increase maize yields to 2.5 t (pure stand) by PY9. After a detailed study
involving discussions with technicians in each department of the Province and a
review of production statistics in the departmental agricultural offices, the
appraisal mission for the Second Project (March 1984) determined that maize
yield at the end of the project was 2.2 t/ha on a pure stand basis and 1.8 t/ha
in association on about 68,000 ha. This is in line with the estimates made by
the FAO/CP preparation mission (December 1981) which arrived at a yield of 1.7
t/ha (in association) over 74,000 ha. MINAGRI's production and hectarage
figures would appear to be much too high even under extreme assumptions
regarding crop association, and the yield levels too low. 16/ The trend shown
by the yields derived from these figures gives an annual increase of
10%--figures very much in line with those used in the project SAR.
1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84
Maize Yields (t/ha)        0.97     0.99      1.19      1.44     1.79
(in association)
Knowing the price advantage of maize over coffee, the availability of improved
seeds, and a tested package of better cultivation practices, it can be concluded
that project production did in fact exceed the appraisal targets.
5.24      Other Crops.  Root crops, yams, taro, macabo, and cassava are the most
important crops in the area. Little change in yields and production was
recorded over the project period. There might have been a small increase as is
implied in the Second Project SAR, but figures for these crops are notoriously
unreliable. Since no extension messages were specifically intended for root
crops, any yield inereases would be only marginally attributable to project
16/ The Sample Census of Agriculture carried out in 1984 estimates 59,700
ha for the Western Province as a whole, with an average yield of 1.89
t/ha.



- 28 -
actions. The other important crops are beans and groundnuts. Comparison
between the SAR figures and those for the "without project" case in the Second
Project SAR shows no improvement in bean yields but marked improvements in
groundnut yields (from 0.4 t/ha without project to 1.0 to 1.2 t/ha by the end of
the project). Considering the improved varieties of grouudnuts, the associated
package of cultivation practices extended by the project, and the lack of
support for bean cultivation the conclusions are logical.



- 29 -
VI. FINANCIAL AN) ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
A.   Financial Results
6.01      Insufficient data were collected by the project's Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit (MEU) to establish comparative farm budgets at project
completion. While the overall decline in coffee production over the project
suggests that farmer income from coffee has also declined, it can be safely
assumed that the substantial increase in food crop production in the project
area more than made up for the shortfall. It is, however, close to impossible
to measure farmer financial benefits as crop production figures are unreliable
and consumption patterns are not known. On the other hand, the consolidated
profit and loss account of UCCAO, the cooperatives, and the project as of
September 30, 1983 (the lastest) shows a net profit of CFAF 2 billion (US$4.1
million) on total sales of CFAF 18 billion (US$36.7 million). The combined net
worth of the six cooperatives, including UCCAO, amounts to CFAF 13.7 billion
(US$28 million) as of December 31, 1983, and is made up as follows:
Cooperative         CPAF billion
CAPLAME                  4.5
CAPLANOUN                2.2
CAPLAMI                  3.7
CAPLABAM                 2.6
CAPLAHN                  (0.3)
CAPLANDE                   -
UCCAO                     1.0
Total                   13.7
The foregoing distribution of UCCAO's net worth indicates a considerable problem
and at the same time highlights one of the principal weaknesses of the project
design: insufficient project support to individual cooperatives. For, to show a
negative or zero net worth as is the case for CAPLAHN and CAPLANDE means simply
extreme carelessness in management. The Second Project has clearly recognized
this weakness and, as a result, put more emphasis on administrative and
accounting assistance to those member cooperatives that need it.
6.02      Financial Impact on the Government.  Instead of the CFAF 465 million
(US$0.9 million) foreseen at appraisal, the Government's contribution to project
costs was CFAF 692 million (US$1.4 million). As UCCAO was unable to determine
how much of the production during each of the project years was attributable to
the project (incremental), it is not possible to determine whether this amount
was recovered through export taxes and levies on arabica/robusta exports. It
must, however, be assumed that, based on UCCAO's 1982/83 profit and loss
statements which show taxes and levies (ONCPB) paid off CFAF 3.1 billion (US$6.3



- 30 -
million), the Government's annual contributions to project costs are more than
compensated.
B.   Economic Results
6.03      Due mainly to lower than expected coffee production, the overall rate
of return for the project has been re-estimated during appraisal of the Second
Project (May 1984), at 17% against the 20% forecast at appraisal. This does
take into account rainfed crop production which excaeded targets by about 10,000
tons (mainly maize). This estimate of additional food crop production is based
on statistics collected by the Provincial Delegation of the Ministry of
Agriculture for the whole province. Although the complex, mixed cropping system
and the unknown consumption pattern make it extremely difficult to measure crop
production levels, the additional project area production has been estimated by
the appraisal mission of the Second Project to arrive at some indicati..1 of an
econwomic rate of return (ERR). Again, these assumptions could not be verified
at completion of the project as UCCAO had no additional data. Therefore, the
ERR was not recalculated.



- 31 -
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE/CONCLUSIONS
7.01      RMWA's formulation of the project followed standard lines for an
integrated rural development project. The constraints to development,
particularly agricultural development, were well identified; the technical means
for meeting those constraints were essentially well developed, with a few
exceptions; and an institutional structure to implement the project was worked
out very much along the lines that the Government had been following (entrusting
development to existing major institutions in the region). Conceptually, a
number of weaknesses could be attributed to the over-ambitious project goals and
to difficulty in interpreting the institutional demands of the project.
7.02      The first weakness which in some quarters would be considered a
strength, even the strength of the project, is the selection of UCCAO as the
project executing agency. Since UCCAO was one of the more efficient
agricultural bodies in Cameroon and the only major one in Western Province, it
appeared to represent an ideal vehicle for efficient management of the project.
However, little discussion took place in the Bank, at least documented
discussion, on the implications of using a cooperative apex organization, with
its main scope of activities and mode of operation focused on coffee marketing,
as the project executi-g agency and indirectly as a regional development
authority. The impact of selecting UCCAO has in the short-term resulted in the
relatively efficient implementation of a number of project components. But a
question remains: What will be the impact in the longer term, especially if and
when the financial and technical support, being given under the Second Project,
stops? The same question could have been asked if the project had been
implemented by the field services of MINAGRI.
7.03      The project formulation process resulted in a project with 9
components involving two ministries and requiring various management skills.
The narrowing of project scope could have made implementation easier.
T;.chnically, one of the constraints to project implementation was the lack of
emphasis in project formulation on adaptive research. The need for a
strengthened extension service was identified, but in spite of queries during
project formulation, issues such as the limited availability of proven paccages
tested at the farm level and the lack of a mechanism to generate information
that could be readily used by the extension agents were not adequately
addressed. The result was that, while the extension service grew and extension
agents were trained and mobilized, no parallel development of tested extension
messages took place.
7.04      The project's institutional design did not foresee (but should have
foreseen) the conflicts that were to arise 1etween MINAGRI and UCCAO, especially
the resistance not only by the Provincial Delegate, but also by MINAGRI in
Yaoundg, to the moving of the extension and pest control unit to UCCAO. The
concept of transferring these services (and strengthening them) to UCCAO instead
of alternative arrangements requires further study to decide on the best
location for the extension service before the Second Project ends. This issue
forms part of the sector review of extension and training being carried out by
the Governfment and the Bank.



- 32 -
7.05      Although difficult to determine at the time of project formulation,
the concept of producing improved seeds on a large mechanized seed farm, which
was possibly to be turned over to a commercial venture, presents some
difficulties. While the Government's intention was to have a large capacity
able to serve not only the needs of the Western Province but also the
requirements of other provinces, in retrospect it might be asked if it was
justified to allocate 20% of project finances to this activity, especially
considering the doubtful availability of suitable hybrid maize seed from
research establishments.
7.06      The final point on  project design regards credit.  A revolving credit
fund was provided, but no effort was made to detail how thea credit should be
distributed, what should be the institutional arrangements or how to get the
credit to farmers and to ensure reimbursement. It should be noted, bowever,
that in contrast to the lack of information on a few components, in particular
credit, pest control and the Cooperative Service Centers, most components were
prepared in great detail and provided a good basis for project implementation.
7.07      The Bank supervised the project on average twice a year.  The
supervision missions were thorough and considerable support was given to project
management. However, only one visit was made by an agronomist during the
project (PY2). Considering the agronomic complexity of the area and the
objective of the project to restructure and strengthen extension, pest control,
and seed production services, a greater impact on this side would have been
useful. Nevertheless, the supervision missions pinpointed the major problems
during execution and, in most cases, proposed solutions before they got out of
hand. The three areas which caused problems throughout the project and were not
resolved during the project period were (a) the conflict between MINAGRI and
UCCAO and the resulting duplication of extension services; (b) the
overproduction of the seed farm in relation to demand; and (e) the poor
performance of the monitoring and evaluation unit in YaoundE.  The overall
performance of the Bank in executing the project within tb',cronfines of its
4'ormulation was good.
7.08      The Second Western Province Rural Development Project, which is in its
second year of implementation, takes account of t'ne lessons learned during the
execution of the Western Highlands Rural Development Project.



-33-                                     now
Owr 7-01
ReV bsdicats of 1WIoa        ltpuw
Prject  kdhv t           hapril Obiective
ReUi stff aaa                                 q
9      _wws  (re.)                     57 1/                   23 (52)
asiad   q*a  (nW.)                    190                      7 5 (200) 1/
Direct arm   portiaiprt (no.)        40,000 2/                   3D,200 3/
lnrneta feftilise  eis5              10,00 4/                    10,520 /
Inratal padmt coffee (tyer)  2,00  6/                             3,160 5/
Seed fain cultiwtfin
N3ize                  (ha)           1:0                         300
Ohr sdstuEe  crtops (ha)               80                          50
Potats                 (t)            2(. 11                      700
Redintino/& laimp (ha)                330                         400
(AItivatign (ha)                      330 (1,400 parcels)         400
Reaffortatim  (ha)                      400 8/                      450
aisswtin  (No. eites)
Pilots
_utm                                ) 36 9/                         7
*te points cutructin  (Wo.)             235                         220
Cdllecti   W coff  poSpbD/oRtig wudm  10 11/                          0
!nJisl&l acffee popli  wcldhs         2,900 1O/                   3,000 3/
y/  AIpoW         ptoposel: azevios 23 (yer 4), 52 (ea 9); ateito  ftnu.: 75 (vow 4) 200
(yer 9); both tnor          in Hml  vith  red aceleratin in rate of c_me8s atauia
ervie dswlo.t f   thee to six dqurlArtan blmd plaea.
/  Of idh 15,I00 wi   O  br patcipit  (twited to fid mtne. amu    ad reived
fgofle p sew aBiU   m  en farm  for only I yr.
3/  Year 4 tarpt apndaisal     P.
4/  1978 enApio  (10,000 t) as plJsm   1by aprs  to ris  to 27,730 t (or 17,73D t
Szintual) 'ar 9. The awly In 1981 . rd 1982, totllg 20,000 t (or 10,000 t
I_mmItal) wr.  late 1d us qu' so; stuation ipreed for 1983  m     with 22,500 t
dIIvSu  (or 12,500 t inr.trn), but   ufitS will wt be refle             in prject.
5/  AIpcolma1  twpt 3,160 t yar 4 risIn  to 6,540 t yewr 9.
COq_ ed to the afda  offe              I 1978 of 15,290 t, the eae pronstion for th  last
three yas h  bern 17,290 t pa year-dds eflet both insde*te fertiUalr &VVIUs (4)
ad tbeaet of dereed d&et in 102/3.
7/ mhe iuem    to mIG t potao      d we beig addivd in 1984 by introdcbg a seond atp
-Atilicatit an lWc    ell ftan; em  pye   Is new bein  eaAa  an a pilot beei for
utlAtio of iqvd wvrtise  of hricot bam..
8/  Totd 3 dapams   fi, Mmm ad BUsbxts) 460 ha plaed, of uAic  60 ha dtred by
fifte folladna   St    s 1983.
9/  1983 prop           to I frm 18 pllot plots (3 d qateaft) to pre-ateniono phase invol
crati0n of 6 derstrttmn  sites in each dqpra  ( 6 x 6 + 36) by project wd.
I0/ 2,700 BomaI  offee d      qpulpln  md%e Wem purcaed blv iXW  in 1979 ad 1981, an a furher
70D in 1982 ad 1983. It is calca d that 75S of this total diU hae been sold to fanmrs
bv 6/30/84.
I1/ Tota of 10 collective (t farm) dqupe  hoe been introed (also  tlled    the
project wtr  ponts) late In the project as an Initiative for heapinr to Iqnme coffee
qushit'.
*.Je 1''-



ANNEX
~ 34 -                     Table 2
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 784-CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Cost and Financing (CFAF '000)
1/    Actual Total
--------  SAR  -      ----      Actual   As of SAR
Components                       Local    Foreign   Total         Total      Total
I.   UCCAO
1.  Headquarters/Garage          744.8      289.2      534.0      1227.3      230
2.  Production Service
Extension Service
- General                    127.0      185.8      312.8       774.5      248
- Field Trials               298.8      180.9     479.7        430.6       90
- Bottomlands                 68.3       28.0       96.3        54.9       57
Seed Production              487.1      564.8   1,051.9      1,253.7      119
Pest Control                  52.7      118.7      171.4       109.6       64
Training                     159.6      157.6      317.2       438.1      138
3. Commercial Service
Coop Service Centers         729.1      539.6   1,268.7      2,422.2      162
Industrial Investments        64.0      129.3      193.3         -          -
II.  Revolving Credit                  345.0     667.7    1012.7         608,0      60
. ~as
III. Village Water                     174.5      146.5     321.0        457.9     143
IV.  Bottomlands Development           126.1       55.0     181.1        385.2     213
V.   M. & E. Studies                    66.8      120.4     187.2        106.0       57
TOTAL                          29 43.8   3,183.5   64127.3       8"68.0       L 5
Financing                           IDA              3,185.0    4,277        134
UCCAO            1,813.0    2,681        148
FONADER             -         928          -
Government       1,129.0      382         34
1/  Due to the continuous shlft in exchange rates throughout the project no
breakdown in local/foreign costs has been calculated.
WAPAD
June 1985



( 0 ,                           ;                   t                      60 30'  10000'
KILOMETERs'x        ' 20 3    40        o                                           Western  Highlanc
0  /  20       30 r<  4                                                                 WES
-6o00''I                                                                   6''00'?             DELIMITATIC
(K   J                      N                                          t-< 9 ' < * " X -/5t ), \tProject are
Physical p
~~~  -                  /                        - ~~~~~~~~~~~~Provincial
) i4   ;                                                     /                     -      -  Departmer
1) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--District (Ar
, v                                /) @S) < ; Chief-dorr
~    AFOUS                                                          Fal   Province I
*a  B  Prefecture
A / /    \  t (  h 'c\)   5                          O     Subprefec
1-  1?           if ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-District h
\4g,,_4 I;  ' -                             C                 600'          -Not  Chief-dom I
/                          ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~0 10
..                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS'
<     ;    (..                                                         s ; '   ;-       MILESI              r
< .1 - ,)f su1 5'00'                                                          o            0 o                 c
,'IO-0.                                              11#00 
WESTERN PROVINCE    MAIN SOILS GROUPS
-- Physical project area                   Brown soils
boundary                              | Black deposition soils
- -"--Provincial boundaries                                                                        I
Hydromorphic soils
E    Province headquarters           '        R    f    i   soils
; >   Rlves-+                              ~~~~~~~~~Red ferralitic soils         t 
RiveA~o
Reworked ferralitic soils           i-         (       L.
5030'          " .
-.- ntnernational            -.'                                                                       '    ) <,Dchn   .
boundaries
r      / I           r        I      r
NIGMRIA                     k   CHAD                           *---                 '   Santchou\
Kekem  )
(CEN-RAL
<-       J  )>                    A cFtRICAN                               .                       Petit DmbouR
,i~ . \.Bqoussom                   REPUBLIC                                                         ett*ibu
S   i .    ItL 'tIk                            
@gYaounde                      0'
. ,ap has oftn t"rrd by Th e WOW Bans ka tor Fa Neaconww" otf
*    the readers arrn a exrA.twly for the 0   use of The Wobd the eld the hStW rgm iaf m  I
Fnance Cotwiabon The dtelfetmnns used and thVW boudue show on te rnp do tot
on .e part ot Tho World Bar* ed te htnnaWormtl Fnae Cnmm. ny jgmnt
EOuATOR .AL             - .              a *e legal statns ot any ftrntory or an erdoawle or accpaxvt ondih botdnee
E    GUATORIAL  i GABON  TPEOPLE' REP OFNO                                               10000'
i   GUINEA !            . THE CONGO



IBRD 1 3072R
CAN\EROON    x 0xo
ghlands Rural Devrelopment Project                                                                        %.
WESTERN PROVINCE 
ilTATION OF PROJECT AREA(
Project area according to administrative boundaries 
Physical project area                                                                                /   >    ,
Provincial boundaries                                                                           _,
Departmental boundaries:                                                                         
District (Arrondissement) boundaries                                           
Chief-dom(Chefferie) boundaries                                                          :.
Province headquarters                                                      
Prefecture headquarters 
Subprefecture heodquarters;'%
District headquarters                                      /._           r _.                                       "
Chief-dom boundories shown only in proJectoarea       ,                _               _/              Magbo  
1Ia    2p       3pO      40b                                                                                  .
10           20            30             7\-*                                                    _    _+
XT->>~~~ IV                                                                                     M.. J   ......_ttAan Mlontouen, 
f~~~~~1 iS Galim>                                                        Fo m"v.-i              0 !t3 s  
{i;\- ~     ~       O -'  rou,o/\L             
J.<.r.A.,,>.S   C) teR___t                                                                        *\~~~~~~~~~II
,t,~ ~    ~    0 ,,O(xw      ;7              s            kMassongam 
Bm  l ( stgBeen Ba~08ngangte'!
Petit Diboum  o.9           )Bzou                                        (*
#W#R         S   /                ~~~~~~Tonga, 0s1 
iO- 30'                                         . 11,00,
_ * . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APRL I9?7



International Boundaries                       10000'
/oAL C~c ( J                  Western Highl
POPULATION DI
'    9-<  CHAD                         BAMILEKE - 1
BAMILEKE - 1
NIGERIA        r                                           B e AMOUN - 10
/                  _ o               .t     BAMOLIN - 10
*                 ,/J'\   /) 9               OTHER INHAB
,J.               *1 -   ,/7.30                URBAN POPUL
<'  vvJw  "  '1\"   '>   (j   CENTRAL      -         PROVINCIAL    E
6et*Lrn      . ,    AFRICAN                         DEPARTMENT
-J      - Bafouisam'    N REPUBUC       ---    DISTRICT BO0
WESTERN
PROVINCE   >                                        I      PROVINCE HE
-jjt v;'*YAOUNDE         <                    O       PREFECTURE
Kekem    OTHER CITIEE
AflAPrtU                                                 -      \ROADS
(It  iGABON  ,HPER OFO   V     KILOMETERS'        'P
o             10
gO3a
T ou
imr- M" pAmw 
* *. f. y /n
V. A" 'Pm
loW SW " a-1 f   1t wv 5 :'
-600^~ #W ww-tl* 4t        0/                     l            1*   /
b_  >'1                           >8*-    5
*f - #~WVlm*w ftv-^-
,_014ag7* #4
1  03 9           74-f e     /                      i_ oo



.    .                             ~~~~~~~~~~IORD 13073R
C}UUEROON    n1030'                                      it00 Ow60&
nds Rural Development Project
ESTERN PROVINCE 
sISITY AND MAIN ETIINIC GROUPS 
Inhabitants
Inhabitants
ihabitants
Inhabitants                                                          c     .
kNTS|                                                                                        r
'ION IN THOUSANDS OF INHABITANTS                                                       v
INDARIES    L 
BOUNDARIES
MARIESj
QUARTERS                                                 
ADQUARTERS.                                    *,_      r    -                                    .
NDTOWNS                               g\J                            b>\v 
^  40                              At It,
t^-zxA^/ ~ ~~~~~ AA'
20~~~~ ~   ~ 30^ 198



CAMEROU
Mogasins de cooperatives existonts
13    Amiliorhs et tronsform6s en centres de services        PROJET   DE   DEVELOPF
*   llNouveoux sites                                           DES HAUTS PLATEAU
Chef-lieu de province
2D   Chef-lieu de pr6fecture                              Routes de Desserte et Centres i
o     Chef-lieu de sous-prefecture          VeWs
O     Chef-lieu d'arrondissement             8omend.>
*    Villages
Routes principales
Routes de desserte
Cours d'eou
o        5        10       15       20
KILOMETRES                   1''-                                                 GA/
0             5              10                                                     AUML L  
MILESU
9 C    e s s~~~~~~mso        
Nzindeng                                                  2
\            )    )         B~~~~~~~~ongan pC 1              t   Bofovrndo    <
XJ Af < ~\/ > BoBo[",
Fongo Tongo
ri           _\                               bleveng    PEKAg                             F U5negAM
Fongo Ndeng                   * ()CHL  0/                                                   AF      M
p nd\oBnnI
(    f )  BBtchumathigo
Sontchu        >/6     
\       >/                         t3COM~~~ ~ ~~               ~~~~~PANY  13A
\                              {                ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~Bondenkop IE1t
e/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  1tchingo
BAFANG
BNA



BIRD 13821R
NT RURAL                            Bongouren 
L. l'OUEST
,vices Envisage's
Nkoomongoo 
<   ENkoumoigNk oupa Matopit
I(ouoptompomenkNo mn
,4Xz  <-- -; - '      ,9                     (          s_)              fO~UNlBAN
i   KoDoptomen    X           0    >x5%gNko~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kuti$
NgbeotsenC-
Ngourondom     -
FOUMBOT
Ndo;.                                            Mf sset
/           M~~~aong umi
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A _4 J 11S q; 8xa .'Wd 01 nWt~  lY/fJ* WA.*tSltO/ IV  SW I_If
A. t (          A - I                *  -
)ngom~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
RT ~      ~        TCA
Abn
!at~) ,", "        t L.   _
~~3Bongwa  ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     Mbo    ona~~~~ussom       Mbon
' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~te~' '  'Ye _,.M
YAOUOC B                        19
B GANGTEAbg
OCTOBRE 1987



