FILE COPY                             Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2195-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE UNITED REPUNLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 15, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and wy be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                 -          CFAF 245
CFAF 1               -          US$0.0041
CFAF 1,000           -          US$4.1
CFAF 1,000,000       -          US$4,081.63
ABBREVIATIONS
BCU            -    Bottomlands Cultivation Unit (UCCAO)
Caisse         -    Coffee Price Stabilization Board
COOPMUT        -    Department of Cooperatives and Mutual Assistance
(Ministry of Agriculture)
DEP            -    Planning Unit - Ministry of Agriculture
DPA            -    Provincial Delegation of Agriculture, Western Province
F'ONADER       -    National Rural Credit Fund
FTDU           -    Field Trials and Demonstration Unit (UCCAO)
Genie Rural    -    Rural Works Department of Western Province (Ministry
of Agriculture)
IRAF           -    Agricultural and Forestry Research Institute
MIDEVIV        -    Foodcrop Development Agency (Ministry of Agriculture)
ONAREST        -    National Scientific Research Organization
PCU            -    Pest Control Unit (UCCAO)
PMEU           -    Project Monitor:Lng and Evaluation Unit (DPA)
SPU            -    Seed Production Unit (UCCAO)
UCCAO          -    Arabica Coffee Growers' Cooperative Union, Western Province
RMWA           -    Regional Mission in Western Africa
FISCAL YEAR
UCCAO                 January 1 to December 31
Government            July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      United Republic of Cameroon.
Beneficiary:   Union Des Cooperatives de Cafe Arabica de l'Ouest (UCCAO)
Amount:        US$13.0 million
Terms:         Standard
ProJect
Description:  The project would consist of the following over a nine year
development period:
(a) strengthening and equipping a newly created Directorate
of Production Services within UCCAO (the Cooperative
Union of Arabica Coffee Growers), which would be respon-
sible for extension, pest control, seed production,
training, and field demonstration and trials;
(b) establishing a training center to train extension agents,
cooperative staff and members, and senior extension staff;
(c) improving field storage facilities for inputs, coffee,
and foodcrops by upgrading 25 existing and constructing
10 new rural service centers;
(d) establishing a revolving credit fund (to be operated
by UCCAO) which would finance seasonal inputs and small
farm tools and equipment;
(e) constructing about 220 water points to provide 18,000
rural families with safer and more convenient water
supply. Each water point would also have simple facili-
ties to help smallholders with the washing and fermentation
of coffee;
(f) constructing simple water control works to enable about
400 ha of currently uncultivated bottomlands to be put
into productive use by some 1,300 rural families;
(g) increasing the mechanical coffee grading capacity of
UCCAO from 7,000 tons to 14,000 tons per year and intro-
ducing machines capable of improving coffee quality;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(h) establishing a project monitoring unit which would
record changes in a limited number of performance
indicators as an aid in improving project implemen-
tation and monitoring the impact of project actions;
and
(i)  strenghening the Planning Unit in the Ministry of Agri-
culture to enable it to evaluate the proposed and other
projects. This Unit would also supervise 34 man-months
of consultant situdies to examine the feasibility and
design of a possible follow up project.
The project's direct economic benefit would be an increase
in the production of food crops and coffee. At full devel-
opment, the net economic value of incremental project pro-
duction is estimated to be US$9.00 million a year. With the
project, cash income for some 30,000 families would increase
by some 54 percent to a range of US$395-702 per farm family,
depending on soil quuality. The major risk for the project
would derive from delays in establishing an efficient system
for delivery of advice and inputs to farmers.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:
US$ Million             Percent of
Local   Foreign   Total       Base Cost
UCCAO
Headquaters Staff                    0.8       0.6       1.4            7
Commercial Services                  2.6       2.1       4.7           24
Production Services
Extension                          1.5       1.3      2.8           15
Seed Production                    1.6       2.1      3.7            19
Pest Control                       0.2       0.3       0.5            3
Training                           0.5       0.5       1.0            5
INCREMENTAL FARM INPUTS                1.1       2.1       3.2           16
VILLAGE WATER SUPPLY                    0.5      0.5       1.0            5
BOTTOMLANDS DEVELOPMENT                0.4       0.2       0.6            3
EVALUATION AND PREPARATION
OF FEASIBILITY STUDY                  0.2       0.4       0.6            3
TOTAL BASE COST                         9.4     10.1      19.5          100
Physical Contingencies               1.0       1.0       2.0           10
Price Contingencies                  1.6       1.9       3.5           18
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    12.0      13.0      25.0            -
Taxes                                2.2        -        2.2
TOTAL NET OF TAXES                      9.8     13.0      22.8



- iv -
Financing Plan:
-----US$ Million-------- - ------
IDA   Government   Farmers   UCCAO   Total
1.  Expatriate Salaries        2.1        -            -         -        2.1
2. Operating Costs,
Training and Staff
Salaries                  3.6      0.6            -        -        4.2
3.  Civil Works                3.4       0.4           -         -        3.8
4.  Vehicles and Equipment   2.0         0.2           -         -        2.2
5. Project Evaluation
and Preparation           0.6      0.1            -        -        0.7
6.  Commercial Services         -         -            -        5.2       5.2
7.  Revolving Credit Fund       -        2.5          0.2       1.4       4.1
8.  Unallocated                1.3       0.6           -        0.8       2.7
TOTAL                   13.0      4.4          0.2       7.4      25.0
Percent of Total Cost   52          17            1       30       100
Percent of Net-
of-Tax Cost              57       10             1       32       100
Estimated Disbursements:
Amounts in US$ thousand
IDA Fiscal Year                            1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Annual                                      1.0      3.0      3.6      3.8     1.6
Cumulative                                  1.0      4.0      7.6    11.4    13.0
Rate of
Return:        The economic rate of return on the project is estimated at
20 percent.
Appraisal
Report:        Appraisal of the Western Highlands Rural Development project,
Cameroon, No. 1780-CM, dated March 6, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS -RJRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
Development Credit for the equivalent of US$13.0 million to the United
Republic of Cameroon, on standard IDA terms, to help finance a rural devel-
opment project in the Western Highlands of Cameroon. The bulk of the credit
would be passed on by the Government to the Cooperative Union of Arabica
Coffee Growers (UCCAO) as grant.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, "Proposals for a Medium-Term Public Development Program,
A Special Study, Cameroon" (No. 1097a-CM), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 11, 1976. The findings of an economic mission which visited
Cameroon in October-November 1976 are incorporated below. The mission's
report is being reviewed by the Government. Annex I provides basic country
data.
Economic Potential
3.        Cameroon has a population of about 7.6 million (1976) and covers
an area of 475,000 km2. The country's natural resources are considerable
and varied, but not always easily accessible. Soils and climatic conditions
permit cultivation of a wider range of crops, and the forest areas of the
Southeast contain large untapped timber resources. The North holds promising
potential for livestock development. The main opportunities for development
in Cameroon lie in the expansion of agricultural production, including for-
estry, and the processing of agricultural and forestry products for export.
Offshore oil and gas exploration has yielded modest results. Trade, trans-
portation and transit services are other important economic activities.
Cameroon's main economic centers are separated by vast underpopulated areas;
furthermore, the country's transport facilities also serve landlocked Chad.
As a result, a large port and inland transport infrastructure are essential
for promoting agriculture, forestry and industry, and strengthening Cameroon's
role as a regional trade center.
Past Performance
4.        During the Second Plan period (1966-1971), GDP increased at a high
rate cf 7.6 percent per annum. However, during the Third Plan period (1971-
1976), output grew at only 2.5 percent per annum partly because of the
drought which affected the North of Cameroon in 1972 and 1973 and the impact
of worldwide recession and unfavorable terms of trade, partly because of
serious difficulties in maintaining and expanding Cameroon's main tree crops
which have been compounded by the failure of producer prices to keep up with
those of competing food cash crops and inputs, and partly because of the



- 2 -
limited size, early saturation, and slow expansion of the domestic market
for import substituting manufactures. Terms of trade improved during 1966-
1971 but deteriorated during 1971-1976. As a result, gross domestic income
increased faster than GDP at 8.3 percent per annum during 1966-1971, but
grew only by 2.4 percent per annum during 1971-1976. Population growth
is estimated at about 1.8 percent per annum in the 1960's, about 1.9 percent
until the mid 1970's and about 2.3 percent from 1975-1980. Per capita GNP
reached about US$300 in 1976.
5.        During the 1960's, a confluence of a number of favorable factors
led to the high growth of output and income. Agriculture, accounting for
about one-third of GDP, increased alt a rate of 5.5 percent per annum during
1966-1971. Most agricultural crops (except cotton, rubber, millet/sorghum),
livestock, fishing and forestry experienced high growth rates thanks to
favorable supply and demand conditions such as high domestic income growth,
favorable producer prices, and rapid economic expansion abroad. For example
the 1960's although Cameroon already faced the problem of the increasing age
of its cocoa and coffee trees, supply was still able to increase reflecting
the high amount of new planting during the 1950's and early 1960's. In
addition, the Government was able to maintain adequate cocoa producer prices
even when export prices dropped thanks to the reserves built up earlier in the
cocoa stabilization fund. Manufacturing and mining, accounting for 11 percent
of GDP, increased at 10 percent per annum during 1966-1971 due mainly to the
rapid development of import substitution industries, particularly manufactured
consumer goods, facilitated by the high rate of domestic income growth and
the availability of foreign exchange. for the purchase of inputs and inter-
mediate goods. The high rate of expansion of productive activities was
accompanied by the rapid growth of construction activities, public administra-
tion and other services.
6.        In contrast, during the Third Plan period, a number of external and
internal factors led to a much reduced growth in output and income. Agricul-
tural growth declined to only 3.6 percent per annum, influenced particularly
by commercial crops (1.3 percent per annum, or less than one-tenth of the
preceding rate), while on the other hand, production of the main subsistence
food crops expanded at about 6 percent per annum reflecting increasing demand
and high prices for such crops in urban areas. Growth in commercial forestry
production declined sharply due to reduced Western European demand, lower
domestic construction activities, and some transportation bottlenecks, while
the drought cut growth in livestock production (mainly cattle in the North)
from 7.2 percent to 3.3 percent per annum. Cocoa and Arabica coffee, account-
ing for about 55 percent of commercial crops, actually decreased in produc-
tion, mainly because of the failure of cocoa producer prices to keep up with
those of competing food cash crops, the termination of the fertilizer subsidy
program for Arabica coffee with the end of the supporting foreign assistance,
the increasing age of cocoa and coffee trees, unfavorable climatic conditions
in some years, and inadequate Government services to counter the black pod
disease of the cocoa trees. For the other main commercial crops, the declin-
ing trend in cotton experienced in the earlier Plan period was reversed in
large part through the efforts of SO]DECOTON, a specialized public enterprise;



- 3 -
reversal from decline to growth in rubber and an acceleration in growth of
oil palm were facilitated by two plantation projects assisted by the World
Bank Group and other co-donors. Growth in manufacturing slowed, following
the first wave of import substitution. With rising costs and expanded
claims on available public revenues, real growth in public administration
was also reduced below the 1966-1971 rate. Construction actually declined
during 1971-1976 and with a deceleration in exports, near stagnation in
imports and the low growth in real income throughout the economy, other
services (mainly trade and transport) increased only at one percent per
annum.
Investment and Savings
7.        During the Second Plan period (1966-1971), the investment rate,
including increases in stocks, exceeded 16 percent of GDP, and gross domestic
savings and gross national savings were respectively 13.4 and 12.6 percent
of GDP. Foreign resources financed about 33 percent of investment during
this period. During the Third Plan period, despite slow income growth,
investment rate increased to 18.1 percent of GDP, as the share of public
investment increased to almost 70 percent of total fixed investment. Gross
domestic savings and gross national saving rose to 16.4 and 13.9 percent of
GDP, but debt service increased by 60 percent. External resources therefore
continued to finance about one-third of total investment during this period.
This substantial improvement in savings during 1971-1976 was due to a drastic
reduction in the real growth of consumption, particularly private consumption,
to less than 2 percent per annum during 1966-1971. One of the prices paid for
the substantial improvement in savings was, however, a limitation on farmer's
earnings in tree crops, which provided inadequate incentives to induce farmers
to obtain more output from the existing stock and to do sufficient treatment
and new plantings to maintain and expand production capacity. The maintenance
of a high investment rate during a period of low output growth resulted in an
apparent reduction in efficiency of investment. Some reduction in capital
productivity was also attributable to investments, such as oil exploration,
which would lead to production only a number of years later, investment in
transport infrastructure (about 20 percent of total investment) which would
result in increased output through the years, and social infrastructure
investments which would likely increase welfare more rapidly than output.
During this period there was considerable progress in the development of high
level human skills. For example, the number of physicians increased by
more than 50 percent (decreasing the population per physician rate to about
20,000), dentists more than doubled and pharmacists increased by more than 5
times.
Public Finance and Balance of Payments
8.        Budgetary revenue was respectively 16.6 and 17.2 percent of GDP
during 1966-1971 and 1971-76, while gross public savings after debt service in
total public investment declined from about 39 percent in 1966-1971 to about
36 percent in 1971-1976. The balance of payments was not a major constraint
until recent years. However, imports increased rapidly in 1975 and 1976 as



a result of world-wide inflation and heavy public development expenditure,
especially in capital goods. At the same time, agricultural exports declined,
particularly exports of cocoa and timber, causing sizeable current account
deficits. The bulk of the current account deficits was financed by net
capital inflows but a substantial drawdown of international reserves was
also made in 1975. Therefore, net official international reserves decreased
from more than 2 months in 1974 to less than one month of imports in 1975.
In 1977, exports recovered substantially (by 35 percent) but imports also
increased (by 28.5 percent) because of economic recovery and expanded invest-
ment. Gross official international reserves were rebuilt in 1976 and 1977, in
part by the use of IMF credit (Oil Facilities and Compensatory Financing), but
net official international reserves continued to be less than one month of
imports in 1977. This was a low level by international standards but still
acceptable considering Cameroon's membership in the Central African Monetary
Union.
Development Issues and Prospects
9.        Cameroon's main medium and long term potential lies in the develop-
ment, through both industrial plantations and small holders, of a diversified
agricultural sector, comprising export crops and domestic food crops to feed
the growing urban population and replace imports, particularly of grains.
Implementation of such a strategy depends on an appropriate mix of public
intervention and support and price and policy measures to stimulate private
initiative; net financial returns to the public sector are more difficult
to capture than in a less diversifieid foreign trade-oriented strategy.
Factors which complicate the agricultural development effort further in
Cameroon are the extensive dispersion of its main economic and population
centers separated by vast underpopulated areas, its regional and institutional
diversity, the competition between export and cash food crops for the dwind-
ling agricultural labor in some parts of the country, the dependence of a
substantial part of public revenue and savings on cocoa and coffee, and
the limited availability of skilled agricultural agents and administrators.
Through its technical assistance and education projects and through its
normal project work, the World Bank Group is supporting Cameroon's effort in
manpower training and development in public services in agriculture, as well
as other sectors.  In industry the Government has moved to channel more
financial resources for investment directly through the public sector, in
addition to the indirect support provrided by tax incentive and other measures,
which have been in existence for many years. The Government has actively
participated in a World Bank Group study of the manufacturing sector whose
results will help to identify bottlenecks and opportunities to develop exist-
ing as well as new industrial activities.
10.       In the medium term, GDP growth will accelerate substantially because
of recovery in cocoa, Robusta coffee and logs, spurred by high international
commodity prices, further expansion in most other commercial and food crops,
increase in manufacturing and mining production and rapid growth in construc-
tion activities and services resulting from expanded investment activities
and rapid income growth. The outlook for considerable agricultural growth



during 1976-1981 is based on the maintenance of cocoa output at near the
previous peak level for a number of years, recovery for Robusta coffee,
continuing expansion for Arabica coffee, cotton, rubber, oil palm and most
other commercial and food crops and livestock production, and continuing
recovery, then further expansion of commercial forestry production.   This
projection is also based on assessment of the medium-term outlook for
Cameroon's exports, projects under implementation, and certain policy
alternatives. Continuing growth of manufacturing production from existing
and expanded facilities, particularly in food, beverages and construction
materials, and new mining and manufacturing output of crude oil, sugar, paper
pulp and other products, are projected to result in a marked improvement in
manufacturing and mining growth during 1976-1981. With high growth in the
productive and investment activities, construction and services are also
expected to increase at a high rate.
11.       Long-term growth in the 1980's is projected to be somewhat con-
strained because the expected high investment rate during 1976-1981 is not
likely to be sustainable due to worsening terms of trade, at least through
the 1980's, and the necessity of prudent debt management to maintain the
country's long-term capacity to borrow. Growth prospects will be importantly
influenced by the extent to which Cameroon succeeds in the difficult task of
maintaining and expanding the country's main traditional export crops, cocoa
and coffee, and the large-scale development of still unexploited forestry
resources. Results of studies on the forestry potential, forestry sector
development policy, investment plans and transport requirements, many of
which are part of World Bank Group projects, will support the latter devel-
opment. In addition, there are still uncertain indications for the exploita-
tion of iron ore, but with heavy investment requirements, and long lead times
to establish commercially viable export operations, production could probably
not begin until the end of the 1980's.
Fourth Development Plan (1976-1981)
12.       Cameroon is implementing its Fourth Economic and Social Develop-
ment Plan. Private investment is included in the Plan, and is encouraged,
under Government guidelines, to expand production capacity in agriculture,
forestry, mining and manufacturing. A part of financing of private invest-
ment activities, however, will be publicly guaranteed borrowing. The Plan
investment program of some US$3.1 billion (in 1974/75 prices) is about
80 percent higher in real terms than the estimated level achieved during
the last Plan period and almost triple previous Plan expenditure in
nominal terms. The Plan gives greater emphasis to agricultural development
(about 16 percent of total investment), power (11 percent, mainly the Song
Loulou hydroelectric scheme), manufacturing and mining (22 percent with a
substantial part in oil exploitation, refining and storage), transport
infrastructure (26 percent), urban development and low-cost housing (7 per-
cent) and social infrastructure (7 percent). Public investment is expected
to account for 73 percent of total investment. However, because of the high
dependence of public revenue and savings on cocoa and coffee prices, which
are projected to decline substantially from their record levels in the
last three years (1979-1981) of the Fourth Plan while import prices are



- 6 -
expected to continue their inexorable rise, and of the need for adequate
producer prices to provide sufficient incentives for production and new
plantings to farmers, and because of the need to keep supplementary borrow-
ing at commercial terms at prudent levels to maintain Cameroon's long-term
capacity to borrow, public investment should be reduced by 10-20 percent from
the planned level. The investment rate during the Fourth Plan period would
then be about 22 percent of GDP, and total investment in current prices would
be US$3.4 - 3.7 billion or about US$690-740 million per year.
Financial Prospect and Creditworthiness
13.       In the first two years of the Fourth Plan period (July 1976 - June
1978), thanks to favorable terms of trade, public savings after debt service
would finance about 65 percent of total public investment. However, in the
last three years (July 1978 - June 1981), public savings after debt service
are projected to finance only about 30 percent of total public investment
and this share of domestic public fiinancing is likely to continue in the
longer run. Cameroon will thus have to rely increasingly on external
financing for the bulk of its public investment, and foreign official lenders
should continue to finance a high proportion of total project costs of ex-
ternally financed projects, including local costs in appropriate cases.
An increasing reliance on foreign borrowing during a period of deteriorating
terms of trade will require careful external debt management. Cameroon con-
tinues to be creditworthy for World Blank financing on the basis of its ability
to maintain and improve productivity in the utilization in the country's re-
sources in the medium term and its potential in the long term further to
diversify the economy by developing still unexploited resources. On the
reasonable assumption that at least 50 percent of foreign public capital
will be on concessionary terms, the foreign debt service ratio, 5.9 of export
earnings in 1976, could be maintained below 13 percent by 1983.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
14.       The Bank Group's commitments in Cameroon now amount to US$363.6
million and cover 27 projects: twelve in agriculture, nine in transporta-
tion, three in education, one in public utilities, one small- and medium-
scale enterprise project, and one technical assistance project. Transpor-
tation represents the largest share (44 percent) of our past commitments
followed by agriculture (42 percent). Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of Bank loans and IDA credits as of December 31, 1977 and includes
notes on ongoing projects. Although delays and setbacks have been occa-
sionally encountered in the execution of projects, the Government has con-
sistently shown willingness to collaborate with the Bank in finding solu-
tions to such problems.
15.       For the future, the Bank Group's strategy is to support the Govern-
ment in its effort to increase agricultural production, including export-
oriented crops, and in the process create productive employment in rural
areas; upgrade and improve the operation and maintenance of the country's



- 7 -
infrastructure; to stimulate investment by local entrepreneurs and increase
employment in urban areas; and to increase the efficiency of Cameroon's in-
stitutions.
16.       Bank Group assistance to Cameroon supports the priority the Govern-
ment rightly attaches to the regional distribution of agricultural development
and to a sound balance between improving conditions in the traditional sector
and promoting plantation agriculture, including smallholder schemes. We
have thus helped the Government create an effective and well-managed planta-
tion sector by financing oil palm and rubber plantations in the South and
west, the latter including the first CAMDEV project. At the same time, we
have assisted in promoting smallholder rice irrigation in the North. The
ongoing cocoa project is helping to modernize smallholder cocoa growing and to
raise rural productivity in areas south and west of the capital. The rubber
project of 1975 is aiding development of the Southwest coastal region. Rural
development projects in populated but poor regions are being established with
the assistance of the Bank. The Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project
will help finance studies and three-year trial activities required before a
full-scale rural development program can be launched. The Rural Development
Fund Project is designed to help the Government establish the machinery for
processing and implementing small-scale rural development schemes initially
in the north. The ZAPI-East Integrated Rural Development Project has recently
been approved. The Second SOCAPALM Project and the Second CAMDEV project are
follow-up operation to successful oil palm projects, SOCAPALM I and CAMDEV I.
Increased Bank Group lending for agriculture will support the Government's
effort to focus on rural development in order to improve income distribution
and to achieve a better balance in regional development, as well as promoting
much needed foodstuff production. The proposed project would also fit well
into this strategy.
17.       Recognizing the crucial importance of transportation to economic
growth in Cameroon and in neighboring countries, the Government has devoted
the largest portion of public investment to this sector. The Bank Group,
together with bilateral institutions, has substantially aided development
of adequate transport facilities. The First and Second Highway Projects were
designed to help complete the country's basic trunk road system. The latter
project encountered severe cost overruns which were partly alleviated by a
Supplementary Credit approved in March 1976 as well as by the elimination
of the reconstruction of the Garoua-Figuil section from the project. This
section is now being financed under the recently approved Third Highway
project. The Second Railway Project of 1974 has focused on track improve-
ment and expansion of the equipment needed to maintain and augment the rail-
way's overall carrying capacity. Given projected sharp traffic increases,
and the backlog of required investments, substantial capital outlays are
still necessary particularly for the expansion of the Port of Douala, which
is being assisted by a Bank loan and IDA credit, and for some related facil-
ities such as a railway station and marshalling yard to be built outside 
the port area. An engineering loan, approved in May 1976, will help com-
plete the engineering of this station and marshalling yard. A study of



- 8 -
the improvements required in the Dotuala-Yaounde transport corridor which
was financed under a Bank project arLd designed to help determine an eco-
nomically optimal investment strategy for this corridor, has led to a pro-
posed investment package that is being discussed between the Government and
a number of aid-giving agencies, including the Bank. Future road investments
should place greater emphasis on road maintenance and on developing the net-
work of feeder and farm access roads. Our future operations in the road
sector have been planned accordingly. The recently approved Feeder Roads
Project would establish institutions for feeder road administration and
maintenance in addition to providing the necessary resources for a feeder
road program to support high priority agricultural/ rural development proj-
ects. The proposed Fourth Highway Project, which is currently under prep-
aration, will concentrate on road maintenance and rehabilitation. In other
sectors, the Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project, approved in 1975,
focuses mainly on developing local entrepreneurship. A Third Education
Project, approved in April 1976, places special emphasis on rural education
and training.
18.       In all our projects we include, as needed, training, technical
assistance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening institutions
and improving sector policies. The Technical Assistance Project approved
in June 1977 will help strengthen Government services in several key minis-
tries involved in investment planning, policy analysis and project processing.
In addition, through our economic work we will continue to advise the author-
ities, at their request, on development questions in general, and on partic-
ular matters such as economic managemient and problems of industrial and
manpower development. To help achieve the Government's priorities and to
support our future lending strategy will require continuing emphasis on
strengthening the institutional framework, particularly concerning sector
planning, preparation and implementation in transportation and rural and
urban development.
19.       During the second half of the sixties, overall disbursements to
Cameroon amounted to about US$40-45 million a year.  While at the beginning
of this period 65 percent of aid funds were grants, the proportion of loans
slowly increased. A major part of external assistance was provided by France
and was concentrated in infrastructure and productive sectors. The European
Development Fund and European Investment Bank directed their lending mainly
to agriculture, with infrastructure in second place. Bank and IDA disburse-
ments were small during this period. From 1972 to 1976 overall disbursements
of foreign aid increased to about US$90.0 million with one-fifth as grants.
The Bank and IDA's share of these inflows amounted to about 23 percent. Our
lending to Cameroon has been closely coordinated with other donors; in 13 of
our 26 projects, joint or parallel co-financing arrangements have been made.
20.       Public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31, 1976
amounted to US$529.3 million and is projected to reach US$2.1 billion in
1983. Public debt service as a proportion of export earnings amounted to
5.9 percent in 1976 and is projected lto reach 12.4 percent in 1983. At that
time annual foreign aid disbursements may be over US$400.0 million with



- 9 -
only 7 percent consisting of grants. At end-1976 IBRD debt accounted for
10.9 percent of Cameroon's public debt outstanding and disbursed, and 11.4
percent of its public debt service. IDA credits accounted for 12.8 percent
of public debt outstanding and 1.1 percent of public debt service. The Bank
and IDA are expected to account for about 22 percent of total public debt
and 13 percent of public debt service in 1983.
21.       In October 1974, Cameroon became IFC's 100th member.  IFC's first
operation in Cameroon, a US$450,000 underwriting to bring domestic share-
holders into a previously wholly foreign-owned shoe manufacturing company,
was approved in May 1975.  In September 1976, the IFC Board approved an
equity investment of nearly US$900,000 in a foreign-owned rubber estate
(SAFACAM). The investment will assist in the rehabilitation and diversi-
fication of an existing estate that will produce rubber for export and palm
oil for the domestic market. The operation will also facilitate participa-
tion of domestic shareholders in the estate. The second operation, an in-
vestment of up to US$125,000 in the share capital of a promotional company
for maize development.
PART III - THE SECTOR
22.       Agriculture, including forestry and livestock, plays a major role
in the Cameroon economy, providing a livelihood for about 75 percent of the
population and accounting for 35 percent of GDP and over 70 percent of the
value of exports. The agricultural sector can be divided in two major sub-
sectors: traditional agriculture and industrial plantation. The traditional
subsector accounts for over 90 percent of agricultural output. It comprises
some one million smallholders cultivating plots averaging about 1.5 hectares
each using family labor. Smallholders produce foodcrops for subsistence and
for the local market, and cocoa, coffee, cotton and groundnuts for export.
Cattle-raising mainly by nomadic and semi-nomadic pastoralists in northern
Cameroon and the north-central Adamaoua plateau accounts for about 15 percent
of the production of the traditional subsector. The industrial plantation
subsector comprises several large government-owned and a few private indus-
trial estates (foreign-owned) producing mainly palm oil (mainly for domestic
consumption) and rubber (for export). Additionally, the country has vast
forestry resources which are only partially tapped.
23.       Production of foodstuffs expanded over the past five years at an
annual rate of about 6.0 percent, which was ahead of population growth. But
this was due mainly to rapid growth in the output of vegetables, potatoes
and, to some degree, rice in response to growing urban demand. At the same
time, there was stagnation in the output of traditional staples, such as
maize (in the West), plantains, yams, cassava and cocoyams (in the Center-
South) and millet and sorghum in the North (here, production was adversely
affected by the Sahelian drought). Although Cameroon is largely self-suf-
ficient in foodstuffs, imports of wheat and rice (again mainly for urban
consumption) have risen sharply since 1970. Marketing of food crops is
almost exclusively in the hands of private traders, most of whom operate over
limited areas and with a small turnover. Agricultural services are provided
by a variety of Government and parastatal organizations. At Government level,
the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock have primary responsibility for



- 10 -
most aspects of agriculture and animal production, respectively. The para-
statal sector is composed of Development Companies which are charged with
specific agricultural programs or projects usually built around a single
product. They include SODEPA for livestock, SOCAPALM for oil palm, and
SODECAO for cocoa. Some are responsible for all product activities -- pro-
vision of inputs, extension services, processing and marketing -- such as
SODECOTON for cotton and SEMRY for rice, both operating in the North, and
UCCAO for arabica coffee in the West. UCCAO is the executing agency of the
proposed project in the Western Highlands (see para. 32). FONADER, the
National Rural Credit Agency, was created in 1973 to provide credit to farm-
ers, precooperatives and cooperatives, and to appraise, finance and super-
vise a wide variety of rural development programs from insecticides and fer-
tilizer supply to village water supply and irrigation projects.
24.       The Bank supports the Government's efforts to achieve a balance
between the growth of overpopulated traditional areas and of less populated
but potentially productive areas in the South and Southeast. This strategy
involves developing both industrial companies and smallholder schemes.  To
date the Bank has incorporated financing for smallholder schemes within its
financing of industrial companies, has provided a line of credit for small-
scale rural projects through the Rural Development Fund Project, and is
financing three-year trial activites on the Plaine des M'Bo Project in the
expectation of being able to launch a full-scale rural development project.
However, the recently approved ZAPI project will be the first direct financ-
ing by the Bank of a development project in Cameroon designed exclusively for
a specific target group in the rural sector. The Bank's lending in the agri-
cultural sector has three main objectives: firstly, increasing technical
and managerial capabilities, strengthening institutions, and improving sector
policies, mainly through training and technical assistance; secondly, raising
foreign exchange earnings through expanding production and export of agricul-
tural products; and thirdly, increasing the productivity of the overpopulated
and/or particularly poor rural areas. The project which is the subject of
this report is designed to meet these objectives.
25.       As noted, Cameroon's main long term potential continues to lie
in the development, through both industrial plantations and smallholders,
of a diversified agricultural sector comprising tropical export crops, and
domestic food crops to feed the growing urban population and replace imports,
particularly of grains. The foregoing strategy is clearly consistant with
the Fourth Plan's agricultural objectives of (a) reducing regional disparities
and raising farmers' incomes, (b) increasing exports and import replacements,
and (c) alleviating domestic food shortages.
26.       Implementation of such a strategy, which is complicated in any
country, depends on a judicious blend of public intervention and support
combined with price and policy measures to stimulate private initiative.
Pursuit of a diversified agricultural strategy does not have rapid financial
returns, requires strong institutions and the careful definition and phasing
of a wide range of measures. Factors which complicate the matter in Cameroon
are the country's large area and relatively small population, its regional
and institutional diversity, the competition for labor in some parts of the
country between export and cash food crops, and the limited availability of
skilled agricultural agents and administrators.



- 11 -
27.       Further, while the recurrent and investment costs of agricultural
development are a burden on the Government, it is difficult to derive public
revenues from an agricultural policy oriented towards self-sufficiency, since
import and export duties, including "levies", must be replaced by domestic
taxes. Admittedly if output of such crops as groundnuts, palm oil, corn and
staple foods can be expanded sufficiently, markets in neighboring countries
will probably absorb the exportable surplus, but this also would be difficult
to tax. On the other hand, assuming reasonable efficiency, an increase in
supply of food for domestic consumption would help to restrain both the cost
of living and urban wages and salaries, and in the long run contribute to a
more competitive local industry. Development of exports of tropical tree
crops along with production of foodcrops and grains both for export to neigh-
boring countries and domestic consumption is a desirable long run strategy,
but will require substantial strengthening of institutions to obtain improved
levels of farm productivity, particularly when, as estimated, the supply of
youthful rural labor is dwindling. The proposed Western Highlands project
is specifically designed to contribute to the achievement of these goals.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
28.       A report entitled "Appraisal of the Western Highlands Rural Develop-
ment Project - Cameroon" (No. 1780-CM dated March 6, 1978) is being circulated
separately. The project was prepared by Cameroonian and RMWA technicians and
was appraised in May - June 1977. Negotiations for the loan were held in
Washington from January 23, 1978 to February 3, 1978 with a Cameroonian dele-
gation headed by H. E. Benoit Bindzi, Ambassador of the United Republic of
Cameroon in Washington.
Background and Purposes
29.       The Government has asked the Bank Group to finance a rural develop-
ment project which forms part of a larger development program in the Western
Highlands of the country. The Western Highlands are characterized by a high
population density, mountainous terrain and heavy rainfall. The area contains
17 percent of Cameroon's population but only 3 percent of its land area. The
pressure of population on the limited land resources has led to intensive cul-
tivation of nearly 95 percent of the cultivable land, including steep slopes.
The result is that soil fertility has declined and erosion is a serious threat
in large parts of the area.
30.       In the long run, spontaneous emigration and resettlement in adjacent
underpopulated areas will help to alleviate this problem. In the meanwhile,
improvements in agricultural productivity should and can be sought in situ.
For this purpose the proposed project would provide a complementary package
of inputs, techniques and infrastructure aimed at the farming system as a
whole. By developing institutions (including training people) and introduc-
ing appropriate procedures and techniques, the proposed project would improve
the agricultural productivity and thereby incomes and welfare of some 600,000
rural inhabitants with per capita incomes of (US$70), less than 25 percent of
the national average (US$300).



- 12 -
Project Description
31.       The project would consist of:
(a)  strengthening and equipping a newly created Directorate
of Production Services within UCCAO (the cooperative union
of arabica coffee growers), which would be responsible for
extension, pest control, seed production, training, and
field demonstration and trials;
(b)  establishing a training center to train extension agents,
cooperative staff and members, and senior extension staff;
(c) improving field storage facilities for inputs, coffee,
and foodcrops by upgrading 25 existing and constructing
10 new rural service centers;
(d)  establishing a revolving credit fund (to be operated
by UCCAO) which would finance seasonal inputs and small
farm tools and equipment;
(e) constructing about 220 watear points to provide 18,000
rural families with safer and more convenient water
supply. Each water point would also have simple facili-
ties to help smallholders with the washing and fermenta-
tion of coffee;
(f) constructing simple water control works to enable about
400 ha of currently uncultivated bottomlands to be put
into productive use by some 1,300 rural families;
(g) increasing the mechanical coffee grading capacity of
UCCAO from 7,000 tons to 14,000 tons per year and intro-
ducing machines capable of improving coffee quality;
(h) establishing a project mon:itoring unit which would
record changes in a limitedl number of performance
indicators as an aid in improving project implementa-
tion and monitoring the impact of project actions; and
(i) strengthening the planning unit in the Ministry of Agri-
culture to evaluate the proposed project and others.
This unit would also supervise 34 man-months of con-
sultant studies to examine the feasibility and design
of a possible follow up project.
Project Execution
32.       The project, except for evaluation and project preparation activ-
ities, would be managed by UCCAO which is the apex organization of the six
departmental cooperatives operating iLn the arabica coffee-growing areas of
Western Province. It was chosen by the Government to perform agricultural
services to be provided under the project. It has demonstrated its abilities
in cooperative organization, marketing and financial management. It would be



- 13 -
directly responsible for agricultural field services and, for this purpose,
would create a new Directorate of Production Services. Actual implementa-
tion of the bottomland development component, the construction of village
water supply systems and agronomic research would be contracted out to exist-
ing Government agencies specialized in these respective sectors (Section
2.01 (b)(ii) of the draft Project Agreement). Key staff, to include a
Director of the Production Department, a chief of extension and demonstra-
tion services, serving as deputy of the Director of the Production Depart-
ment, a chief of seed production division, a chief of the training services,
a chief of the demonstration unit and a financial controller to supervise all
procurement, would be recruited internationally (as suitable candidates are
not likely to be available locally) and would have qualifications and experi-
ence satisfactory to IDA (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement). The
appointment of the Director of Production Department and chief of extension
and demonstration services would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
33.       Field Services.  UCCAO's Directorate of Production Services would
consist of four units in charge of: extension, pest control, seed production,
and training. Extension would be organized according to the Training and
Visit System which emphasizes: (a) a unified service with a single chain of
command; (b) a systematic program of visits to farmers coordinated with short
training sessions for extension staff dealing with recommendations that can be
applied immediately afterwards; (c) a concentration of effort on key farmers;
and (d) coordination with input supply and credit. The extension service
would have five geographical sectors headed by sector chiefs who would be
based at cooperative service centers. Special units would be responsible for
a field trial and demonstration program and for advice to bottomland farmers.
The Pest Control Unit would be responsible for spraying against antestia, a
major coffee plant pest. It would also supervise farmers in spraying their
coffee trees against anthracnose, the other important coffee plant pest. A
mechanized farm for the production of seed of higher yielding varieties of
maize, potatoes and groundnuts would be created under the project. This farm
would use foundation seed produced by a nearby agricultural research station
or imported.
34.       Training.  A Training Center for about 30 students to be created
under the project would be responsible for recruitment and training of ex-
tension staff as well as of cooperative staff responsible for credit and
input distribution. A unit within the Center would be provided with equip-
ment for producing audiovisual material to be used for farmer education.
35.       Input Distribution and Credit.  UCCAO would be responsible for
procurement of fertilizer and pest control chemicals and sprayers. Credit
for the purchase of such farm inputs and equipment would be made available
to farmers through UCCAO member cooperatives. Distribution of credit in
kind would be the responsibility of the heads of the cooperative service
centers which would be constructed under the project and which would be
under the control of UCCAO member cooperatives (see para. 41).



- 14 -
36.       Village Water Supply and Bottomland Development.  Two units would
be created in the Provincial Department of Rural Works (Genie Rural) of the
Ministry of Agriculture, one to be responsible for the construction of water
points and the other for bottomland development works. A project implementa-
tion agreement between UCCAO and the Directorate of Rural Works of the Min-
istry of Agriulture would regulate the relationship of UCCAO and these two
units and would specify the nature of work to be done and related costs (Sec-
tion 2.01 (a), (b), and (c) of the draft Project Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
37.       Total project costs are es;timated at US$25.0 million including sales
and excise taxes of about US$2.2 million; import duties on items expressly
imported for the project would be waived by Government and have therefore
been excluded from project cost estimates. Foreign expenditures are expected
to account for US$13.0 million or about 52 percent of total project cost.
Estimated price increases occuring after the December 1977 base period would
be about US$3.5 million or 16 percent of base cost estimates plus physical
contingencies.
38.       An IDA credit of US$13.0 million would finance 57 percent of project
cost net of taxes, or 100 percent of foreign expenditures. The credit together
with a part of Government's contribution (US$1.9 million) would finance rural
services which are normally provideci by line agencies of Government. Of this
amount of US$14.9 million, US$0.8 million would go to the Planning Unit of
the Ministry of Agriculture and would cover the cost of establishment and
initial operations of a Project Evaluation Unit as well as the cost of con-
sultant's studies required for the preparation of a further development proj-
ect for the Western Highlands.
39.       Since UCCAO would assume responsibility for rural services in the
project area, it would receive for this purpose the balance of the Credit
and Government's contribution (US$14.1 million) to finance: (a) a Director-
ate of Production Services in UCCAO with four divisions in charge of Exten-
sion, Training, Pest Control and Seed Production (US$10.3 million); (b)
incremental headquaters staff required for project implementation and moni-
toring of project progress (US$1.8 million); (c) constructing the village
water supply system (US$1.3 million); and (d) bottomland development works
(US$0.7 million). The IDA credit wcould finance 8 expatriate specialists'
salaries at an annual cost of US$66,000.00 per man-year, for a total of
US$2.1 million over the four-year period.
40.       The remainder of total project costs - US$10.1 million - would be
financed by Government (US$2.5 million), farmers (US$0.2 million), and UCCAO
(US$7.4 million). Funds thus provided from local sources would finance:
(i) the Revolving Credit Fund (US$4.1 million); and (ii) Cooperative Ser-
vice Centers and industrial machinery and equipment (US$6.0 million). UCCAO
financing would be provided from its reserves which are primarily intended
for price stabilization but may be used for investments in the rural sector
with the approval of the Ministries of Agriculture and Economy and Plan.



- 15 -
41.       The Government agreed to supplement the resources of UCCAO to
establish and operate the Revolving Credit Fund (Section 3.02 (b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). It is expected that these resources
will be provided by FONADER. The Fund would lend to individual cooperative
members at an interest rate equivalent to at least 9 percent per annum (Sec-
tion 2.08 (b) of the draft Project Agreement). FONADER would receive about
4 percent thereof. In addition, a 2 percent is required by law to finance
a National Guarantee Fund. The Revolving Fund would thus earn the spread
between the interest charge of 9 percent and FONADER's fee plus the Guaran-
tee Fund levy (6 percent altogether). On funds provided from UCCAO resources,
the Fund would keep the spread between the 9 percent interest charge and the
Guaranteed Fund levy of 2 percent. Such earnings would be adequate for
meeting the costs of credit administration and for financing further credit
to smallholders.
Cost Recovery
42.       Farmers benefitting directly from the bottomland development com-
ponent would be required to pay an annual participation fee for 10 years.
This would ensure recovery of full development cost plus a nominal rate of
interest at 5 percent per annum interest during the 10 year period. In
addition, for maintenance of developed bottomlands, beneficiaries would be
required either to contribute five working days of labor or to pay a fee per
hectare per year equivalent to labor cost as a maintenance levy. An assur-
ance has been obtained that these arrangements would be incorporated in the
model form of contract under which the developed bottomlands shall be made
available to farmers (Section 4.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement
and Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement).
Procurement
43.       With the exception of contracts under US$100,000 procurement of
goods and services financed by the IDA credit would be under international
competitive bidding procedures; IDA financing of such items is expected to
amount to US$3.2 million. Goods manufactured in Cameroon would be allowed
a preference of 15 percent of c.i.f. price on imported goods, or the level
of applicable import duties, whichever is lower. Items under US$100,000 but
costing US$20,000 or more would be procured on the basis of locally-adver-
tised competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. For contracts of
less than US$20,000, direct procurement on the basis of several quotations
would be allowed up to a total not exceeding US$1.0 million. Civil works in
connection with village water supply and bottomlands development, for which
IDA financing of US$1.6 million is proposed, would be done on force account,
because such works have a low unit cost, are widely dispersed geographically
and are phased over a period of several years with the result that they do
not usually attract foreign bidders. There are at present no private con-
tractors in Cameroon who have experience in this type of work.



- 16 -
Disbursements
44.       The credit would be disbursed to cover:
(a) 100 percent of expatriate staff salaries and related
expenses (US$2.1 million);
(b) 85 percent of operating costs, including training
fellowships and salaries of local staff of UCCAO
newly recruited for extension, production and moni-
toring activities under the project (US$3.6 million);
(c) 90 percent of the cost of civil works and construc-
tion of staff housing for UCCAO's Directorate of
Production Services; the Training Center; the Seed
Production Center; a village water supply system;
and bottomland development (US$3.4 million);
(d) 90 percent of the cost of vehicles and equipment
of the Directorate of Production Services including
vehicles and equipment required of the construction
of a village water supply system and bottomlands works
(US$2.0 million); and
(e) 90 percent of the operating costs of a Project Evalua-
tion Unit to be established in D.E.P., including con-
sultants' services for the preparation of a feasibility
study (US$0.6 million).
US$1.3 million would be unallocated.
45.       Disbursements in respect of categories (a), (b) and (c) above would
be on the basis of a certified stateiment of expenditures. Documents in sup-
port of such statements would be retained by the Borrower and be available
for inspection in the course of projiect supervision. All other disbursements
would be fully documented.
Financial Benefits
46.       Farmers.  Participating farm families would benefit from expanded
employment opportunities through a more intensive cultivation of their
scarce land resources. With the project, labor input would be about 25
percent above what it would otherwise be. Cash incomes would thereby increase
by some 54 percent to a range of US$395-702 per farm family (US$57-98 per
capita) depending on soil quality. This growth in income (on a gross basis)
of 54 percent after 3 years is well in excess of the expected rate of growth
in per capita national income in Cameroon over any three-year period. For
some 1,300 heads of families, who would otherwise have insufficient or no
cultivable land, the bottomland development program would enable them to earn
cash incomes equivalent to US$3.10 per working day, considerably higher than



- 17 -
the legal minimum wage in the project area. Rural families would also derive
important but unquantifiable benefits from erosion control and soil enrichment
measures promoted under the project and in the form of water for domestic
use.
47.       UCCAO's role under the project would principally be to act as an
agent of Government in the management and financial control of rural services
which are presently the direct responsibility of line agencies of Government.
In addition, the project provides a framework in which UCCAO can plan invest-
ments in support of its on-going commercial activities. Such investments -
construction of service centers, management housing, headquarters office and
storage space, expansion in coffee-processing capacity and normal increases
in working capital - are estimated to cost about US$35.0 million during the
10 years following inception of the project. UCCAO's normal commercial activ-
ities would generate enough reserves to allow it to meet these outlays. The
use of such reserves for investment purposes is governed by the Ministries
of Agriculture and Economy and Planning which have both approved the invest-
ment program of UCCAO as incorporated in the proposed project.
48.       Government.  Apart from its contribution to financing smallholder
credit, Government would pass on 12.2 million of the IDA credit to UCCAO as
a grant and, additionally, provide US$1.9 million to finance rural services
during the investment period. Beyond this, further outlays would be required
to keep rural services operating at the levels reached after 4 years of proj-
ect execution. Total Government expenditures during 10 years after starting
the project are estimated at US$35.6 million excluding debt service of US$0.8
million in the same period. These expenditures would be less than Government
receipts made up of the proceeds of the IDA credit (US$13.0 million), export
taxes, and Stabilization Fund levies on incremental project production (US$22.7
million) and excise taxes on expenditures out of increased farm incomes (about
US$4.2 million).
Economic Benefits and Risks
49.       The project addresses itself to the farming system in the Western
Highlands as a whole. Accordingly, project inputs will serve to improve
yields and output for different crops, the composition of which may change
as relative prices change. However, the overall value of incremental output
should not be affected. A subsidiary benefit of project actions is expected
to be a reversal of the decline in arabica coffee production which is the
major cash crop of the region; by the end of the project execution period,
coffee production would be some 3,000 tons above the previous peak production
level attained in 1973.
50.       The project's direct economic benefit would be an increase in the
production of food crops and coffee. At full development, the net economic
value of incremental project production is estimated to be US$9.0 million a
year. The net contribution of the project to foreign exchange earnings,
through export expansion (coffee) and import substitution (rice and maize),
would be about US$3.0 million per year at full development. The economic



- 18 -
rate of return of the project over a 15-year life is estimated at 20 percent.
This includes the costs and benefits of the rural roads to be improved under
the complementary feeder roads project, which was recently approved by IDA.
51.       The major risk that these results might not be obtained would
derive from a decrease in the prospects for the export price of coffee and
delays in establishing an efficient system for the delivery of advice and
inputs to farmers. Sensitivity analysis simulating these occurences by re-
ducing the projected price of coffee by a further 20 percent and by delaying
farmer take-up of project-proposed improvements by a whole year, still gives
a rate of return of 15 percent, which would be satisfactory.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Cameroon and IDA, the draft Project Agreement between IDA and UCCAO, and
the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section I(d)
of the Articles of Agreement of IDA are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
53.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. An additional condition of credit effectiveness would be that
the Director of Production Department and the Chief of extension and demon-
stration services have been appointed (para. 32).
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 15, 1978



-  19  -                                                ANNEUD  I
Page 1 of 4 pages
CAMEROON            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SWEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                      -----   ------                  ----
LANO AREA (THOU KM2)                             CAMEROON **                           NEFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      475*4                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC      1.4                          1960       1970   ESTIMATE           aHANA           IVORY COAST   MALAYSIA
------------------           - -i_-- - I                            --
GNP PER CAPITA (USs)                     100.0*   210.0*    300.0*                430.0*      350.0*       440.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_   ----------  -  _ _   -   _    _ _    - _ _ _ - - - -_ _ _ -- --1
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)             5.7        6.8        7.6                 8-6         5.4        t0.8
POPULATION DENSITY                      12.0       14.0      16.o                36.0         15.0        33.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        36.o       44.0       49.0                64.0         32.0       t85.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          43.5      42.1       40.4                49.8        48.1         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           28.0       23.9       22.0               24.4         23.3        12.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)           ..         ..     142.D/B.             S6.0                    40.8 L
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        35.9      4l.0       41.0                41.5        41.0        58.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.3A       2.?        2.7                3.2          3.1         2.6 /a
POPULATION GROWTH RATE  M                1.8        1.8       1.9k                2
TOTAL                                 1.           .           .                2.6          3.           .
URBAN                                    .        6.1       7.6                 4.5          6.77D      26.9
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           14.9 lb   20-5       28.5                 28.4        28.0        26.9
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        40.0      43.0       42.7                46.9        42.5        44. 7/a
15 TO 64 YEARS                       56.0       54.0       53-8                49.5        54.8         52.t 7a
65 YEARS AND OVER                      4.0        3.0       3.5                 3.6          2.7         3.2 7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8        0.9        0.9                 1.0         0.8         0.s/a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                t.0        1.2         ..                 1.4         0.9         9.67a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..         ..         ..               10.9           ..      222.2 /a
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              .          .-          -                2.0           ..         B.O 7/a
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         2800.0   3300.0 *0                        3300.0      2600.0       2900.:0 /a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          88.0       82.0         ..               S4.0 ;L      12.0        43.o71l
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             ..         ..         ..                6.2           ..         6.o7-ab
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        26.3
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..                             ..          ..        56.0
LOWEST  20S OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..          3.5
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..        u.
DISTRISUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         ..         ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER .HYSICIAN            40      O.o0,0  26220.0 /c                12950.0o  15320.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10X8. 0 75   700   2270.0  IE 070o    2S30.0 A                            ./
POPULA)ION PER HOSPITAL BED            5                        ..              760.0       1150.0       27o.oL.
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          96.0       96.0      104.0 /d            96.0       108.0        110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               59.0       59 .0     64.0                46 0        60.0        49.0/C
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..      23.0 a        ..               Io:oc       1a0 A       20.0 Z
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..         ..         .                   ..          ..         5.5
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        74.0      100.0     100.0                61.0        76.0        89.0/a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       3.0        9.0       11.0               11.0        11.0        34.0 h
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              14.0 /ad  14.0A,~   14.0 L               15.0        13.0        13.0/a
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     23.0       23.0       23.0                23.0         7.0         3.0/a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                   ..       12.0         ..               25.0         20.0        55.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..         ..         ..                  ..         ..          2.3LD
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                         ..         ..         ..                 ..           .        65.oa.d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..        ..         ..                  ..          ..        43.0 j
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..         30.OLS
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVEbS (PER THOU POP)           3.0       36.0       36.0               78.0           ..        41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0        6.0        6.0j               5.0         10.0        27.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           190.0      201.0         ..              338.0        91.0       382.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 ..         ..         ..                 0.4         0.2         4.0
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 20-
NONE                                                      Page 2cf l.pages
42-a  thierwi Sc ro1c. Ioat  for 1960 refer to anW year between 1959 sad 1961, for 1970. between 1968 end 1970, and for West Recent Estimate between
ansd 1975.
315p per capita data ar based on World Dank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basim).
cos'c ,tA Ita sae for Jul-Y/Jue fiscal. years md population dakta Are those at corresponding fiscal1 mdd-years.
tat.iclectedaso the only non-0PEC of a size similar to Cameroon, which endowed with a diversified tropical Production, rea.chno
tie LNP Pc capita targe,t (U0$ 400-600).
TA.k  POOR       196      /A  West iCoteroc. only;    /b1962; including ag-S.uth Camroons under British  dalmlstrstisn;    Ac  G-Overnt bospital4
including rursl hospitsli and medical centers;    /d  13 years for East cmaryon.
22 A7 L 1964-66; /b 13 years for Es.t Ca-rsen,
hSTi RECENT2 ESTTMATO:       A  1972;      Lb  1970-75;    /t  1971;    /d  1969-71 average;            /e  13 years for 9aet Canrson.
HL N     9O      /A   E-1uding unemployed;    /b  Registered, not all practicing in the country;                 L.  i96t -68.
i%  0~ COAiT     1270    /a  Due to ineigration population grwth rate is higher than the rate of natural increase;                     /b  1965-70;           PoRti, of
popuintion under 15 and 65 and over to total. labor force;    /1  Government only, including   uien                        e  1964-66,.
'AA0 1A          122,    /a  West Msleysia;    1b  Registered applicants for work;               Ic  1964-66;    /d  Piped water inside only.
94. August 29, 1977
DEYINIT1I NSOr SOCXwL INDICATOYRS
t.1acArsoito. 1  o,u,2;                                                                        Psaaa Is,t nursina easo,            Ppisin  dIvded by scobar of peaceicing
teal - ta  ,crf-caea c-aprie leg lusd area  nd inland wea.alantclegraduoatsaess  "trat-d- or "teetified' torsos, and
mgric.- -Moo   rce.t   iaaat  of  enoios   rsa weed iaopsrarily Sr peon5-                   awailisry perasenl sitb crat.ing orspeio.
n.tely for crpt, patrs,mrket   birches gardens or is lie fai1se.                            Population tr bospsital bed - Pspulation dieidsd by s-bsr of bsspital beds
avilable Is public sad private gessea-1 and epatlalissd haspiesl and
ANPP.,e caPita (Os$) - ANP Per o-Pita eatimare  at current  arket prices,                        rehabilitatise, a-ter; excludes auraing bones snd ssteblisl,hete  for
c-looltcd by acne convrsist  atbod as Wdsrld lack Atlas (i973-75 bssis);                      acstdi1 sand preventive tars.
1960; 1970 and 197-5 dues.                                                                  Pen ..eita easels of aslsisa   ~ft trmimat)-Coaputed tea energy
squi-lset o f net tad suplis  a-stlbla In scenry par tapis. per dsy;
Popclstitcnaed_ ital acoti.ti;                                                                   available supplies taprise  dosattia prednatien. imPtrts 1Isas apores, and
Popclutio-  (oid-ysur millifo      Au of Juy first:  if not  -eilable, average                   thanges  in steak; net supplies tuolude animal feed, seeds, qua.ttitia  usad
of ru  oed-y-artutiacates; 1460, 1970 and 1975 dais.                                           in food prusessiag and lossees is dIstribution; ceqairmeta wsr  estimated
by PAO base.d at physi.lsgital needs for normal a-tivity anm h.sith consid-
pop,Huti_ den_lty - par square be - Mid-y-a  ptpulaeiu  per squar  killaser                      arieg snvirotinsnta1 teppr-nure, body weights, age and a.. distrib,tinia   of
(ifO  heatare otta  area.                                                                     populstise, and all1-lg 10% fse waste an howasbeld level.
foral.lato   sar                   k.e qur  s of asrit. land - Caputed as sbtw  for            Pelr anits sssly St prstein fgross ser day) - Prsteis  astteet ot per aspita
agril-ecrul lend only.                                                                         set supply ot fud per day; net supply of fsad is defined aso above; esquire-
meeuts for all osestri.s acstblleshd by USEA Eeaaoic gsearab Sarvi.ss
Vital otatlttic,                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~provide for a mi.tenaa mimsosf 60 gra  of  statl p-stsin per day, and
Cr-de hirtb suet pet thousand, -verage - A-1a lIe  birtes per tbos,uand uf                       20 grsa  of animal sod Pulse pretsln, ot shi.h 10 gr-n  ashuld be animal
023-yea  popuiurion; een-yeor  rith-tia  averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                     prtoteI; thess stendarda ars loers than tbhme of 75 gr-m  of tonal p-state
and flo-yea  a--cge ending In 1975 for nest resent estima te,                                  and 23 grosa  of animal pretsin as an average ts, the world, prsptaed by PAO
erode death r-e  net thouta.d. uoe--ua- cAnual deaths par tbutoasd of nid-year                   in the Third Wurld Food  urS-y.
populatIon; toe-year urith-teiC aeae  ending in 19,60 and 1970 and five-                     Par ..pita erneels suppmlydtea animl and pulsa - Protein supply of food
year aveag  ening in 1975 for n.ti recen.t eatimate.                                           derived fra  animalsan  pulse  in grea per day.
Iu,a.t .sortall,eyn rar  C/thou;  A-.d.Io desih  of Infests undsr ons year of age              Dleath rats llthoui ages 1-4 - Aannual deaths per theqassd in age group 1-4
pnr tbousand live hlrths.                                                                      years, ts ahildren in this age group; saggestsd as an indi.tanr of
Life .etctancy at birth fete)     Average n-ber of years of life rmasining at                    asleuntritisa.
birth; atua1y fivs-ysar srges nding In 1960, 1970 And 1975 fsr davalep-
~;rooorecroduct bccc-craL. _;ge , us   fle  daughteras,as  sill11  beer                        Adusederollmen  ratio - -eriar, sbhocl - g-1rsilnt of all ages as per-
in hen norma  reproductivepriod if eeepariences present age-ep-itit                            tentage at primary ethuel-ags populatiia; includes obildre  aged 6-Il ysars
foreIley ra-e  uualy fiv-year -veragec anding is 1960, 1970 and 1971                           but sdjosted fur different lengths of primary educauia; for Coutries witb
f.r deceIopiu   cuties.                                                                        universal edneation, enrollment may seamed 1007. sines sa   pupils sar  below
g2puiution irZ8th',rate (%  - total - Capsad as-ua  grssth rate  of mid-Yssr                     or aboe the sftlais1 schuol sge.
p     fuueo    or 1950o-60 hd7  sand 1970-7.                                           Adiastad eualmorstLo - secondary school - Capatad aso  bv; secondary
Pogla'tion oro'tb rats(.)-ubn- fputed like growth rate of total                                  edutation requires at least tsar yese  of epprsvsd primary imatructite;
poo .rin;di  -tea   defititiona of orhsn  reas  ay affect  -aparbility oP                provides gense-I, ot...tict.a  or teether training inatruntiote for pupils
dora acoa  couttel.                                                                              of 12 ro 17 years of ege; ne-responde..e course AerSaMgnrally s.claded.
(cla  soulabon(7, oftotal  -Ratis of orban to total population; different                 Yersf scboolina procided (finte and seated lewelsl - Total yasre of
definftiona of orb an areas may affeot capeeshility of data  -sgeatis.shsig;a   eadr   ee,eti-tsal   ar,tntion may be partially or
campletelyo selded
Auc uroceoo (pccent(- Children (0-14 years>, atrkiog-age (15-64 years),                  Patsaerollmen  (2 of secondar;-Pttta   sttoeIcld
nod r-tir-d (65 c..ar. asd our, -  perceataget of nid-year pSpulation.                         technical, ind-atria1 or  tehe  progress which operate Indep-ed-na   or a
:csictuocc  rti   - aIc  tpouaIon under 15 acd 65 and ove  te these                             deperctes.re of secondary in-tltutina.
aca   Iih-rogh 64.                                                                     Adult literacy rate 17.7 - Literte adults (able to reed sad welts) asper-
(ceidtede,-c  ratio--(atic of  .poplation onder 15 and 65 and aver to                     -stage of total adult population, aged 15 yearn and aver.
rho 1abac force in ags grouP of 15-64 can
i.,cc(l plancing-acelt,r, (crtnlatio, thou) - Vonoltict noeher of a-ceptror                    l.iouin
c  brchcontol  ecita udtractPic-e of national faily planning prgre                   P         iso n e ro   uhc   Average naher of pers.ona per ro-  it  -cupied
since icception.                                                    coneettional dwell~~~~~~~~~.1iings In urban aress; dwollinge e-1lde non-permanet
lactic pannino-osra itt f narroo  aonsni-bZPert enage  of mrried vaseof              struneree. and o-n-p id Pa rts.
crilid-beoring age (15-44 yearu) who out birth-onrodvIe   eal  married                       Onoupied dellnisg without Piped .ater (%) - Orcpied ro ninldwellings
-etn  ii. u-e age group.                                                                        in urban and rura  areas   itbout inside. or outside piped water facIlitIes
as  ercntae o  al  ocupied dwelIlings
(ucicy-on                                                                                       Acestesti   t  7   f all  ftelliata) - Conventional dwellings with
iccul abor frce (cowand) - if-naaly acti-t person, inludtig armed                         i-cericley in lining quarters an percent of total dwellings to urban and
ncosad uneplond.hot... ecloding%houaeove,students, etc.; definitions                       rural ana
is carla   cutyitn asrnt   sparable.                                                       Rueal d-eIlingacnetdt  ecticitY (                   C9,-  puted  s above for rurel
Lair, focc  In  grolrs(1%) - ogricu1turaI labor force (tn farming, forearry,                      dwellings only.
h'cing and~ fhig) asprtrg of 7 tota  labor forc..
Tc-'uloyed (7. of labor force) -  onploped are usually defined as perasn  ohS
rcable sa  wllIg no tabt a Job, out of a Job o   given, day, ramind se                     gadio rece.ivers (sac thou roep) - All types of recivers for radio brssdCasta
ca(o,and aeting' orh for   specIfied ntlm,nia    period nst ...ceeding sae                to general Publicte   hosn t       f Pspuletia; excludes on1itened receivers
-ne; may nac be caParble hete  contrits due no different defialtionae                           in cantries an  In' yare whet registration sf radie sets was in effect;
ofono-plo-d and suc  of dera, ng.,I aployntr office  tnstiatic, sledata for ret..nt yearys may not be Caparable since inset tsntriea abolished
ocos,opnlsory u-ploynent ins-race.                                                         litana lug.
Passn. e cr(erto    p)-Pasnenger ters capri.e motoc cars seating
Iccas dfatrlbtelo   - Percentege of private incas  (both it Cash and kind)                        lsthan eight persons; smalodee          hls.n  hearses and military
--ci-ed h  rich-sr 5%, riches.t 201, poer202, and poarese 407 ofbue                             seicle..
Acids. -                                                                                       l-tricoty fkhbvc Mr cap) - Annual tonsuaption  of tndustrtal,ce ts
pubiic and private electricity in kilowstt hours pee capita, generally
[(ttrib,iti- of land ewnrship, - P-ttrccrge   of land ownd by wesIthiser I%                        base  on prodctio    data, w:ithu-t eIesanse  for Iss.... in grid. hut silo,.
o-d pooest 107. of land  Iweo                                                                    e  for iports and eaprt  of Is triciCy.
Newprint (ksl/yr per Cap) - Per Ca pita annual c-ensptitn  in hflogrome
-.oslen nd Nutrition                                                                               estimated tea  doeesric prodttion plus net imports ot newsprint.
Paoltnoer physician - Population divided by ntber of practicing
Physice_ qulifIled fra a medical school at utivrersty level.



- 21 -
ANNEX I
to In -  32WrImor UM DTA                                               fte  at of 'Pg
(A a m m  m   El  U.S. dollars)
Actual                       PYa3ct.d       _      1966-   1971 -   1976 -   1978          7     198     18
~~~ ~~~~     ~    ~     ~     ~ I           7     1976~    18        1983     196      198      93
3..Yes Averae at  971/ 17  Prces: & Tch  TR         A'  MP Hates    Gowt Hates          As Percent of osy
'-2.1mestic Product          1,1920252,1.                    ,4.      ,U4.                       -33:Z 50            4:16 3   10.3 9.9         10.
1   from Terms of Trade (a)                                                      T      . J:
rs--,mstic -nccse            t1,4573   2,015. T+4    =:,                                                     5.      1: .UO           To         -2.60
Inpo,rt (incl. HF'S)               498.1,    644.3    663.9      910.3    981.6  1,0o55. 8    6.7     1.3       5.2     2.1        33.5   34.3      32.
isno,-ts   "  (import capacity)    I1         5~3      6          811.2    853.5    92I0.4    7.4     2.2       5.1     1.5        30.2   30.6      28.0
- ca-c.rc  3ap                     .1          90.8      6.4    ---  -'M            13T5.4r    .       .. .                                =.        4.
nsoptsonr Expenijtures         1,253.9  1L,729.6  1,809.6   2,168.1  2,450.3  2,7214.8    8.7       1.7      4.9      4.5       84.3   81.8      82.9
sne,stosent  11  incl. stocks)    184.3      376.2    408.1      582.7    681.7    698.1      .9      2.0     10.2      2.8       12.4   21.9      21.2
,s,~~s:sc Savings ~~~233.3          285.3    4o1.6    1483.3    553.7    562.7    6.3        5.7      11.1     2.1        15.7   18.2      17.1
tstiona. 2avs.ngs         ~~~~177.7  242.0    337.5      417.7    473.2   1469.4    7.2      5.1      11.4     1.2        12.0   15.8      14.3
IT,~'MS  TPskn                            Annual Data at C'ereot Price&                                                         As Precent of Total
--morts,
~am  al goods                     40.8      89.1   1144.8      358.0    336.6    464.4   16.9    20.2       I.2.8     8.8       21.7   38.6      314.4
cnherm     oods 4wlfuels)    87.3       133.6    257.2      343.4    510.1    643.9    8.9   1.2.8       14.8    13.1        46.4   37.1      17.7
,lsand related materials        8.3       15.2     52.8      81.3       -        -      12.9    28.7        .       .          4.4    8.8        -
of,ich:  Petroleas,           8.3      15,.2     52.8      81.3       -               12.9    28.7                          4  .1    8.8       -
cotto.goods                 51.6     164.      11.    -   .5      12.    211.1   12.2         8.5     14.8    10.9        _27.1   15.      174
wza   erch~. Imports (ci)             -78 4           4   ~9        1,04[o.5  1,342.4   10.0    1.         30     1.         0.  ~
riary rroducts (gail. fuels'    11.3,6   199.9    458.o      787.8    882.5  1, 105. 7    6.8   1.6.7     12.0    10.1        90.8   96.8      94.5
elss cotd related materials       -                   -                   7.9      7.6      .       .         .       ..                 .         .6
olwhi-ch:  Petroleum-                     -        -          -        1.3       7.6                                                             6        
Vanufctcured goods                14.6       20.9      -2.6      25.7     41.2     57.1    7.1    22.2       16.7    17.3         9.2    3.2       4.9
7-ta. Me,r,e Hausrts (fob)      -77                           -r-    931.6 TT               6.9   1.6.9     12.5      7.7      *T-U T=          'I-7~
Tosrism and Border Trsoe
'"r,,harAise Trade IndiCeS                   Average 1974/75 -100
ixp.srt Price Index               47.7~     57.1    100.0    1.69.6    155.7    173.9    9.8    10.0        10.0       .5
I.pcrt Price Index                43.7      58.9    100.0      134.2    165.6    190. 1'   7.0    15.1       9.0      7.2
Trers of Trade Index              91.9      97.0    100.0      126.4     91.0      91.5    1.8    -1.5         .9   -6.7
Exports Volume index              78.2      93.6    100.       101.3    143.2   1.62.2    1.1       2.1      7.8      8.5
-ALIT ALDDED PY SECTIP           AxunuaJ. Dati at 1974/75 Prices and Exchange Rates           Average Aanual Growth Pates        As Percent of Total
Agriculture                      12.       659.7    733.9      821.8    961.9  1,017.7    5.5       3.6      5.5      4.9       34.7   32.4      11.1
industry and Mining ~/           262.1     374.8    1114.8     518.9    683.2    767.6   10.1       3.1      9.6      8.2       17.1   20.5      22.5
Service                         -722.4     90.   !,063.5   1,9.   1.,411.1  i  ,A      8.2          1.6      5.6      s:        47.1.1           L.
Totali                          ,0       2,032.5  2,212.2   2,539.2  3,1943-371.3    7.6            2.5      6. 4     5.810.
FINANCE                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~As Percent of aLP
,Central Goverrnment,Iurrent prices and exchange rantes)                                                                          2        27
Current Receipts                 129.3     212.9      6: ~      5652    836.0   ..        12.3    JZ7       11.9              1          oz      1.
urrent Exenditures              129.8      188.0    32.          7 6    624.0              73     14         01              17.3      18.2      19.9
Hogtr   avilngs              -.5      24.9      37.5     107.6    212.0    .                 27.6     25.4      .        2.2       3.5      4.7
--ther Pusblic Sector I/          13.8       0.8      74.9     208.0   -26.0      ..                                  .         -       6.2       2.3
iluilic Sector Investment         69.3     120.6    205.5      484.8    573.2    ..       14.8   2,6.1       5.7               9.8     15.6      16.3
US $ million
CP EXP ENDIT'RE DETAILS                  Actual        Prelim.   Est.    Proj.        DETAIL 0NAt1945-   P and EH
As 1~ Total Current Expend.            1-967   12 Z2      1975?   1-qrz    1981         PUBLIC SECTOR                     Fourth  Plan     %6 of  Qta
I-dutation                                  1    8. .7~   21.3      2                    WESF.3POSA                          (1976 /77    198~0 15i.)
Itr.-r SocialI Services                  .7      6.9       8.8      9.1                 Social Sectors                         453.2        20.1
AgrLculture               ~~.6                   3.7       4.1       4.7     ..         Agriculture               ~65.1                     16.2
Othor Economic Serv-ices               11.6      8.0       7.5       8.8     ..         Industry and Mining                     55.9         3.8
Als1.nistraticn and Defense            59.5    59.6       53.0      49.8     ..          Power                                  330.5       14.'
,thar                                   8.8     4.1                                     Transport and communications           858.7         8.
C~otal. Current Expenditures          100.0   100.0      100.0    100.0   100.0         Other  Iedtrs~                                     100.
SELEcTED INDICATORS                               1960-     196 7-    1971-   197 6-       FINANCING
~Calcu.lated from 3-year averaged data)          1965       1971     1976    1981l
Average ICOOP                                               - -3-     ;-      3-             Public Sector Savings              652.0         28.9
::-rport Elasticity                                ..         .8       .54     .89            Local borrowina                    225.0        1' 1
24&rgJnal Domestic Savings Hate                    ..         08       .23     .28            Foreign financir.g               1 10i, 4          :d9
Marg.nl National Savinigs Ratse.                              .08      .14      .24           Total Fi:.sncing 
Total ;~lomet2                                   Value Added Per, WorkEer (10Q        Prices & Rmc. 5hates)
__________                             ~~~~~~~~~~     ~ ~~~ of Total  19 71 -74  In U.S.Do1lare  Percet    A-erge           19   -
19 71      19h        2       17'      Growth Hate         19         19         19         19        Grwhat
..oricuiture                -e,0o52     59,544     31.0       30.6        1.7               .           
:n-~stry' I                  9,52t      68,635~    23.7       23.5        4.7              .
lee-I                   114,jti    134,191       L5.3      45.9         5.5               .
Cota-l                     252,160    292,370    110.0       100.0 o        15
7,ot applizable         ni51  or negligible
n ot avas,lable        - less than half the
smallest urit shown
ly' Including -construction and public utilities
i~er, sec~tor onl'i
-ilic n-stor sa,inga, incloudi..g stabilization fund surplus, less amortization  fpbi   et



- 22 -
SILU                 MIr  AULWAE  AMD  r                             P                          4or 4 PWes
(amat 10 ~la   S r     u.2. d&LIO  at 1ir.mt pAOee?
1. ^_u1
s,r"'A?;~Y 3AL'rC0 2F PA3'3                                          /                                                                  t                                      ..
- .   S)                 3~~~~~~~~~76.0  576.2   624.7      65.          798.9         1,030.4    1,077.3      1,130.8    1.2h44.1     1,399.6    1,557.7        12.0
nc2.0      314.8       703.1       792.0       92583.5       1261.5      1192.0      13410.6     1338.1      1,630       1,783.7        11.6
Cesnl=-^ ~~a:a-ra rX-!1)   4n.4       6~1.        im7T      -14  0      -126.           -131.1I    -11.?       -L89.8       -M.7        -6.1-Zr                    E.9
.~K2       .9.8       -11.3       -14.6       -25.0           .42.4       -49.3       -56.3       -67.1      .73.2       .8.9          25.8
-3.2      -15.5       -27.2       -30.2       .36.2           -399        *45.8       -32.7       -60.6       .69.7      .80.2         14.7
-30.4     441 4       -34.2       -30.4        .31.2          .36.8         ..4        A.4.       -0 69       -33.8       -.59 2       10 4
11.9       6.5        ta.8        25.3         20.6           30.6        33.6        37.0        .0.7        43.5       1.6.6        11.3
.7.5      15.2        24.5        34.5         37 93.8                    71.0        77.5        93.0        10.0       1V,.5       19.5
:    .p  recka ........      11.2      13.9        19.7        30.1        27.             22.4        22.4        22.4        22.4        30.0        30.0         .3
-9.3      50.8        73.0       138.9        211.1          236.3       '34.6       3137.1      249.4       383.2       389. 8      13.6
.7.1       .         -14.3       .20.        -2.3            -5 ..2      .62.2   4 73.                         .4      -1.6          26.2
34.7       9.4        21.3       .3 2                                    -           -           -                       -
-7.5      -8.0       -17.2       -13.2          . 
-19.3       -391 .                                                                                        c3        _
CMsr_- Sn stle   Ftea5..2                30.7       -52.5       4.8           4.4                 aeIn
Uie Dibt Out.*    bared   238.4    274.3    374.6    329.3            2,073.2
U3A' A"' A!'t  13UY307J
',. Gr,-t. & C rt-lik.             41.9       47.8        77.0       ..            ..           Ot t oc Pblic Dbt             9.6      1         1.1 15.3               96.3
Repsents an  bPsIle Debt    15.0      14.0     20.7      21.7        385.6
L.-...                                                                                  Total hulab Debt bz'1to.    24.6       25.1       9.8      41.0        193.9
25.7      34.1         1.0       34.3                        Otbr Debt S-f..{  (.t)        .. 64
73A                                   24.0        -         21.2       25.0           ..            otal Debt Sayls. (not)
ftltr ilatr.-I                       16.3        -         10.8       30.8           ..         aW    on 4aort brunrp (M
10, urert,                           832.3      44.8        99.t       29.4
uruJLOers                               .4        .9          7.1       7.6           .,             blic Dcbt Sayto.            4.6       4.1       3.4       5-9        12. 4
'u_'.,si.l Inai.too r                           64.6       27.8       87.3                        Total Dbbt sh. 
-      ..          ?~~~03Direct Dwat. Ins.         ..        .
P.oL2 [5505 n.s.i.                             _____ l  .20.0
lotal Pso [is Mt:LT  1..              *~148,9    144.3       17         234.            ..         Aege TSw  of Pu2  Debt
Actual Debt Omtstardir4 on De. 31.76                     Dlt. so 9 Prior S_r Wm         4.9       4.7   5 .,          5.2         4.9
_trr_RAL   2WW b a.                                                      Peczt                         Mort. S 9Pr8a.Yea  Mm0h    7.6          5.9       7.5       5.8         5.9
IDlid B..k                                        7                     D9
lDt A6D.7.8                                                            12 8                         ID Debt Olt. & Dib.uud        23.1      28.7      49.7      57.5       263.0
Othber  Iatilatar.l                              39.6                   7.5                          *  a S Pblie Dot O6D          9.7      10.4      13.3      10.9        12.8
r_-n nta                                        190.7                  36.o                             as I Ps4i Debt 3yl.oe    5.6         8.5      10.4      11.14       11.7
5k-lQn-e                                         16.4                   3.1
iasncisl In,tlttti-n.                          143.9                  27.9                        mi Debt  ot. & Dibosd          30.1      34.1      49.9      67.8       183.6
B-nds                                            -                           -                              1 5 ,ie Debt am       12.6      12.1      13.3      12.8         8.9
Pblic Dbt n.e.i                                   9.5                   1.8                         ts S Pohe Debt S ruyc           .7       1.2        .8       1.1         1.0
Tot.a Public KhL. lost                          3D9T                   1W
Other ILLT Dbnt..
3hort-o. Debt (diob. onl.')
.ot .pplis.bl.                                                  st.tt atlta
..mt -tabl. lb       t                                          nil or ugligtbl
ciot-1ilbla        lt-                                             . thl  half th.
b.t ioloded In total                                            Smallet vmIt dormn



ANNEX II
- 23 -                         Page 1 of 7 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of January 31, 1978)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                               Amount
Credit                                                        (less cancellations)
Number    Year   Borrower   Purpose                 Bank          IDA /1  Undisbursed
Five Credits and Seven Loans have been fully         55.7          63.2        -
disbursed
161-CM   1969   Cameroon   Education                             11.7 /2   0.1
320-CM   1972   Cameroon   Education II                            9.0      4.9
935-CM   1973   Cameroon   Roads II                 24.0                   15.2
983-CM   1974   Cameroon   Livestock                11.6                    5.9
1039-CM   1974   Cameroon   Cocoa                     6.5                    3.5
574-CM   1975   HEVECAM    Niete Rubber Project                   16.0     10.8
575-CM   1975   Cameroon   DFC - Small and Medium
Scale Enterprises                 3.0       3.0
S4-CM   1976   REGIFERCAM Railways                  2.3                    1.6
1245T-CM  1976   Cameroon   Education III            17.0                   16.8
657-CM   1976   Cameroon   Second Douala Port                    10.0       2.9
1321-CM   1976   NPAC         Second Douala Port   15.0                     15.0
672-CM   1977   Cameroon   Plaine des M'Bo
Rural Devt.                          2.0       2.0
673-CM   1977   Cameroon   Technical Assistance                    4.5      4.5
723-CM   1977   Cameroon   Rural Devt. Fund                       7.0       7.0
1391T-CM  1977   Cameroon   Second SOCAPALM
Project               7.0                    7.0
1392-CM   1977   Cameroon   Second SOCAPALM
Project              18.0                   18.0
749-CM   1977   Cameroon   Feeder Roads                           6.5 /3   6.5
749-CM   1978   Cameroon   Second SEMRY Rice                      14.5 /3  14.5
1494-CM   1977   Cameroon   Feeder Roads              4.6 /3                 4.6
1508-CM   1977   Cameroon   Second CAMDEV            15.0 /3                15.0
1512-CM   1978   Cameroon   Second SEMRY Rice    14.5 /3                     14.5
1515-CM   1978   Cameroon   Third Highway            16.5 /3                16.5
TOTAL                             207.7        147.4    189.8
of which has been repaid          2.1          5.1
TOTAL now outstanding*            205.6        142.3
Amount sold                  0.2
of which has been repaid  -    0.2
TOTAL now held by Bank
and IDA /1                      205.4        142.4
TOTAL undisbursed                 133.6         56.2    189.8
/1   Prior to exchange adjustment.
/2   Including a Supplementary Credit of US$1.2 million made in 1975.
/3   Not yet effective.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7 pages
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of January  31, 1978)
Equity
311-CM   1975   BATA         Shoe Factory           0.38
355-CM   1977   SAFACAM    Rubber Plantation    0.81
1.19
Less Sold       0.25
Held by IFC    0.94
Unclisbursed     -
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 161, 161-1            First EdtLcation Project:  US$10.5 million Credit
of September 23, 1969; Effectiveness Date:
April 29, 1970; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
(Original Closing Date: June 30, 1974); and US$1.2
million Supplementary Credit of July 30, 1975;
Effective!ness Date: October 30, 1975; Closing
Date: March 31, 1978.
Implementation of this project was slow, especially in the initial
years, due to delays in both the construction and technical assistance pro-
grams. In 1975, a Supplementary Credit of US$1.2 million was approved to
cover cost increases due to currency realignments. Construction of all
buildings and delivery of all furniture and equipment have been completed, and
project accounts are now being finalized. The project was well managed,
particularly as project unit staff gained experience. A completion mission
which visited Cameroon in February 1977 found that project facilities are
generally well adapted to local requirements. However, because enrollments
greatly exceed capacity at some project secondary schools, specialized class-
rooms and laboratories are not always; used as such, thereby reducing the
impact of the project on diversifying secondary education.
Cr. No. 320                   Second Education Project:  US$9.0 million Credit
of June 28, 1972; Effectiveness Date:
February 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Due to difficulties in selecting architects and agreeing on the
designs, project implementation is delayed by thirty months, construction
of the last school is expected to be completed by April 1978.  To allow
full execution of the technical assistance component, an extension of the
closing date from June 30, 1979 to December 31, 1981, is expected. Selection
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7 pages
is now underway of members of the team to assist in launching the programs
of the adult vocational training center financed by the project, and all
specialists should be in post by the beginning of the coming school year.
The project is generally well managed. Following cost overruns due to
currency realignments and the accelerated price increases which have occurred
since 1973, the Government decided to finance the construction of one project
school with its own funds and another project school was transferred to the
Third Education Project (Loan 1245-T).
Cr. No. 429, Ln. No. 935    Second Highway Project:  US$24.0 million Credit
of September 26, 1973; Effectiveness Date:
December 20, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978; and US$24.0 million Loan of same date;
Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Construction of the Pont du Noun-Foumban road (50 km) was completed
satisfactorily in December 1976 and of the Figuil-Mora road (163 km) in July
1977. Construction of the Douala-Pont du NKam road (161 km) is slow and its
completion is delayed by at least one year to July 1978. After a slow execu-
tion of the First Phase of the maintenance study, consultants started the
Second Phase in November 1977. The Government has hired technical assistance
for the Ministries of Equipment and Agriculture. The project has considerably
suffered from the 1973-1974 worldwide inflation, which nearly doubled its
total cost. Consequently, the Government agreed to postpone construction of
the Garoua-Figuil road (95 km). A Supplementary Credit of US$15.0 million was
approved in March 1976 to help alleviate the burden imposed on the Government
by the project's cost overruns.
Ln. No. 983                  Livestock Project:  US$11.6 million Loan of
May 14, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation has progressed satisfactorily, although
some project components are behind schedule. Physical development and the
condition of livestock in two project ranches continues to be very good;
infrastructural works in the third are proceeding on schedule. Following
the bankruptcy of the first contractor, for the construction of two slaughter-
houses SODEPA has signed a new contract with the second lowest evaluated
bidder, TORVALE INTEC COPPAS, Ltd., U.K. Construction work started in August
1977 and is expected to be completed in 19 months. Sixty-six credits have
been disbursed, five more than the number anticipated at appraisal. The
first tsetse-fly eradication campaign ended in March 1977 with satisfactory
results; of the scheduled 160,000 ha, 51,000 ha were not treated because
the ongoing survey indicated there was not need to spray, 90,300 ha have
been freed, and the remainder carried over to the next campaign. Establish-
ment of a permanent 20 km anti-tsetse barrier was scheduled to start by
N"ovember 1977.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1038                  Second Railway Project:  US$16.0 million Loan
to REGIFERCAM of September 18, 1974; Effective-
ness Date: December 18, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1978.
Procurement of main project items has been satisfactory. The track
material was delivered and laid by December 1975, and delivery of rolling
stock was completed in 1976. Technical problems have been encountered with
the foundations of one of the piers of the Japoma bridge. Additional sup-
porting measures have been implemented and permanent monitoring of the
behavior of the bridge and its piers is being prepared. The works will be
completed in Spring 1978. Due to the fluctuation in exchange rates during
project implementation, additional financing was required to cover the cost of
the equipment already ordered and of the reconstruction of the Japoma bridge.
Consequently, the railway has obtained a supplier's credit of US$820,000 to
supplement Bank financing for the rolling stock, and the foreign exchange cost
of the consulting services (US$925,000) originally included in this Second
Railway Project has been transferred to the Third Railway Project financed
under Loan No. S-4. Due to the world slump in the timber market and substan-
tial increases in staff costs in 1974/75, REGIFERCAM experienced difficulty in
attaining the financial covenants included in the Loan Agreement. The Second
Railway Project financial targets were retained for the Third Railway Project
and the Government and REGIFERCAM are carrying out the necessary measures to
achieve the target set for 1978/79. Tariff increases averaging 34 percent
have been implemented since June 1976, and measures to increase productivity
and control operating costs are being taken. REGIFERCAM is thus expected to
achieve the agreed financial targets.
Ln. No. 1039                  Cocoa Project:  US$6.5 million Loan of September 18,
1974; Effectiveness Date: February 26, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The recently instituted system of department-wide cooperatives does
not appear to be working well, although it is too early to form a definite
judgement. Incentives to farmers are now much better; apart from a higher
producer price (CFAF 220/kg compared to CFAF 150 last year) and free fungi-
cide, Government has announced plans to give grants and loans to young farmers
starting new cocoa plantations. SODECAO's management would also be improved
as soon as the choice is made between the two candidates who have been pro-
posed for the post of Director of Sector Operations.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7 pages
Cr. No. 574                   Niete Rubber Estate Prolect:  US$16.0 million
Credit of June 3, 1975; Effectiveness Date:
December 1. 1975; Closing Date: June 30. 1981.
Progress in establishing Niete Rubber Estate has been steady;
planting is in fact slightly behind schedule; some 1,200 ha should be planted
by June 1978, compared with 1,500 assessed at appraisal, but construction work
and land preparation are ahead of schedule. More labor has been available and
hired locally than anticipated and is sufficient up to now; recruitment from
other areas may become necessary soon. The 1977/78 budget, currently under
review, is to be revised to reduce development costs now estimated at 40 per-
cent above appraisal Estimates. The Terms of Reference for the regional mas-
ter plan studies have been drawn up.
Cr. No. 575                   Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project;
US$3.0 million Credit of July 1, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1976 (Original
Effectiveness Date: December 1, 1976; First
Postponement: February 2, 1976; Second Post-
ponement: June 2, 1976); Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The Credit was declared effective on July 30, 1976. At the request
of the Government of the Cameroon, the Association has agreed to reallocate
US$500,00 for the financing of the technical assistance component from July 1,
1977 to December 31, 1978.
After delays owing to problems of interagency coordination, the
project is now progressing satisfactorily. Commitments have been made
and disbursements on the line of credit should start shortly.
Ln. No. 1245-T                Third Education Project:  US$17.0 million
Third Window Loan of July 2, 1976; Effective-
ness Date: December 31, 1976 (Original
Effectiveness Date: October 4, 1976); Closing
Date: December 31. 1981.
The effective date of the Credit was extended three months to allow
for signing of (a) the decree expanding the responsibilities of the Project
Unit, and (b) the contract between the Government and the consulting architects.
Progress on the construction program is now satisfactory: final designs have
been approved and construction has started at one school. Following the
Government's decision subsequent to project appraisal to change the location
of the two upper secondary agricultural schools, a new site in Dschang has
been selected. Members of the agricultural training team have arrived, and
the Government is ahead of schedule in implementing measures to strengthen
agricultural training in Cameroon. Project implementation is expected to
proceed on schedule.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7 pages
Ln. No. S-4                   Douala Railway Station and Marshalling Yard
Engineering Project: US$2.3 million Loan of
June 25, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 5,
1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1979.
The first phase study (feasibility study) has been carried out by
Consultants. The final engineering study did start in end-1977 and will be
completed by September 1978. The Consulting service transferred from the
Second Railway Project are being carried out but additional Technical Assistance
will be still needed to implement the recommendations of the Consultants and
would be financed partly by another donor and partly under a possible Fourth
Bank Project.
Ln. No. 1321                  Second Douala Port Project:  US$15.0 million
Cr. No. 657                   Loan of September 24, 1976; Effectiveness Date:
June 15, 1977; (Original Effectiveness Date:
January 24, 1977); Closing Date: June 30, 1981
and US$10.0 million Credit of same date; Effec-
tiveness Date: June 15, 1977 (Original Effec-
tiveness Date: January 24, 1977); Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Construction started in December 1976 and is proceeding reasonably
well, although there has been a delay in construction of the container berth
due to the need to undertake confirmatory sub soil investigations. A resump-
tion of scheduled progress is expected during 1978. Proposals to incorporate
facilities at the container berth to handle increasing volumes of roll on roll
off traffic have been circulated by the Port Authority to donors. Donors will
also be asked to agree to additional channel dredging under the civil works
contract to enhance project benefits and these proposals will be considered
early in 1978.
Cr. 672                       Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project:
US$2.0 million Credit of February 28, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: August 29, 1977; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1980.
The 1977 season confirms the seriousness of the technical difficul-
ties that must be solved before full-scale development of the plain can take
place. While progress is being made in testing acceptable levels of mechani-
zation, the resolution of agronomic p,roblems, recently compounded by climatic
fluctuations, has lagged. The agronomic program has been redesigned for 1978.
Ln. No. 1392                  Second Socapalm Project:  US$18.0 million Loan and
Ln. No. 1391-T                Third Window Loan:  US$7.0 million of August 25,
1977; Effectiveness Date: November 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The loans were declared effective on November 23, 1977 - the due
date.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7 pages
Cr. 673                      Technical Assistance Project:  US$4.5 million
Credit of June 15. 1977; Projected Effective-
ness Date: November 14, 1977 (Original Effec-
tiveness Date: September 13, 1977); Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
The effective date of the Credit was extended from September 13 to
November 14, 1977 to allow for the recruitment of a senior economist by the
Ministry of Agriculture and the Credit was declared effective on that date.
Progress in project coordination and in recruiting long-term advisory consul-
tants is coming about slowly but is now expected to take place more rapidly
in parallel with the recent presentation of a comprehensive action program by
government. Several project-related studies are under active consideration
for financing under the Project.
Cr. No. 723                  Rural Development Fund Project:  US$7.0 million
Credit of August 4, 1977; Prolected Effective-
ness Date: January 31, 1978 (Original Effec-
tiveness date: December 2. 1977); Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is not yet effective but Government and FONADER are
actively taking measures to meet all prerequisites to that effect. In
particular, the Fonds Special d'Actions Rurales (FSAR) has been created,
the FSAR's bank account has been opened and the required deposit of funds
made, and the Chief Operations Officer has been appointed. It only remains
to select and appoint the FSAR Director. The credit specialist has been
appointed with IDA's approval. FONADER is actively proceeding with the
selection of candidates for other key project posts.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)       Time taken to prepare proJect:  6 months including land
survey;
(b)       Project prepared by:  RMWA and Cameroonian Government tech-
nicians;
(c)       Documents sent to Bank:  February 1977;
(d)       Departure Appraisal Mission:  May 9, 1977;
(e)       Negotiations completed:  February 3, 1978;
(f)       Planned date of effectiveness:  end of June 1978.
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
Post-negotiation mission scheduled for June/July 1977 which would complete
formalities for hiring of key management personnel.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        Key staff, to include a Director of the Production Department, a
chief of extension and demonstration services, a chief of seed production
division, a chief of the training services, a chief of the demonstration unit
and a financial controller with qualiLfications and experience satisfactory to
IDA have to be appointed (para. 32).
2.        Actual implementation of the bottomland development component, the
construction of village water supply systems and agronomic research would
be contracted out to existing Government agencies specialized in these re-
spective sectors (paras. 32 and 36).
3.        The Government will supplement the resources of UCCAO to establish
and operate the Revolving Credit Fund which on-lends to individual cooperative
members at an interest rate equivalent to at least 9 percent per annum (para.
41).



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
4.        Development cost is recovered with payments of an annual partici-
pation fee for 10 years and of an annual maintenance fee by the direct bene-
ficiaries of the bottomlands development component (para. 42).
5.        Conditions of effectiveness would be the appointment of the Direc-
tor of Production Department and the chief of extension and demonstration
services to serve as deputy to the Director of Production Department (para.
32).






IBRD 13072
lQ~oQooo5630    1OOC                                                                                           E       O             10'30                                               oOO1100           SEPTEMBER 1977
KILOMETERS          ,            '                                                Western Highlands Rural Development Project                                                                                       /
WESTERN PROVINCE
-600'    f1 J  <   ge l '' r                                              o00             DELIMITATION OF PROJECT AREA
Project area according io administrative boundaries
Physical project area
_ Provincial boundaries                                                                                      /
-.  .  _ _Departmental boundaries
District (Arrondissement) boundaries
- -   -  Chief-dom (Chefferie) boundaries                                                            /
r [ Province headquarters
, Prefecture headquarters j
o     Subprefecture heodquarters                                                   i                              M
C     District headquarters                                        ,'*'
6100'
Note; Chief-dom boundapries shown only in project ares                                      *a ga
"      /                                                                                                          Z                                    _''0 25  30  40
KILOMETERSOL                          20ll20IO  'I
SS,,.   I  OKetem 1 JBanS jS'<l *B]nga~Ingt .
{,30*0@ 0.,, ..;r         /                       i / oo'Z I'  "'_  *
WESTERN PROVINCE    MAIN SOILS GROUPS                                                               Ar-j*                                                  A..                     I
ArlAfvgyf 1                   l   OOandfs/=ghogmBrow   mtsoildsmbP/ m0heero thW/dak  b;e                                                                                            \  {
_ . --, Physical project area                 Bron sois                                                                               .7   -_
boundaryIBlack deposition soils o                                                                               /"s /t,,-
Hydromorphic soils                                                                                                                            1
Province headquarteraBi~ri                                                                                    ~         **
Red ferralitic soils                           I      .      p,-.-''          ~       ..*-
Reworked ferralitic1' soilso:Jmot 
\ -,~~~~~-,."' 
\     N       I                                                            --."JI'BFOSSWV I     'd%aI1-
~Dschang                              BAI U"'A
a3                                                                   ru.,uu~~~~~~~~_  'J S10
~~\ Ctt~~~  .J                   0SanIchoul. ~~ ~~~~    S"x   ~~~' /ngo
:Kekem  ~                         
oBana,  j         *Batgogt
aussa                                                     '                                                                         agol
500~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
of I - Ief,  f In 1- ,,f       O.  --ato eo Th  d----, ~SSa  , the                   I:                                            ,
Ec'UA                                                                                                                    .-. .-.*..---~~~~~~~~~~~hI_1.1 8-ld"
000'0i)'0'                                                                                            1 100'






IBRD 13073
01loo0                            CA0ERON           t                                                     1loo5                j         630-
Western Highlands Rural Development Project
/ ~~T~~E                          WESTERN PROVINCE
@lrl .POPULATION DENSITY AND MAIN ETHNIC GROUPS
BAMILEKE  100 Inhabit-t)
S  BAMILEKE - 1000 lnhabitant.
A5     BAMOUN - 100 Inhabitants
1     BAMOUN - 1000 Inhabitants                                                                                        .        ,
.7 'f    OTHER INHABITANTS                                                    |--
7.30      URBAN POPULATION IN THOUSANDS OF INHABITANTS
..r--    PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                             (
WESTERN "                                     ~~~~~~~~~DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
PR  PPOVICE                        J                            ~ t li PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS                                                             .1'
N ,  *S^^n7G  ,f>YAOUNDE                               4 ; *  PREFECTURE HEADQUARTERS
o. 'YAUNDE                                   K,,keni    OTHER CITIES AND TOWNS
,0.41P'1e I                                                       ROADS
EQU  0 ~~~~~~~~~15                        0 ~~~~~  10       20        30       40                                                                                      50
.                                               KILOMETERSB 1.
MILES,                                                           ..0.
9535                                    5             lB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  2D      3'0                                                               aj
This map has been prepered by the                                        _                                                                                    025
World Bank's staff e,clusi,ely for                                                                    _   5                                                    A   /    .0
the convenience of the readers of                                         ..t0 
the report to v.rhinh ,t a                                                ;ttached,  .                                     '                                  , ^  ',,
bou ndaries showrn on this map                             -.,/        .5.                                                                                            ~S
do not imply, on the part f the                                             B 0.7   (ou               *      .-    u                     a .        toamban
World Rank and ito affiliates, say                                                                                                                   cumber, -
judgment ontelglsau  fN To ...aka                                                         .fJ..                 s, E  tOs~                     s~
any territory or any endorsee t                                                                         .        0aa                                                        h,h
or acceptarce of such boundaries.tB5 7.                                                                         
0au  >rr                                                                  'o (Tn.           3              )        5'30
A'                                     .                                                            J-.
.3 \ \?,t .'^5Ky
5000.5 /   %' ~ <yj  *  /  SS,   7\3t :~--kt  \-  (-  500'
"00,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
B 00'                        'o /                                                                             0                                               1 13                       EMBERj,77
|    9130  z-J  1'   g   * I                      I 1100'            SEPTEMBER 1077






IBRD 13208
0                             ~~~~~~~CAMEROON                                                                                                 NVEB,~1
U  Existing Cooperative StoresWE T R
Upgraded to Service Centers                                            WESERNHIGHLANDS
New Sites for Service Centers                                 RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chief Town of Province
E  Cnief Town of Division                                        Feeder Roads and  Proposed  Service Centers
t~Chief Town of Subdivision
o      Chief Town of District
*  ViIllages
Main Roads                                                                                                                                                                     ENop     aoi
Feeder Roads
Rivers
KILCME FERN                                                                                                                                                                                                    FOUM BAN
0      5               tO~~~~~~~~
MAILES                                            odo
N 
B.e          j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*Mosv                                                ,,,~
loovo Ndeoog                   Buoeodv.                                                                                                                                    v0,0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ndb,100000 009bl
F-g. T-q.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00  D
BAFANG                                                                                                      0~~~~AFUS
\O/   /KEKEM         AN                  BANGNCo-                                                                                                                Gi'L
tAN-                               ANDOU
e~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CIEfoBN   BiGS0



