Report No. 1780-CM                                                            FILE  COPY
Appraisal of
Western Highlands Rural Development Project
Cameroon
March 6, 1977
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
FUI OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                   =           CFAF 245
CFAF I                 =           US$0.0041
CFAF 1,000             =           US$4.1
CFAF 1,000,000         =           US$4081.63
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 hectare                   =           2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)            =           0.624 miles
1 kilogram (kg)             =           2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)          =           2204.6 pounds
1 liter (1)                 =           1.057 US quart
ABBREVIATIONS
BCU               -  Bottomlands Cultivation Unit (UCCAO)
Caisse            -  Coffee Price Stabilization Board
COOPMUT           -  Department of Cooperatives and Mutual Assistance
(Ministry of Agriculture)
DEP               -  Planning Unit - Ministry of Agriculture
DPA               -  Provincial Delegation of Agriculture, Western Province
FONADER           -  National Rural Credit Fund
FTDU              -  Field Trials and Demonstration Unit (UCCAO)
Genie Rural       -  Rural Works Department of Western Province (Ministry
of Agriculture)
IRAF              -  Agricultural and Forestry Research Institute
MIDEVIV           -  Foodcrop Development Agency (Ministry of Agriculture)
ONAREST           -  National Scientific Research Organization
PCU               -  Pest Control Unit (UCCAO)
PMU               -  Project Monitoring Unit (UCCAO)
SPU               -  Seed Production Unit (UCCAO)
UCCAO             - Arabica Coffee Growers' Cooperative Union, Western Province
FISCAL YEAR
UCCAO            January 1 to December 31
Government       July 1 to June 20



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ...............................    i-vii
I.    INTRODUCTION ...................... . ........                  .......      I
II. BACKGROUND ..........  I
A.    General ..........................................                     1
B.    Agricultural Sector .....           ........................ .         2
C.    Institutions .....................................................     2
D.    Agricultural Development Strategy  ............. ...                   4
III.    THE PROJECT  .............             ..............................         5
A.   Project Concept and Project Area .                ................      5
B.    Summary Project Description ......................                     6
C.   Detailed Features  .....            ..........................          8
D.    Organization and Management                .....................      12
IV.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  .............                    15
A. Cost Estimates ........... .   15
B.    Proposed Financing ............ .          ..................         17
C.    Cost Recovery  .......          .............................         20
Do   Procurement  ......................................                    20
E.    Disbursement  ................       ..... ..  .............          20
F.   Accounts and Audit ...............................                     21
V.    YIELDS AND OUTPUT; MARKETS AND PRICES; AND FINANCIAL
IMPACT ON FARMERS, COOPERATIVES AND GOVERNMENT ........                     22
A.    Yields and Output  ................................                   22
B.    Markets and Prices  ...............  .           ................     23
C.    Financial Impact of Project .....              .................      25
VI.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION . ....              ..............      26
VII.    ASSURANCES,  CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION ....                .........     27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
1. Project Area
Table 1    : Estimated Population in Project Area
Table 2    : Climatic Data of Bafoussam
Chart No 17863: Isohyets and Interannual Histograms for Rainfall
2. Project Entities
A.   General
B.   Project Area Institutions
C.   Project Execution
D.   Monitoring and Evaluation
Table 1    : UCCAO - Consolidated Balance Sheets
Table 2    : FONADER - Resources and Outlays
Table 3    : FONADER - Credit Operations in Western Province
Appendix 1 : Job Descriptions - Key Staff
Chart No 18088 - UCCAO Organization of Field Services
Chart No 18089 - UCCAO Proposed Organization Chart
3. Farm and Crop Development*
A.   Introduction
B.   Farm Systems
C.   Improvements under the Project
D.   Farm Budgets, Nutrition, Labor
E.   Major Crops
F.   Phasing, Yields and Production
G.   Field Services and Training
Table 1       Average Farm Crop Composition
Table 2    : Incremental On-Farm Input
Table 3    : Farms in Project Area
Table 4    : Phasing
Table 5    : Yield Projections
Table 6    : Production Projection
Table 7    : Farm Budget - Red Ferralitic Soils
Table 8    : Farm Budget - Black Deposition Soils
Table 9    : Farm Budget - Brown Soils
Table 10   : Farm Budget - Reworked Ferralitic Soils
Chart No 17921: Required and Available Labor
Chart No 17886: Agricultural Timetable
4. Seed Production*
A.   Background
B.   Seed Production under the Project
Table 1       Seed Production



-3-
ANNEXES (Cont'd)
5. Research, Trials and Farm Demonstration*
*A.   Field Trials and Farm Demonstration Program
B.   Reforestation Program
Table I       Proposed Contract Research Topics
6. Cooperative Service Centers*
Table 1       Incremental Storage Requirements
Table 2       Size and Location of Existing Cooperative Stores
Table 3       Location of New/Upgraded Service Centers
Table 4       Distribution of Service Centers
7. Bottomlands Development*
Table 1    : Technical Characteristics of 30 ha Perimeter -
Drainage by Channel Remodelling
Table 2    : Technical Characteristics of 30 ha Perimeter -
Drainage and Flood Protection with Dykes
Table 3    : Technical Characteristics - 10 ha Irrigated
Perimeter
Table 4       Investment Cost
Table 5    : Cost of Bottomland Works
Table 6    : Management Team
Table 7    : Technical Assistance
Table 8    : Farm Budget - 1 ha Bottomland Cultivation
Table 9    : Economic Value of Production
Appendix 1 : Preliminary Inventory of Suitable Bottomlands
8. Village Water Supply*
Table 1    : Number and State of Present Installations
Table 2    : Estimation of Requirements
Table 3    : Location of Proposed Installations
Table 4    : Cost of Spring Collection System
Table 5    : Cost of a Small Piped Supply Scheme
Table 6    : Cost of Equipment
9. Markets and Prices
A.   Coffee
B.   Food Crops
Table 1    : UCCAO - Arabica Production by Cooperative (1969-77)
Table 2    : UCCAO - Producer, F.O.B. and World Market Prices 1961-77
Table 3    : Analysis of Cost per kg of Principal UCCAO Cooperatives
Table 4    : Arabica Coffee - Price Structure and Forecast



-4-
ANNEXES (Cont'd)
Table 5    : Coffee Price Structure (Current Terms)
Table 6    : Terms of Trade - Arabica and Foodcrops
Table 7    : Estimated Costs - Electronic Sorting Machines
Table 8    : Costs and Benefits - Coffee Quality Improvement Measures
Table 9    : Marketable Surplus of Food in Western Province
Table 10   : Food Price and Cost-of-Living Indices in Yaounde
Table 11   : Consumer Prices for Food - Bafoussam
Table 12   : Farmgate Prices for Foodcrops
Table 13   : Economic Farmgate Value - Maize
Table 14      Economic Farmgate Value - Rice
Table 15   : Export Price - Groundnuts
Appendix 1 : Calculation of Coffee Quality Discount
Appendix 2 : Operating Costs of Sorting Machines
Appendix 3 : Note on Size and Design of Pulperies
Chart No. 17864: Design of Depulper
10. Project Costs
Table 1    : Summary of Project Cost
Table 2    : UCCAO - Headquarters Staff and Project Monitoring
Table 3    : Extension Service - General Cost
Table 4    : Field Trial and Demonstration Unit Cost
Table 5    : Bottomland Cultivation Unit Cost
Table 6    : Seed Production Cost
Table 7    : Pest Control Unit Cost
Table 8    : Training Cost
Table 9    : Cooperative Service Centers - Civil Works and Vehicles
and Equipment Costs
Table 10   : UCCAO - Commercial Services:  Industrial Investments
Table 11   : Village Water Supply Cost
Table 12   : Bottomland Development Cost
Table 13   : Project Evaluation and Preparation of Follow-up
Project Costs
11. Financial Aspects
A.   Project Financing
B.   Smallholder Credit
C.   Cash Flows
D.   Accounts and Audit
Table 1    : Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 2    : Revolving Credit Fund - On-Farm Inputs
Table 3    : UCCAO - Consolidated Cash Flow
Table 4    : UCCAO - Projections of Income and Expenditure
Table 5    : Government Cash Flows



-5-
ANNEXES (Cont'd)
12. Economic Benefits and Justification
Table 1    : Net Value of Incremental Production
Table 2    : Economic Rate of Return
Maps  13072
13073
13208
*    Bound separately as Technical Supplements available on request.






CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary and Conclusions
Background
i.        The Government of Cameroon has asked the Bank Group to help finance
a rural development project which forms part of a larger development program
in the Western Highlands of the country. The project was prepared by RMWA
and Cameroonian technicians and this report is based on the findings of an
appraisal mission which visited Cameroon in May-June 1977.
Project Concept and Project Area
ii.       The Western Highlands are characterized by a high population den-
sity, mountainous terrain and heavy rainfall. The area contains 17 percent
of Cameroon's population but only 3 percent of its land area. The pressure
of population on the limited land resources has led to intensive cultivation
of nearly 95 percent of the cultivable land, including steep slopes. The
result is that soil fertility has declined and erosion is a serious threat
in large parts of the area. In the long run, spontaneous emigration and
resettlement in adjacent underpopulated areas will help to alleviate this
problem. In the meanwhile, improvements in agricultural productivity should
and can be sought in situ. For this purpose the proposed project will provide
a complementary package of inputs, techniques and infrastructure aimed at the
farming system as a whole. By developing institutions (including training
people) and introducing appropriate procedures and technique, the proposed
project would improve the agricultural productivity and thereby incomes and
welfare of some 600,000 rural inhabitants with per capita incomes (US$70) less
than 25 percent of the national average (US$300).
Project Description
iii.      The project would consist of:
(a) strengthening and equipping a newly created Directorate
of Production Services within UCCAO (the cooperative
union of arabica coffee growers), which would be responsible
for extension, pest control, seed production, training,
and field demonstration and trials;
(b) establishing a 30-bed training center to train extension
agents, cooperative staff and members, and senior exten-
sion staff;
(c) improving field storage facilities for inputs, coffee,
and foodcrops by upgrading 25 existing and constructing
10 new rural service centers;



- ii -
(d) establishing a revolving credit fund (to be operated by
UCCA0) which would finance seasonal inputs and small
farm tools and equipment;
(e) constructing about 220 water points to provide 18,000
rural families with safer and more convenient water
supply. Each water point would also have simple facil-
ities to help smallholders with the washing and fermenta-
tion of coffee;
(f) constructing simple water control works to enable about
400 ha of currently uncultivated bottomlands to be put
into productive use by some 1,300 rural families;
(g) increasing the mechanical coffee grading capacity of
UCCAO from 7,000 tons to 14,000 tons per year and intro-
ducing machines capable of improving coffee quality;
(h) establishing a project monitoring unit which would
record changes in a limited number of performance indi-
cators as an aid in improving project implementation
and monitoring the impact of project actions; and
(i) strengthening the Planning Unit in the Ministry of
Agriculture to evaluate the proposed and other proj-
ects. The Unit would also contract for 34 man-months
of consultant studies to examine the feasibility and
design of a possible follow-up project.
Project Execution
iv.       The project would be managed by UCCAO which has demonstrated its
abilities in cooperative organization, marketing and financial management.
It would be directly responsible for agricultural field services and, for
this purpose, would create a new Directorate of Production Services. Actual
implementation of the bottomland development component, the construction of
village water supply systems and agronomic research would be contracted out
to existing government agencies specialized in these respective sectors. Key
staff, including a Director of Production Services, an Executive Controller
(who would supervise all procurement), and Head of Training Division, would
be recruited internationally (as suitable candidates are not likely to be
available locally) and would have qualifications and experience satisfactory
to IDA.
v.        Field Services.  UCCAO's Directorate of Production Services would
consist of four units in charge of: extension, pest control, seed production,
and training. Extension would be organized according to the Training and
Visit System which emphasizes: (a) a unified service with a single chain of
command; (b) a systematic program of visits to farmers coordinated with short
training sessions for extension staff dealing with recommendations that
can be applied immediately afterwards; (c) a concentration of effort on key



- iii -
farmers; and (d) coordination with input supply and credit. The extension
service would have five geographical sectors headed by sector chiefs who
would be based at cooperative service centers. Special units would be re-
sponsible for a field trial and demonstration program and for advice to
bottomland farmers.
vi.       Pest Control.  The Pest Control Division would be responsible for
spraying against antestia, a major coffee plant pest. It would also supervise
farmers in spraying their coffee trees against anthracnose, the other impor-
tant coffee plant pest. This division would build upon an existing govern-
ment service.
vii.      Seed Production.  A mechanized farm for the production of seed of
higher yielding varieties of maize, potatoes and groundnuts would be created
under the project. This farm would use foundation seed produced by a nearby
agricultural research station or imported.
viii.     Training.  A Training Center to be created under the project would
be responsible for recruitment and training of extension staff as well as of
cooperative staff responsible for credit and input distribution. A unit
within the center would be provided with equipment for producing audiovisual
material including a mobile cinema van to be used for farmer education.
ix.       Input Distribution and Credit.  UCCAO would be responsible for pro-
curement of fertilizer and pest control chemicals and sprayers. Credit for
the purchase of such farm inputs and equipment would be made available to
farmers through departmental cooperatives. Distribution of credit in kind
would be the responsibility of the heads of the cooperative service centers
which would be constructed under the project and which would be under the
control of departmental cooperatives.
x.        Village Water Supply and Bottomlands Development.  Two units would
be created in the Provincial Department of Rural Works (Genie Rural), one to
be responsible for the construction of water points and the other for bottom-
land development works. A project implementation agreement between UCCAO and
the Directorate of Rural Works in the Ministry of Agriculture, would regulate
the relationship of UCCAO and these two units and would specify the nature of
work to be done and related costs.
Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
xi.       Total project costs are estimated at US$25.0 million including
sales and excise taxes of about US$2.2 million; import duties on items ex-
pressly imported for the project would be waived by Government and have
therefore been excluded from project cost estimates. Foreign expenditures
are expected to account for US$13.0 million or about 52% of total project
cost. Estimated price increases occuring after the December 1977 base period
would be about US$3.5 million or 16% of base cost estimates plus physical con-
tingencies.



- iv -
xii.      An IDA credit of US$13.0 million would finance 57% of project cost
net of taxes or 100% of foreign expenditures. The Credit, together with a
part of Government's contribution (US$1.9 million) would finance rural ser-
vices which are normally provided by line agencies of Government. Of the
total sum of US$14.9 million, US$0.8 million would go to the Planning Unit
of the Ministry of Agriculture and would cover the cost of establishment
and initial operations of a Project Evaluation Unit as well as the cost of
consultant's studies required for the preparation of a further development
project for the Western Highlands. Under the project, UCCAO would assume
responsibility for rural services in the project area and for this purpose
would receive the balance of the Credit and Government contribution (US$14. 1
million) to finance: (a) a Directorate of Production Services in UCCAO with
four divisions in charge of Extension, Training, Pest Control and Seed Pro-
duction (US$10.3 million); (b) incremental headquarters staff required for
project implementation and monitoring of project progress (US$1.8 million);
(c) constructing a village water supply system (US$1.3 million); and (d)
bottomlands development works (US$0.7 million). The remainder of project
cost - US$10.1 million - would be financed by Government (US$2.5 million),
farmers (US$0.2 million), and UCCAO (US$7.4 million). Funds thus provided
from local sources would finance: (i) the Revolving Credit Fund (US$4.1
million) and (ii) Cooperative Service Centers and industrial machinery and
equipment (US$6.0 million). UCCAO financing would be provided from its
reserves which are primarily intended for price stabilization but may be
used for investments in the rural sector with the approval of the Ministries
of Agriculture and Economy and Plan.
xiii.     UCCAO would use Government finance (channelled through FONADER)
to supplement its own reserves in order to create a Revolving Credit Fund.
The ratio of Government financing to UCCAO's own funds in constituting the
Revolving Credit Fund would be about 65:35. The Fund would lend to individ-
ual cooperative members at an interest rate equivalent to 9% per annum, of
which FONADER would receive about 4%. In addition, a 2% charge is required
by law to finance a National Guarantee Fund. The Revolving Fund would thus
earn the spread between the interest charge of 9% and FONADER's fee plus the
Guarantee Fund levy (6% altogether). On funds provided from UCCAO resources,
the Fund would keep the spread between the 9% interest charge and the Guar-
anteed Fund levy of 2%. Such earnings would be adequate for meeting the
costs of credit administration and for financing further credit to small-
holders.
Cost Recovery
xiv.      Farmers benefitting directly from the bottomlands development com-
ponent would be required to pay an annual participation fee of US$56 per hec-
tare (US$17 per farm family) for 10 years. This would ensure recovery of
full development cost plus interest at a nominal rate of 5% per annum during
the 10-year period. In addition, for maintenance of developed bottomlands,
beneficiaries would be required either to contribute five working days of
labor or to pay US$6.50 per hectare per year as a maintenance levy.



-v -
Procurement
xv.       With the exception of contracts under US$100,000 procurement of
goods and services financed by the IDA credit would be under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures; IDA financing of such items is expected
to amount to US$3.2 million. Items under US$100,000 but above US$20,000 would
be procured on the basis of locally-advertised competitive bidding procedures
which would be acceptable to IDA. For contracts of less than US$20,000, direct
procurement on the basis of several quotations would be allowed up to a sum
not exceeding US$1.0 million. Civil works in connection with village water
supply and bottonlands development, for which IDA financing of US$1.6 million
is proposed, would be done on force account. This is because such works have
a low unit cost, are widely dispersed geographically and are phased over a
period of several years with the result that they do not usually attract for-
eign bidders. There are at present no private contractors in Cameroon who
have experience in this type of work. About US$5.1 million of incremental
staff and related operating costs would also be financed by IDA.
Disbursements
xvi.      The IDA credit would cover:
(a)  100% of expatriate staff salaries and related expenses
(US$2.1 million);
(b)  85% of the operating costs, including training fellow-
ships and salaries of newly recruited local staff of
UCCAO's Directorate of Production Services and of in-
cremental headquarters staff (US$3.6 million);
(c)  90% of the cost of civil works and construction of:
staff housing for UCCAO's Directorate of Production
Services; the Training Center; the Seed Production
Center; a village water supply system; and bottomlands
development (US$3.4 million);
(d)  90% (or 100% of c.i.f. cost if imported) of the cost
of vehicles and equipment of the Directorate of Pro-
duction Services including vehicles and equipment
required of the construction of a village water supply
system and bottomlands works (US$2.0 million); and
(e)  90% of the operating costs of a Project Evaluation
Unit to be established in D.E.P., including consul-
tants' services for the preparation of a feasibility
study (US$0.6 million).
US$1.3 million would be unallocated.



- vi -
xvii.     Disbursements in respect of categories (a), (b) and (c) above would
be on the basis of a certified statement of expenditures. Documents in sup-
port of such statements would be retained by the Borrower and be available
for inspection in the course of project supervision. All other disbursements
would be fully documented.
Financial Benefits
xviii.    Farmers.  Participating farm families would benefit from expanded
employment opportunities through a more intensive cultivation of their scarce
land resources. With the project, labor input would be about 25 percent above
what it would otherwise be. Cash incomes would thereby increase by some 54
percent to a range of US$395-702 per farm family (US$57-98 per capita) depend-
ing on soil quality. This growth in income (on a gross basis) of 54% after
3 years is well in excess of the expected rate of growth in per capita national
income in Cameroon over any three-year period. For some 1,300 heads of fami-
lies, who would otherwise have insufficient or no cultivable land, the bottom-
land development program would enable them to earn cash incomes equivalent to
US$3.10 per working day, considerably higher than the legal minimum wage in
the project area. Rural families would also derive important but unquantifi-
able benefits from erosion control and soil enrichment measures promoted under
the project and in the form of water for domestic use.
xix.      UCCAO's role under the project would principally be to act as an
agent of Government in the management and financial control of rural services
which are presently the direct responsibility of line agencies of Government
(para xii). In addition, the project provides a framework in which UCCAO
can plan investments in support of its on-going commercial activities. Such
investments-construction of service centers, management housing, headquarters
office and storage space, expansion in coffee-processing capacity and normal
increases in working capital-are estimated to cost about US$35.0 million be-
tween PYI and PYIO. UCCAO's normal commercial activities would generate
enough reserves to allow it to meet these outlays. The use of such reserves
for investment purposes is governed by the Ministries of Agriculture and
Economy and Plan which have both approved the investment program of UCCAO as
incorporated in the proposed project.
xx.       Government.  Apart from its contribution to financing smallholder
credit (para xxi), Government would pass on the IDA credit to UCCAO as a grant
and, additionally, provide US$1.9 million to finance rural services during the
investment period. Beyond this, further outlays would be required to keep
rural services operating at the levels reached by PY 4. Total Government
expenditures during PY 1 - PY 10 are estimated at US$35.6 million excluding
debt service of US$0.8 million in the same period. These expenditures would
be less than Government receipts made up of the proceeds of the IDA credit
(US$13.0 million), export taxes, and Stabilization Fund levies on incremental
project production (US$22.7 million) and excise taxes on expenditures out of
increased farm incomes (about US$4.2 million).



- vii -
Economic Benefits and Risks
xxi.      The project addresses itself to the farming system as a whole.
Accordingly, project inputs will serve to improve yields and output for
different crops, the composition of which may change as relative prices
change. However, the overall value of incremental output should not be
affected. A subsidiary benefit of project actions is expected to be a
reversal of the decline in arabica coffee production which is the major
cash crop of the region; by PY 9, coffee production would be some 3,000 tons
above the previous peak production level attained in 1973. The project's
direct economic benefit would be an increase in the production of food crops
and coffee. At full development, the net economic value of incremental proj-
ect production is estimated to be US$9.0 million a year. The net contribu-
tion of the project to foreign exchange earnings, through export expansion
(coffee) and import substitution (rice and maize), would be about US$3.0
million per year at full development. The economic rate of return of the
project over a 15-year life is estimated at 20 percent. This includes the
costs and benefits of the rural roads to be improved under the complementary
feeder roads project.
xxii.     The major risk that these results might not be obtained would de-
rive from a decrease in the prospects for the export price of coffee and/or
a delay in establishing an efficient system for the delivery of advice and
inputs to farmers. Sensitivity analysis simulating these occurences by re-
ducing the projected price of coffee by a further 20 percent and by delaying
farmer take-up of project proposed improvements by a whole year still gives
a rate of return of 15 percent, which would be satisfactory.
Recommendation
xxiii.    With assurances and conditions on the points outlined in Chapter
VII, the project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$13.0 million.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Cameroon has requested Bank Group assistance to
finance a rural development project in Western Province. The proposed project
is part of a development program for the Western Highlands, comprising Western
and North-West Provinces. A rural development project focusing on food crops
was identified by the Bank's agriculture sector mission in 1974. Owing to
the importance of coffee in the area, Government preferred a coffee-oriented
project and commissioned a feasibility study along those lines. The resulting
consultants' study, completed in April 1975, was found inappropriate for Bank
financing because of the heavy emphasis on coffee. Subsequently, a balanced
rural development project was prepared jointly by RMWA and Cameroonian techni-
cians in late 1976. The proposed project was appraised by a mission composed
of Messrs. A. Osei, J. Gamba and 0. Honisch (Bank) and K. Egger, C. Redfern
and G. Sivilia (Consultants) which visited Cameroon in May-June 1977.
1.02      There have been 12 Bank Group operations in the agriculture sector
in Cameroon. Three operations involve projects which have been satisfactorily
completed: (i) the first CAMDEV oil palm and rubber project - Loan 490-CM,
US$7.0 million, Credit 100-CM, US$11.0 million, in 1967; (ii) the first
SOCAPALM oil palm project - Loans 593-CM, US$7.9 million in 1969 and 886-CM,
US$1.7 million in 1973; and (iii) the first SEMRY rice project - Credit 302-
CM, US$3.7 million in 1972. Four Bank-Group financed projects are in the
course of implementation and are all progressing satisfactorily: (a) a
livestock project, Loan 938-CM, US$11.6 million in 1974; (b) a cocoa project,
Loan 1039-CM, US$6.5 million in 1975; (c) the Niete rubber project, Credit
574-CM, US$16.0 million in 1975; and (d) the Plaine des M'Bo Rural Develop-
ment Project, Credit 672-CM, US$2.0 million in 1977. The five remaining
operations are loans or credits approved recently: (a) a Technical Assis-
tance Project, Credit 673-CM, US$4.5 million; (b) a second SOCAPALM project,
Bank/Third Window Loans 1391/2 CM, US$25.0 million (both recently declared
effective); and (c) the Rural Development Fund Project, Credit 723-CM, US$7.0
million. Two loans recently approved would continue operations financed ear-
lier by the Bank Group - the SEMRY rice project and CAMDEV's planting program -
and an IDA credit, recently approved, would finance a rural development proj-
ect in the eastern part of the country (ZAPI - East).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Cameroon has a population estimated at 7.6 million (mid 1976) ayd
growing at about 2.3% per annum2  The average population density of 16/km
over a total area of 475,400 km masks a wide range. There are densely
populated regions--the high plateau of the west, the savannah areas of the
northern plains, and the Yaounde-Douala axis--separated by vast under-popu-
lated areas. The natural vegetation ranges from lush tropical rain forests
in the south to sahelian plains in the north, allowing for the cultivation
of a wide range of crops.



-2-
2.02      Per capita income is about US$300 on average, with the absolute
poverty level estimated at about US$75 per capita. In the early 1970's,
growth of real GDP was slow (about 3% p.a.). With some improvement in the
commodity terms of trade and a return to more normal weather, it is expected
that GDP growth during the Fourth Plan Period (1977-81) will average 6% p.a.
The achievement of this target will depend on Cameroon's ability to maintain
the high rate of public investment observed during the period 1972-76.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Agriculture is the dominant sector in the Cameroonian economy,
employing 75% of the population and generating about 35% of GDP and over
70% of the value of exports. Over 90% of agricultural output comes from
the traditional sector, indicating the importance of smallholder production of
the traditional export crops - cocoa, coffee, cotton and groundnuts. In
addition, the 1 million smallholders produce almost all the foodcrops on small
parcels (averaging about 2 ha) using rudimentary tools and family labor for
the most part. There is also an industrial plantation sector, made up of
three government-owned and three privately-operated estates producing palm oil
(mostly for local consumption) and rubber (for export). The country has
considerable forest resources which are underutilized largely because of lack
of transportation facilities. Livestock is an important economic activity
in the North, which has nearly 40% of the national cattle herd (estimated
at 3 million). There is good potential for developing fishery resources both
offshore and inland.
2.04      Foodcrop production has grown much faster than the traditional
export crops. This has been in response to rapidly growing demand in the
urban areas. For a decade, the production terms of trade have consistently
moved against the traditional export crops and in favor of food crops. To
restore incentives to export production, Government has recently adopted
several measures including higher producer prices and input subsidies (para
2.15).
2.05      Farm incomes and services to farmers are unevenly distributed.
The highest income areas are the central savannah and western and coastal
lowlands (US$150 per capita); the poorest are the northern plains and the
western highlands (US$70 per capita) which are densely populated. Rural
sector services, especially extension and credit, are weakest in the poorest
areas.
C. Institutions
2.06      Overall responsibility for development strategy and planning lies
with the Ministry of Economy and Plan, which normally entrusts the planning



- 3 -
and supervision of development programs in the rural sector to the Ministries
of Agriculture and Livestock. Frequently, actual project implementation
is by a state-owned development company (Societe d'Etat) such as SOCAPALM
(plantation and outgrower oil palm), CAMDEV (plantation oil palm and rubber),
HEVECAM (plantation rubber), SODECAO (smallholder cocoa) and SODEPA (live-
stock). Development companies, although under the supervision of a ministry,
operate according to commercial procedures. Other development activities are
carried out by field services of the Ministry of Agriculture.
2.07      The Ministry of Agriculture is represented in each Province by a
delegation from the main directorates - Agriculture, Rural Works, Community
Development, Statistics, and Training. The same structure is repeated at
the next lower administrative level (department). Services to farmers are
provided by technical officers and extension agents, organized by district.
These services are hampered by insufficient and inadequately-trained person-
nel, and by the lack of a coherent work program and the means to implement it.
These services would be reorganized under the project (para 3.07). Some
ancillary services such as crop protection and seedling production for cocoa
and coffee farmers, implemented by the ministry services, are financed by
stabilization boards through the National Rural Credit Fund, FONADER (para
2.09). The Directorate of Cooperatives and Mutual Assistance (COOPMUT) in the
Ministry of Agriculture is charged with promoting cooperative development and
enforcing cooperative legislation--registering cooperatives, supervising
functions such as elections and accounts, and training cooperative officials
and members. COOPMUT's audit function in particular is not satisfactorily
carried out (para 4.14).
2.08      The Union des Cooperatives de Cafe Arabica de l'Ouest, UCCAO, is
the apex organization of the six departmental cooperatives operating in the
arabica coffee-growing areas of Western Province. UCCAO operates under
existing cooperative regulations, enforced by COOPMUT, which provide essen-
tially for a commercially oriented management structure and accounting
system. It is responsible for export marketing and grading of arabica coffee
produced by members of its constituent cooperatives, and also arranges crop
purchase finance for the individual cooperatives and provides central engi-
neering and workshop services. Its major source of income is a 1% commission
on coffee sales and a pro-rata charge for coffee grading. UCCAO's "free
reserves consist of the difference between the f.o.b. price for coffee an
costs to f.o.b., including the producer price and bonus. These reserves are
primarily intended for price stabilization but may be invested in the rural
sector, subject to the prior authorization of the Ministries of Agriculture
and Economy and Plan.   As of December 31, 1977, such free reserves would be
about CFAF 6,900 million (US$28.2 million). UCCAO's management consists of a
General Manager and a Deputy who is also the Finance and Accounting Manager.
Policy is made by a Board of Directors composed primarily of elected officials
from the constituent cooperatives. UCCAO has been well managed in the past,
as evidenced by its operating results over the last few years (Annex 2, Table
2). With the provision of technical assistance to support a newly created
extension service and to strengthen accounting and other headquarters staff
(para 3.18 and 3.26), UCCAO can provide the overall direction needed for the
successful implementation of the proposed project. Further details of UCCAO's
organization and functions are at Annex 2, and its financial prospects
are reviewed in Annex 11.



-4-
2.09      Agricultural research is the responsibility of the Institut de
Recherche Agronome et Forestier (IRAF), which is part of the National Scien-
tific Research Organization (ONAREST). ONAREST covers a wide range of sub-
jects and no hierarchy of priorities has been established. Foodcrop research
has been particularly weak in the past and special efforts are being made in
projects financed by the Bank Group to overcome this (para 3.09).
2.10      The National Fund for Rural Development (FONADER) was created in
1973 and given the dual role of: (a) providing credit to farmers, precoopera-
tives and cooperatives, and (b) appraising, financing and supervising a wide
variety of rural development programs, from insecticides and fertilizer supply
to village water supply and irrigation projects. It operates from its Yaounde
headquarters, relying on the departmental field services of the ministries
concerned for basic evaluation and implementation. The shortcomings of
assuming such widespread responsibilities from a narrow base have now become
apparent; a reorganization plan has been outlined and is presently under
review by Government. This plan suggests concentrating FONADER's activities
on agricultural credit operations with corollary changes in its financial and
operational structure, such as the opening of regional offices, and offering
full agricultural banking services. A detailed organization study, financed
by the European Development Fund (FED), is under way.
2.11      Food crop marketing is almost entirely in private hands.  The
Government recently established the Mission de Developpement des Cultures
Vivrieres (MIDEVIV), an official agency, to alleviate food shortages and high
prices in urban areas. MIDEVIV concentrates on financing construction of
urban markets and operating model farms and a model wholesaling business with
a negligible impact. Marketing of export crops, although physically carried
out by private dealers, is regulated by the Stabilization Funds (Caisses) of
which there is one each for cocoa and coffee. For these crops, the Caisse
receives from (or pays to) exporters the difference between the world price
and the costs of production and marketing (including the producer price and
export taxes). Government intends to reorganize the Caisses and to that end
has established a commodity marketing agency (ONCPB). The eventual functions
of ONCPB would not affect UCCAO which, exceptionally, retains the surplus
earned from its arabica coffee exports (para 2.08).
D. Agricultural Development Strategy
2.12      The Fourth Plan (1976-81) allocates 17% of public investments
to the rural sector (compared to 12% in the previous plan period). Such
investments would be about equally divided both as between smallholder
development projects and industrial plantations and also between invest-
ments for export-crop production and food crop production. The program also
envisages a fairly even distribution of such investments between regions.
2.13      Implicit in the Fourth Plan is a two-pronged strategy.  Because
of the need for increased export revenues and to utilize potentially



-5-
productive natural resources as well as the technical and managerial experience
already acquired by existing organizations, about a quarter of the total pro-
jected investment will be in the further expansion of plantation agriculture,
including promotion of smallholder schemes. The rest of the investment
program is addressed to promote and improve production in the traditional
sector through a variety of means, such as integrated regional development,
settlement schemes, and specific crop promotion. In livestock, a similar
balance between project investment in modern ranch programs and in activities
to improve traditional livestock production is planned.
2.14      Given the objectives of output diversification and regional and
structural balance, Cameroon faces a difficult task in the efficient imple-
mentation of development programs in the traditional sector. This sector's
aborptive capacity is limited, and the design of integrated rural development
projects reaching large numbers of smallholders, such as in the densely
populated Western Highlands, has to include a major institution-building
effort.  Government has stepped up the organization of farmers into groups
(precooperatives and cooperatives) to take a more active role in the develop-
ment process. At the same time, Government has shown its preference for
semiautonomous regional development agencies which have proved more efficient
in the administration of rural development programs than the traditional field
services of the Ministry of Agriculture.
2.15      To encourage the modernization of the traditional sector, various
incentive programs have been instituted - credit for the purchase of modern
tools and inputs, higher producer prices, and subsidies on certain key inputs
including fertilizer and pest control material.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept and Project Area
3.01      Project Concept.  The proposed project is part of a larger program
of development for the overpopulated Western Highlands. For social reasons,
resettlement projects can affect only a small proportion of the population in
the foreseeable future. In the long run, improvements in agricultural pro-
ductivity in situ are required to reduce the pressure of the population on
soil fertility. The major objective of the proposed project is to provide for
the development of institutions, procedures, and techniques capable of im-
proving agricultural production and standards of living of a large number of
small farmers in the project area. The system of multiple intercropping and
the division of labor by sex (para 3.04) rule out development projects based
on a single crop. The proposed project is thus designed to achieve more
intensive cultivation of all crops included in the prevailing farming system,
coupled with measures to prevent erosion and loss of soil fertility. Thus,
apart from increasing foodcrop production, the proposed project would also



reverse the trend of declining coffee production, which began in 1973 (23,000
tons compared to an estimated 11,000 tons in 1977). Similar development
projects in the remaining parts of the Western Highlands are currently being
considered for financing by bilateral aid from the Federal Republic of Germany
and FED.
3.02      Project Area.  The project would be carried out in those parts of the
Western Province which coincide with the arabica-coffee growing areas in which
UCCAO cooperatives exist. The specific geographical division, districts and
traditional chiefd9ms involved--see Map 13072--have a2population density
varying from 56/km in Bamoun Division to over 290/km in the area around
Bafoussam.
3.03      Physical Characteristics.  The project area is on generally high
ground (1,200-1,800 m) with slopes, almost all cultivated, frequently exceed-
ing a 25% gradient. The natural vegetation of rain forest has given way to
cultivated mixes virtually everywhere. In low-lying bottomlands, about 2,000
ha are mostly covered by raffia-palm which is used in construction or tapped
for wine making. The climate has transitional tropical cnaracteristics, with
temperatures and humidity moderated by the high altitude. Mean annual rainfall
is 1,700 - 2,000 mm over a nine-month rainy season (March to November).
Soils, of basaltic or gneiss origin, have a high organic matter content and
are generally classified as having medium to high agricultural value.
3.04      Farm Systems and Land Tenure.  Farm holdings are uniformly small
in the project area; only 23% of holdings exceed 2.0 ha and such holdings
represent less than 32% of cultivated land (Annex 1, para 18). The average
family (seven persons including three working adults) farms 1.3 ha under an
assortment of perennial (mostly coffee) and annual crops (usually for food)
grown for the most part in mixed stands. Women are generally responsible
for food crops and men for cash crops. As a result coffee trees originally
planted in pure stand by men tend to be encroached upon by foodcrops culti-
vated by women. The cropping system involves complex multiple intercropping,
with a large variety of shrubs, trees and grass-type plants all grown on the
same ridge. Controlled weeding and mulching, split ridging, and the variety
of crops all contribute to erosion control and maintenance of soil fertil-
ity. Customary cultivation rights are granted to male heads of family by
the traditional ruler. Land so granted can and is effectively passed from
one generation to the next. No problems of land tenure are expected. In
the allocation of cultivable bottomland areas, which are generally communal
property, traditional rulers would play a major role (para 3.15).
B. Summary Project Description
3.05      The project is designed to increase the productivity, incomes and
welfare of a rural community whose present per capita income is less than
30% of the national average. Over a four-year investment period, about
30,000 such families would benefit from better credit, input delivery,
training, marketing and extension services; at full development (PY 9) all



80,000 families would participate in the project. The proposed project would
also provide a means for channelling cooperative savings into productive
investments in the rural sector (para 4.07). The project would consist of:
(a) strengthening and equipping a newly created Directorate
of Production Services within UCCAO which would be responsible
for extension, pest control, seed production, training, and
field demonstration and trials;
(b) establishing a 30-bed training center to train extension
agents, cooperative staff and members, and senior exten-
sion staff;
(c) improving field storage facilities for inputs, coffee,
and foodcrops by upgrading 25 existing and constructing
10 new rural service centers;
(d) establishing a revolving credit fund to finance seasonal
inputs and small farm tools and equipment;
(e) constructing about 220 water points to provide 18,000
rural families with safe and more convenient water
supply. Each water point would also have simple facil-
ities to help smallholders with the washing and fermen-
tation of coffee;
(f) constructing simple water control works to enable about
400 ha of currently uncultivated bottomlands to be put
into productive use by some 1,300 families;
(g) increasing the mechanical coffee grading capacity of
UCCAO from 7,000 tons to 14,000 tons per year; and in-
troducing machines capable of improving coffee quality;
(h) establishing a project monitoring and evaluation unit
which would record changes in a limited number of perfor-
mance indicators as an aid in improving project implemen-
tation and monitoring the impact of project actions; and
(i) strengthening the Planning Unit in the Ministry of Agri-
culture to enable it to evaluate the proposed and other
projects. This unit would also supervise 34 man-months
of consultants studies to examine the feasibility and
design of a possible follow-up project.
Bank Group financing for a related and complementary project for the improve-
ment of feeder roads in the project area was recently approved. The network
of rural service centers has been planned in coordination with the feeder
roads program (Map 13208).



-8-
C. Detailed Features
Farm and Crop Development (Annex 3)
3.06      Phasing.  Based on past experience of farmers' response to new
technology, average adoption rates are expected to be high. The targets
in terms of the number of farmers having access to improved services and of
crop areas benefitting from better inputs would be as follows:
PY2       PY4       PY 9
Farmers with access to rural service centers    10,000    30,200    81,200
Coffee area under full pest control (ha)           6,000    18,000    46,000
Maize area 1/ under improved seed (ha)              8,100    23,000    60,000
Water points completed                                 67       217        217
Bottomland developed (ha)                              60       400        400
It is expected that the whole of PY 1 would be devoted to critical preparatory
activities, including initial surveys and recruitment of key staff.
3.07      Production Services Directorate.  UCCAO would create a new Director-
ate of Production Services which would be responsible for extension, training,
pest control and seed production. The new extension service would absorb
existing personnel in the project area and recruit and train new agents. A
phased program would increase extension coverage from the present average of
one agent/900 farmers to a level of one agent/400 by the end of the project
period. The service would be equipped with vehicles and radio communication
equipment.
3.08      Extension Recommendations.  Extension work would concentrate on
improvements in (i) plant nutrition, (ii) pest control, (iii) seeds, and (iv)
grain storage at farm level. Special efforts would also be made to improve
coffee washing and fermentation by farmers (para 3.14); to promote erosion
control methods (para 3.09) and to introduce modern farming practices in
developed bottomlands (para 3.15). Fertilizer recommendations would be based
on those established for coffee and maize for which detailed data on agronomic
and economic results are available for the project area. Such data indicate
that present average levels and composition of fertilizer use -- (100 kg/ha
mostly of ammonium sulphate) are inadequate; average consumption would
accordingly be increased to 400 kg/ha at a 3:1 ratio of compound to sulphate.
There are indications that other plants in the cropping system would also
benefit from increased rates of fertilization. The average annual infestation
rate of the two major coffee plant pests,antestia and anthracnose, are re-
spectively 50 and 30%. The proposed pest control unit (PCU) would provide
direct spraying services for the control of antestia. In addition, for
protective spraying against anthracnose, sprayers and appropriate chemicals
1/   On a pure crop basis.



- 9 -
would be made available to farmers under the supervision of PCU. At full
development the equivalent of pure coffee plantations protected against
antestia each year would be about 46,000 ha, and about 31,000 ha against
anthracnose. Improved varieties of maize, groundnuts, and potatoes to be
produced by a new seed production center, financed under the project, would be
sold to farmers. The center would be built around an existing agricultural
station near Foumbot and equipped with agricultural machinery and mechanized
seed handling and conditioning equipment. Foundation maize and groundnut seed
would be procured from the IRAF station at Dschang, and tested varieties of
potato seed stock would be imported. It is intended that the seed production
unit should develop into an independent commercial operation when demand
justifies this (para 3.23). Finally, to reduce post-harvest losses (es-
pecially of maize), estimated at 30%, credit would be provided for the pur-
chase of wire mesh by farmers, who would construct a crib, the design of which
has already been tested in the project area. Food storage and treatment of
stored grain would reduce losses by about half.
3.09      Research and Demonstration.  UCCAO would contract with IRAF for
applied agronomic research into certain selected topics including minimum
tillage, rotations and crop combinations, and production of breeder and
foundation seed. Field trials and demonstration plots would be established by
the Field Trials and Demonstration Unit (FTDU) to be created under the project.
Trials would concentrate on eco-farming models - the integration of productive
trees, shrubs and crops to achieve an ecologically stable farming system - as
a defense against the effects of over-cultivation and excessive rainfall on
soil fertility in mountainous areas. FTDU would introduce techniques based
on similar experiments in Rwanda, including cultivation of crops better
adjusted to less fertile slopes and leguminous crops on exhausted soils, and
various methods of, and species suitable, for mulching. Provision would be
included in the project for financing visits by FTDU staff to Rwanda to study
the successful experiment at first hand. FTDU would have a small three-man
unit for planting and maintaining forest in support of its eco-farming pro-
gram. Nursery materials would come from existing farms run by the Provincial
Forestry Department.
3.10      Training.  To enable the extension program to be carried out effi-
ciently, a new 30-bed capacity training center would be established under the
project (para 3.24). An initial four-months course would be conducted for
newly recruited extension agents, and shorter courses would be conducted for
cooperative staff featuring practical subjects. The training center would
include a-small unit for producing audiovisual and propaganda material to aid
extension agents in their work. This unit would be provided with an offset
press, film making equipment, and a mobile cinema van.
Cooperative Service Centers (Annex 6)
3.11      To improve the services available to cooperative members, a network
of Cooperative Service Centers (CSC), each covering about 3,000 farmers, would
be established under the control of UCCAO cooperatives. A typical CSC would
provide office space for field staff and storage for coffee, food crops,



- 10 -
inputs and farm materials and equipment. Inputs and services could be pur-
chased by all farmers, including those not members of a cooperative. There
exist rudimentary structures which are used by cooperatives for coffee stor-
age; 25 such centers would be upgraded and 10 new ones constructed under the
project. To complement existing cooperative vehicles, an additional 16 trucks
and 13 pick-ups would be purchased under the project to handle crop, input and
personnel transport.
Smallholder Credit (Annex 11)
3.12      The project would establish a Revolving Credit Fund which would be
financed by UCCAO and Government and be administered by UCCAO (paras 4.07 and
4.08). Seasonal credit, repayable in one year, would be given for fertilizer,
improved seed, and chemicals for pest control and seed treatment. Three-year
credits, covering 90% of cost, would be given for the purchase of depulpers,
sprayers and wire netting for the construction of grain storage cribs.
Farmers would make a 10% downpayment on all items purchased with the medium-
term credit facilities. By PY5 the credit fund is expected to amount to CFAF
1.2 billion (US$4.9 million), adequate to finance the seasonal needs of 30,000
farmers.
Village Water Supplies (Annex 8)
3.13      Smallholder washing and fermentation of harvested coffee with
inadequate and polluted water is largely responsible for the prevalence of
"stinking beans," a quality defect which causes UCCAO coffee to be purchased
at a discount. To provide clean water both for human consumption and for
coffee treatment, about 220 water points would be constructed during the
four-year investment period. The water supply network proposed includes
wells, spring-water collection systems, and small and medium piped schemes
based on springs or river offtake.  Te objective would be to have a source
of clean water for each area of 12 km in the less heavily populated areas.
Where population density exceeds 120/km , there would be a water point per
1,400 inhabitants. The project area has an abundance of springs and rivers
wh4ch would facilitate the achievement of these objectives. Cost per bene-
ficiary family (CFAF 18,000 or US$72) is modest; however, since water is
provided without charge by Government (including some 200 installations
presently in the project area), it would be impractical to attempt to recover
costs from direct beneficiaries.
3.14      At each water point, two specially-designed concrete reception tanks
and two washing/fermentation tanks would be constructed to facilitate coffee
treatment. Access to and maintenance of washing troughs would be supervised
by elected cooperative section heads in conjunction with traditional authori-
ties. Largely because of insufficient funds, about 30% of the existing water
supply systems in the project area are out of working order. To ensure
adequate maintenance of both existing water supply systems and those to be
constructed, an assurance would be sought from Government during negotiations



- 11 -
that it would provide, or cause to be provided, the amounts required for
this purpose in each fiscal year.
Bottomlands Development (Annex 7)
3.15      The high population density of the project area has put pressure
on available land resources (1.3 ha cultivated per family, compared to the
national average of 2.0 ha). In spite of this, there exist bottomland areas
with fertile soils which are not at present cultivated because of flooding
during the rainy season.  Through the construction of simple drainage and
flood control works, some 400 ha of such bottomlands would be put into pro-
ductive use by some 1,300 families in plots of 0.2 - 1.0 ha.  Potential sites
have been identified, and the final choice would be made by project management
based on criteria such as population in the vicinity, hydrology and lay of
land, and current use of bottomland. Farmers would participate in the con-
struction, and to facilitate this, plots would be allocated before land
development begins. Cooperative members with large families and landless
youth would be given priority. Since bottomlands are usually communal
property, cultivation rights would be confirmed by the traditional auth-
ority.
3.16      Cost per hectare of development works would be about CFAF 66,000
(US$270) and would not exceed CFAF 165,000 (US$670) in areas needing flood
control dykes. Construction works would be carried out by a Bottomlands
Development Unit (BDU) to be created within Genie Rural, and provided with
equipment procured by UCCAO including a loader tractor, an earth rammer, a
tipper truck and a pick-up. After completion of land preparation, bottomland
farmers would be supervised by a special unit within UCCAO's extension service
(para 3.21).
Industrial Investments (Annex 9)
3.17      Coffee Processing.  After delivery to the cooperatives, parchment
coffee is hulled, graded, and then sorted to eliminate defective beans. At
present, sorting is done in the urban areas where cooperatives have their
headquarters, by women and children employed at wages below the minimum.
Productivity of handsorting is very low (50-60 kg a day per person) and
further, quality control is virtually impossible. UCCAO has 10 sorting
machines, the capacity of which (7,000 ton a year) is judged inadequate for
proper quality control. A further 10 machines, increasing capacity to
14,000 tons, would be added under the proposed project. Machine sorting would
be adequate to handle about 50% of expected coffee production in PY 9. Three
of a new type of machine capable of detecting the presence of stinking beans
(para 3.13) would also be purchased under the project for trial.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation (Annex 2)
3.18      To improve project supervision and implementation, a Project Moni-
toring Unit (PMU) would be established under the Director of Production Ser-
vices of UCCAO. PMU's work program would be established in collaboration



- 12 -
with the Planning Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture, which would establish
an Evaluation Unit under the proposed project, to be headed by a specialist
with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA. Monitoring would be
based on a limited number of performance indicators, established on the basis
of an initial inventory of farmer resources and productivity. In addition,
in PY 3 and and PY 4, PMU would undertake two or three studies in greater
detail. The subjects to be studied would be related to problems of project
implementation, and chosen jointly by project management, DEP, and the Bank.
In addition to directing the work of UCCAO's PMU, the Evaluation Unit in DEP
would, upon full disbursement of the IDA Credit, prepare an audit of project
performance. Details of the audit and of the schedule of project implementa-
tion would be part of the standard letter on reporting requirements which
would be sent to Government, UCCAO, and PMU after Board approval. Further,
working under DEP, consultants would study the feasibility and design of
follow-up projects based on the experience of the proposed project. About
34 man-months of consultant services would be required for this purpose in
PY 3 and PY 4.
D. Organization and Management (Annex 2)
3.19      UCCAO.  Government would entrust overall project management to
UCCAO whose responsibilities would be detailed in a project agreement with
IDA. UCCAO's Director General, who would be the overall Project Manager,
would delegate day-to-day management of agricultural field services to a
Director of Production Services. Credit operations would be the responsi-
bility of the Financial Director of UCCAO. Implementation of other project
components--bottomlands development, construction of village water supply
system and applied agronomic research--would be by existing Government agen-
cies specialized in the respective sectors (para 3.26). Assurances have been
obtained that arrangements for the execution of such sub-components would be
satisfactory to IDA. Financial control of contracted work and overall pro-
curement would be the responsibility of UCCAO's Executive Controller. As
at present, normal commercial activities and the sorting and grading factory
would be supervised by the Director of Commercial Services. UCCAO's proposed
organization is at Annex 2 (Chart 18088).
3.20      Field Services.  UCCAO's Directorate of Production Services would
be headed by an experienced project manager who would have overall responsi-
bility for four divisions in charge of: extension, pest control, seed pro-
duction, and training. Extension would be organized along the lines of the
Training and Visits System. The main principles of this system would need
to be adapted to local conditions, and include: (a) a unified service with
a single chain of command from the Director of Production Services through
the head of the Extension Division and sector chiefs down to the lowest level
extension agent; (b) a systematic time-bound program of Training and Visits
to farmers coordinated with fortnightly one-day training sessions for exten-
sion staff which would concentrate on the three or four important recommen-
dations for the succeeding two weeks of the crop season; (c) a concentration



- 13 -
of extension effort on selected contact farmers with a high reputation in
their local community and (d) close links between the extension service and
the units responsible for input supply and credit. In the field, extension
services would be divided into five geographical sectors, each based at a
cooperative service center, and staffed with a sector chief, agricultural
assistants, and extension agents. A special unit within the extension ser-
vice, headed by an experienced agronomist and based at selected CSC, would
be responsible for demonstrations and field trials (para 3.09); and a small
(three-man) reforestation brigade would be created and given responsibility
for the establishment and maintenance of forest areas.
3.21      Bottomlands Cultivation.  A Bottomlands Cultivation Unit (BCU) would
be created as part of UCCAO's extension division. BCU would be based at CSC
close to developed bottom-lands, and be responsible for ensuring that farmers
receive the advice, inputs and credit needed for bottomlands development.
BCU would also ensure that farmers adhere to their obligations under a farm
contract agreement, cahier des charges. Under this agreement, each farmer
would be obliged to pay an annual participation fee, to follow extension
advice, to deliver part of his paddy production to BCU for milling, and to
contribute annually cash or equivalent labor for maintenance of drainage and
flood control works. The participation fee would be part of a system designed
to ensure that direct beneficiaries pay for the investment and maintenance
cost of bottomlands development (para 4.09).
3.22      Pest Control Unit (PCU).  A Pest Control Unit would be created as a
division of UCCAO's Department of Production Services and would be responsible
for organizing spraying against the antestia pest and supervising farmers who
would spray their coffee trees against anthracnose. The head of PCU, based
at UCCAO headquarters, would supervise two Bases Phytosanitaire, each under
a technical officer, at Dschang and Foumbot. The annual work program of PCU
would be established in close collaboration with the extension sector chiefs
and would be based on the results of pest scouting activities. Materials
and supplies needed by PCU for antestia control would be financed under the
project.
3.23      Seed Production Unit (SPU).  A third division, the Seed Production
Unit, would be headed by an experienced seed agronomist assisted by a seed
processing technician. SPU would be responsible for operating seed farms to
be established under the project. The seed required for each cropping season
would be established in collaboration with the extension service, based on
requests for seed submitted by each cooperative; seed supplies would be
delivered directly to the cooperatives for sale to farmers (Annex 4, para
18). To assess SPU's capacity to become an autonomous commercial enterprise,
UCCAO has agreed to review SPU's operations in PY 4 and submit its findings
to Government and IDA.
3.24      Training.  The fourth division of the Directorate of Production
Services would be the Training Center, headed by a Senior Training Officer
(STO). In PYI, the STO would acquaint himself with the ecology of the proj-
ect area by taking part in the initial farm resources and productivity sur-
vey to be conducted by PHIU (para 3.18). He would also establish contact



- 14 -
with local research stations and agricultural training institutions. On the
basis of his experience and the knowledge gained during this period, he would
establish a curriculum keeping in mind the requirements of the Training and
Visit System and the educational levels of potential extension agents. The
training program for each year would be submitted to the head of Production
Services Department well in advance to enable arrangements to be made for
recruitment of teaching staff and students. The training center would be
responsible for producing audiovisual materials and operating a cinema van.
3.25      Input Distribution and Credit (Cooperative Service Centers - CSC).
CSC would be the base of operations for the field services, for input distri-
bution and credit administration and for crop marketing. Credit (in kind)
would be procured by UCCAO and delivered to cooperatives. The head of CSC
(Chef du Centre) would be responsible for managing credit distribution to
individual farmers and related book-keeping. Credit applications would be
approved by cooperative section committees. Individual accounts would be kept
by the Chef du Centre and be consolidated for all sections at cooperative
headquarters. Credit needs would be established each year by section and by
cooperative and consolidated by UCCAO, and would form the basis of purchases.
Repayment of credit would be through deductions from the sales price payable
to farmers during the coffee marketing season. Proposed terms and conditions
of credit are discussed in para 4.08.
3.26      Village Water Supply and Bottomland Development.  The construction
of village water supply points would be the responsibility of a Village Water
Supply Unit, created in the Provincial Department of Rural Works (Genie Rural).
This unit, which would devote its full time to project activities, would be
headed by an experienced engineer, who would draw up an annual work program/
budget. After approval by project management, this work program/budget would
be used by project management to exercise financial control over this subcom-
ponent. Operating costs would need to be prefinanced by UCCAO and, during
negotiations an assurance was given by Government that it would provide the
required funds to UCCAO in the form of a project advance account. A Bottom-
lands Development Unit (BDU) would similarly be created in Genie Rural for
the implementation of civil works for this project component. Financial
arrangements would be the same as for the Village Water Supply Unit. For
both components, the required equipment would be purchased by UCCAO and be
used exclusively for project-related activities. UCCAO would sign a contract
with the Department of Rural Works of the Ministry of Agriculture for the
execution of these two components. The contract would make provision, inter
alia, for detailed specification of the nature of the work to be done and
creation of an executing unit whose operating cost would be budgeted and
accounted for separately. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the contract would be acceptable to IDA.
3.27      Key staff required by UCCAO's Production Services Department would
be: (a) Director of Production Services, (b) Chief of Extension Division,
(c) Chief of Seed Production Division, (d) Chief of Training Division, (e)
Head of Field Trials and Demonstration Unit and (f) a Financial Controller.
It is unlikely that qualified candidates could be found locally and these



- 15 -
posts would therefore be filled through international recruitment. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that these positions would be filled
by persons with qualification, experience and terms of reference acceptable
to IDA. Further, within six months after credit signature, UCCAO would submit
a training program for approval by IDA which would set out steps to be taken
for the training of local management staff to replace expatriates.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      Total project costs are detailed at Annex 10 and summarized in the
table below (next page).
4.02      Cost estimates are based on prices prevailing at end-1977 and, in
accordance with Government's current practice (which was confirmed during
negotiations) of waiving such duties, exclude duties on items imported for
project purposes. Total project costs are expected to be CFAF 6,127 million
(US$25.0 million) including excise and other internal taxes amounting to CFAF
535 million (US$2.2 million). Costs also include physical contingencies, at
10% of base cost, and expected price increases amounting to CFAF 849 million
(US$3.5 million) or 16% of base cost plus physical contingencies. Price con-
tingencies have been based on the expected rate of inflation in Cameroon,
estimated at 8% per annum during the project investment period. This figure
is also in accordance with Bank estimates of international inflation (7.0-
8.0%) during the same period. Foreign expenditures would amount to CFAF
3,183 million (US$13.0 million) or about 52% of total project cost.



- 16 -
Summary of Project Cost
CFAF Million             US$ Million           of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Base
Cost
1. UCCAO
Ta)  Headquarters Staff and Project            192      148     340     o.8      o.6     1.4    7
(b) Commercial Services
(i) Industrial Investments                 52      99     151      0.2     0.4      o.6    3
(ii) Cooperative Service Centers           571     422      993     2.4     1.7      4.1   21
(c) Production Services
(i) Extension
- General                             100     145      245     o.4     o.6      1.0    5
- Field Trials                        234     142      376     0.9     o.6      1.5    8
- Bottomlands Cultivation              53      22       75     0.2     0.1      0.3    2
(ii) Seed Production                       386     516      902     1.6     2.1      3.7   19
(iii) Pest Control                           41      93      134     0.2     0.3      0.5    3
(iv) Training                              125     123      248     0.5     0.5      1.0    5
2.  INCREMENTAL FARM INPUTS                        270      523     793     1.1      2.1     3.2   16
3.  VILLAGE WATER SUPPLY                           135      117     252     0.5      0.5     1.0    5
4.  BOTTOMLANDS DEVELOPMENT                         99       43     142     o.4      0.2     o.6    3
5.  EVALUATION AND PREPARATION OF
FEASIBILITY STUDY                               52       95     147     0.2      o.4     o.6    3
6.  TOTAL BASE COST                              2,310   2,488   4,798      9.4    10.1    19.5  100
Physical Contingencies                       231      249     480     1.0      1.0     2.0   10
Price Contingencies                          403      446     849     1.6      1.9     3.5   18
7. TOTAL PROJECT COST                            2,944   3,183   6,127    12.0    13.0    25.0
Taxes                                        535              535     2.2              2.2
8. TOTAL NET OF TAXES                            2,409   3,183   5,592      9.8    13.0    22.8



- 17 -
B. Proposed Financing
4.03      The table below summarizes the proposed financing plan:
Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
IDA   Government  Farmers      UCCAO      Total
1.   Expatriate Salaries           2.1         -          -          -         2.1
2.   Operating Costs, Training
and Staff Salaries          3.6        0.6        -           -         4.2
3.   Civil Works                   3.4        0.4         -          -         3.8
4.   Vehicles and Equipment        2.0        0.2         -          -         2.2
5.   Project Evaluations and
Preparations                0.6        0.1        -           -         0.7
6.   Commercial Services            -          -          -          5.2       5.2
7.   Revolving Credit Fund          -         2.5         0.2        1.4       4.1
8.   Unallocated                    1.3       0.6         -          0.8       2.7
TOTAL                        13.0        4.4         0.2        7.4      25.0
Percent of Total Cost        52         17           1         30       100
Percent of Net-of-Tax Cost  57          10           1         32       100
4.04      It is proposed that an IDA Credit of US$13.0 million be made to
Government. The Credit would finance about 57% of project costs net of taxes
or 52% of total project costs, and would cover 100% of foreign expenditures.
The balance of total project costs--US$12.0 million--would be financed by
UCCAO (US$7.4 million or 30% of the total), by Government (US$4.4 million or
17% of total), and by participating farmers equivalent to 10% of the cost of
farm equipment purchased on credit (US$0.2 million or 1% of total project
costs).



- 18 -
4.05      The IDA Credit, supplemented by a part of Government's contribution
(CFAF 465 million, US$1.9 million) would finance the cost of upgrading ser-
vices which are provided at present by Government's line agencies. Of the
total sum (US$14.9 million equivalent), about CFAF 190 million (US$0.8 mil-
lion) would go to the Planning Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture and would
cover the cost of establishment and initial operations of a Project Evaluation
Unit as well as the cost of consultants' studies required for the preparation
of further development projects in the Western Highlands. The balance, CFAF
3,460 million, about US$14.1 million, would be passed on as a grant to UCCAO
which would assume responsibility for rural services under the project. The
funds would be deployed as follows:
(a) CFAF 500 million (US$2.0 million) would be used by
UCCAO to finance project activities which would be
implemented by Genie Rural. About CFAF 320 million
(US$1.3 million) would cover the equipment and oper-
ating costs of constructing a village water supply
system; and CFAF 180 million (US$0.7 million) would
finance the equipment and operating costs of bottom-
lands development; and
(b) CFAF 2,960 million (US$12.1 million) would finance
equipment and incremental staff and operating costs
of a Production Services Department and of additional
headquarters staff required for project implementation
including monitoring of project progress:
(i)  CFAF 1,150 million (US$4.7 million) would cover
the equipment, construction and operating costs
of a Seed Production Center;
(ii) CFAF 317 million (US$1.3 million) would cover
the construction, equipment and initial oper-
ating costs of a Training Center;
(iii) CFAF 890 million (US$3.6 million) would cover
the construction, equipment and incremental
operating costs of a newly-created Extension
Service within UCCAO, including a Field Trials
and Demonstration Unit and a Bottomlands Culti-
vation Unit;
(iv) CFAF 170 million (US$0.7 million) would cover
vehicles, equipment, material and incremental
operating costs of a strengthened Pest Control
Unit; and
(v)  CFAF 433 million (US$1.8 million) would cover the
incremental personnel costs of headquarters staff
required for project implementation and monitoring.



- 19 -
4.06      In addition to providing CFAF 465 million (US$1.9 million) for the
upgrading of services to farmers (para 4.05), Government would also lend a
total of CFAF 608 million (US$2.5 million) through FONADER to a Revolving
Credit Fund to be established and operated by UCCAO (para 4.08). This sum rep-
resents the proportion (65%) of the total credit fund which would be needed to
finance incremental seasonal inputs needed for project activities. FONADER's
present interest charge is 9% per annum to ultimate borrowers; this rate has
been used in the financial analysis of credit operations (para 5.12). During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that all purchases on credit of agri-
cultural inputs and equipment under the project would bear interest equiva-
lent to 9% per annum.
4.07      The contribution of participating farmers, both directly and through
their cooperative union, UCCAO, would be about 30% of total project costs.
UCCAO's contribution to project financing, CFAF 1,815 million or US$7.4 mil-
lion, would come from free reserves (i.e. beyond the limit required by law)
which are expected to be about CFAF 6,900 million (US$28.2 million) by the
beginning of PYI. UCCAO financing would cover:
(a) expansion of coffee sorting capacity and upgrading of
workshop facilities: CFAF 195 million or US$0.8 million;
(b) construction and equipment cost of a cooperative service
center network and related incremental staff and other
operating costs: CFAF 1,270 million or US$5.2 million; and
(c) the balance of the amount needed for the establishment of a
Revolving Credit Fund: CFAF 350 million or US$1.4 million.
4.08      UCCAO would establish a Revolving Credit Fund (RCF) with its own
and Government resources (paras 4.06 and 4.07). RCF would lend to coopera-
tive members through their departmental cooperatives at 9% per annum. Of
this charge, 2% would go towards a mandatory national rural credit guarantee
fund. In addition, for sales on credit of seasonal inputs financed with
funds borrowed from FONADER, RCF would repay a 4% interest charge to FONADER.
All other earnings would be retained in RCF. The effective spread--9% in-
terest on all loans less 6% on seasonal credit (65% of total) and 2% on
medium term credit (35% of total) -- would be about 4.4% which would be
adequate for meeting the costs of credit administration and for increasing
the lending capacity of RCF over the long term. Government would also con-
tribute funds to finance credit needs of farmers for the purchase of fer-
tilizer at the present levels of use in the project area, estimated to cost
about CFAF 593 million (US$2.4 million) by the beginning of PY 1. Govern-
ment and UCCAO have undertaken to provide the funds required for the estab-
lishment of the Revolving Credit Fund (including credit to maintain fertil-
izer use at existing levels) under the terms and conditions outlined in para
4.06 and to ensure that onlending terms and conditions would be as above.



- 20 -
C. Cost Recovery
4.09      Beneficiaries of the bottomland development component of the proj-
ect can be identified and a system would be introduced to enable them to con-
tribute directly to investment and maintenance costs with respect to this
component. Based on estimates of investment (excluding management overhead
and equipment depreciation), beneficiaries would be required to pay an annual
participation fee of CFAF 13,675 (US$56) per hectare (equivalent to CFAF 4,100,
US$17 per farm family) for 10 years. This would ensure recovery of full devel-
opment costs (including interest at the nominal rate of 5% per annum) in 10
years. In addition, for maintenance of developed bottomlands, participants
may choose either to contribute five working days of labor or to pay CFAF
1,584 (US$6.50) per hectare per year as a maintenance levy. Participation
fees and maintenance levies would be accounted for separately by project
management and would be used to meet the cost of investment in small farm
machinery (e.g. threshers) for subsequent hire to bottomland farmers and
materials and supplies needed for maintenance work. Direct recovery of
costs for the village water supply component would be impractical at this
time (para 3.13). During negotiations, Government and UCCAO undertook to
institute a cost recovery scheme for developed bottomlands along the lines
described above.
D. Procurement
4.10      With the exception of contracts under US$100,000 procurement of
goods and services financed by the IDA credit would be under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures; IDA financing of such items is expected
to amount to US$3.2 million. Items under US$100,000 but above US$20,000 would
be procured on the basis of locally-advertised competitive bidding procedures
which would be acceptable to IDA. For contracts of less than US$20,000,
direct procurement on the basis of several quotations would be allowed up to
a sum not exceeding US$1.0 million. Civil works in connection with village
water supply and bottomlands development, for which IDA financing of US$1.6
million is proposed, would be done on force account. This is because such
works have a low unit cost, are widely dispersed geographically and are phased
over a period of several years with the result that they do not usually attract
foreign bidders. There are at present no private contractors in Cameroon who
have experience in this type of work. About US$5.1 million of incremental
staff and related operating costs would also be financed by IDA.
E. Disbursement
4.11      The IDA credit would cover:
(A) 100% of expatriate staff salaries and related expenses
(US$2.1 million);



- 21 -
(B) 85% of the operating costs, including training fellow-
ships and salaries of newly recruited local staff of
UCCAO's Directorate of Production Services and of in-
cremental headquarters staff (US$3.6 million);
(C) 90% of the cost of civil works and construction of:
staff housing for UCCAO's Directorate of Production
Services; the Training Center; the Seed Production
Center; a village water supply system; and bottomlands
development (US$3.4 million);
(D) 90% (or 100% of c.i.f. cost if imported) of the cost
of vehicles and equipment of the Directorate of Pro-
duction Services including vehicles and equipment
required of the construction of a village water supply
system and bottomlands works (US$2.0 million); and
(E) 90% of the operating costs of a Project Evaluation
Unit to be established in D.E.P., including consul-
tants' services for the preparation of a feasibility
study (US$0.6 million).
US$1.3 million would be unallocated.
4.12      Disbursements under Categories A, B and E above would be on the
basis of a certified statement of expenditures. Documents in support of
such statements would be retained by the Borrower and be available for in-
spection in the course of project supervision. All other disbursements
would be fully documented. A schedule of estimated disbursements is at
Annex 11.
F. Accounts and Audit
4.13      Accounting systems and procedures used by UCCAO and its constituent
cooperatives are adequate in recording the limited number of operations that
they now engage in. With the expansion in cooperative activities proposed
under the project, the existing system would need to be upgraded and stream-
lined. An Executive Controller would be financed under the project and be
recruited internationally since a suitable candidate is not likely to be found
locally. The incumbent would be in post for four years, and be responsible
for: (a) reviewing and improving the present system of accounting for arabica
coffee production, collection, processing and marketing costs; (b) establish-
ing a separate system of accounting to record project-related expenditures;
(c) supervising a procurement officer, who would be responsible for ensuring
that goods and services required for the proposed project are obtained in
keeping with agreed procedures; and (e) training local staff both at the
medium and high levels. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that
an appropriate person having qualifications, experience and scope of respon-
sibilities acceptable to IDA would be appointed to this position.



- 22 -
4.14      Auditing by COOPMUT staff is inadequate (para 2.07).  The total
turnover of UCCAO has risen rapidly in recent years and would be further
increased by project expenditures. Consequently, the following arrange-
ments, agreed upon during negotiations, would be followed by UCCAO:
(i) UCCAO would keep adequate and separate accounts for
project-financed expenditures;
(ii) UCCAO would appoint auditors with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA;
(iii) copies of UCCAO's accounts and the auditors' reports
thereon would be submitted to IDA within six months
of the end of UCCAO's financial year; and
(iv) the reports of the auditors would be of such scope
and in such detail as the Association may reasonably
request, and would, in particular, contain a separate
opinion on the project accounts referred to in para
4.13.
V. YIELDS AND OUTPUT; MARKETS AND PRICES; AND FINANCIAL
IMPACT ON FARMERS, COOPERATIVE AND GOVERNMENT
A. Yields and Output
5.01      The cultivation methods and inputs recommended under the proposed
project are well tried and are, to some extent, currently practised in the
project area. Given this base and the past record of the local population in
successfully adopting technological innovation, estimated yield increases are
expected to be achieved and could be exceeded in some cases. Overall, yield
increases would average about 40% for all crops and soil types. Increases in
production would be roughly similar, as only a modest extension of cultivated
area is expected. The yield increase expected for coffee (about 30%) would
reverse the trend of declining coffee production in the area (para 3.01).
Yield and production improvements on the four main soil types in the project
area are detailed at Annex 3 and summarized in the table below:



- 23 -
Incremental Yields and Production
% Yield Increase/b    Incremental          % Increase
Soil Type /a:      A    B    C    D       Production /c       in Production /b
(t)
Crop
Maize              56   56   65   40         54,210                 56
Beans              50   50   40   33          2,640                48
Groundnuts         40   40   33   20          2,710                34
Macabo/Taro        33   33   27   43         73,620                 34
Yams/Cassava       43   43   37   75         27,230                42
Potatoes           40   40   28   50          5,940                39
Banana/Plantain   43   43   37   50          16,960                43
Vegetables         40   40   15   25          2,120                35
Arabica Coffee    33   33   30   37           6,540                35
Average            42   42   35   42                               40
/a   A - Red Ferralitic; B - Black Deposition; C - Brown Soils; D - Reworked
Ferralitic.
/b   Percent increase over "without - project" in PY 9.
/c   Over the "without-project" case in PY 9.
5.02      By PY 9, at full development, incremental project production is
expected to amount to over 192,000 tons per year (about 40% more than without
the project) mostly of foodcrops. The project addresses itself to the farming
system as a whole. Accordingly, project inputs will serve to improve yields
and output for different crops, the composition of which may change as relative
prices change. However, the overall value of incremental output should not be
affected. A subsidiary benefit of project actions is expected to be a reversal
of the decline in arabica coffee production which is the major cash crop of
the region; by PY 9, coffee production would be some 3,000 tons above the
previous peak production level attained in 1973 (para 3.01). Incremental
coffee production would be about 7% above Cameroon's present exports and less
than 1% of world trade in coffee.
B. Markets and Prices
5.03      Coffee.  Prospects for coffee import demand in the major consuming
countries are expected to be good between 1980 and 1985. During this period,
demand is expected to grow at a rate of about 2.6% per annum in the early
period declining to about 1.8% per annum during the second half of the 1980s.
Prices, however, would not grow at the same rate given the expected increase



- 24 -
in production induced by the unusually high prices experienced recently in
world markets. On the basis of the World Bank's commodity export price pro-
jections and estimates of the quality discount applied to coffee produced by
UCCAO cooperatives, the f.o.b. price for Cameroon arabica coffee in constant
1977 terms is expected to decline from CFAF 700/kg (US$1.30/lb) in PYI to
about CFAF 390/kg (US$0.72/lb) by PYIO.
5.04      The bonus and the guaranteed minimum price for 1977 give an effec-
tive producer price of CFAF 286/kg (US$0.53/lb) of green coffee. To maintain
incentives to arabica coffee farmers, Government should set producer prices in
nominal terms at a level consistent with maintaining the 1977 value in real
terms, i.e., producer prices in nominal terms should rise at the same rate as
the rural price index, at about 5% per annum. Such prices would provide ade-
quate incentives to farmers. Indicative farm budgets have been based on such
prices. During negotiations, Government gave undertakings that it would main-
tain price incentives to arabica coffee farmers.
5.05      Foodcrops.  The project area is a net exporter of food to other
parts of the Cameroon. About 33% of food production is estimated to be
marketed and incremental project production of foodcrops would increase
this proportion to about 50%. Demand, especially in the urban areas, has
grown briskly in recent years--the food price index in Yaounde, as an indica-
tion, increased at an average rate of about 13% per year between 1971 and
1976. In addition, export markets have been opened up in neighboring Nigeria
and Gabon. Marketing is mostly in the hands of small private traders who lack
modern storage facilities but otherwise constitute an efficient marketing
system.
5.06      For the purposes of evaluating alternative farm budgets, foodcrop
prices have been based on 1977 levels and allow for trading and transport
margins and storage losses (Annex 9); the losses in storage are very high
at present (35% for grains and tubers and 50% for fresh fruit and vegetables).
Except for maize, food crop prices are expected to remain level in real terms
over the next few years, as production begins to increase at roughly the same
rate as demand (about 3% per year). Maize prices are expected to decline by
about 15% per year after PY4 as a result of much higher production caused by
present high prices and use of higher yielding varieties and fertilizer both
under the proposed project and on a mechanized scheme planned to go into
production about PY5.
5.07      For-purposes of economic valuation, border prices have been esti-
mated for foodcrops which enter significantly into world trade, viz. maize
and rice. Calculations based on Bank projections indicate that the present
market prices are significantly higher than equivalent prices in international
trade (Annex 9, Tables 13 and 14) but are not expected to remain at those
levels. For other crops, economic values have been based on observed market
prices.



- 25 -
C. Financial Impact of Project
5.08      Farmers' Benefits.  Indicative farm budgets have been constructed
for the four main soil types and for bottomlands (Annex 3, Tables 7 to 10).
Results, which are summarized below, show increased employment (about 25%) and
much improved cash incomes (about 53% to CFAF 97,000, US$395, per farm family
in the poorer soils and CFAF 172,000, US$702 per family on the better soils)
compared to what could be expected without the project:
Farmers' Results
Percent Increase with Project
Soil Type a/                                     %
A     B     C      D
Indicator (per unit area)
Labor input                                           26    25    25    27
Cash income                                           52    53    55    55
Returns per ha                                        20      3    17     4
/a   A -  Red Ferralitic; B - Black Deposition; C - Brown Soils; D -
Reworked Ferralitic.
5.09      Farm budgets have been based on market prices (paras 5.04 and 5.06)
and assume debt service payments based on credit for a depulper, crib, and
sprayer, not all of which would be needed by each farmer. Bottomland farmers
are also charged with CFAF 15,300 ha (US$62.0) per year as payment toward
development and maintenance cost of bottomlands (para 4.09). The results
are satisfactory and would provide enough incentive for farmers to partici-
pate in the project.
5.10      Cooperative Cash Flows (Annex 11, Tables 3 and 4).  Apart from the
Credit Fund, UCCAO's contribution to project financing would amount to CFAF
1.5 billion (US$6.0 million) in PY I to PY 4. In addition, its planned in-
vestments during PY 5-10 in management housing, headquarters office space
and expanded warehouses, and equipment and vehicle replacement, as well as
normal increases in working capital, would amount to some CFAF 7.2 billion
(US$29.4 million). To finance these expenditures UCCAO would draw on its
discretionary reserves (about CFAF 6.9 billion or US$28.2 million at the
beginning of PY 1) and on the accumulation of further reserves out of net
operating income (after deduction of legal reserves and bonuses). A cash
flow analysis based on these assumptions is at Annex 11, Tables 3 and 4
and shows that in spite of operating cash deficits in PY 9 and 10 of about
CFAF 2.1 billion (US$8.5 million) required for price stabilization purposes,



- 26 -
the combination of large accumulated reserves at the beginning of PY 1 and
positive operating results in PY 1 to PY 8 (CFAF 7.2 billion, US$29.3 mil-
lion) would enable UCCAO to have free reserves of some CFAF 4.7 billion
(US$19.1 million) at the end of PY 10.
5.11      Financial Impact on Government (Annex 11, Table 5).  In addition
to the IDA credit, Government would contribute a further CFAF 465 million
(US$1.9 million) to finance rural services in the project area during PY1
to PY4. From PY 5 to PY 10, incremental operating expenditures of field
services and renewal of their equipment and machinery would require further
outlays totalling CFAF 5.3 billion (US$21.6 million). Export taxes on incre-
mental project production of coffee and the levy on the same exports by the
Stabilization Fund, plus the proceeds of the IDA credit would exceed project
and post-investment period expenditures and the debt service on the credit
by some CFAF 750 million (US$3.1 million) by the end of PY 10.
5.12      Financial Impact of Credit Operations.  UCCAO would use Government
finance (channelled through FONADER) to supplement its own reserves in order
to create a Revolving Credit Fund. The ratio of Government financing to
UCCAO's own funds in constituting the Revolving Credit Fund would be about
65:35. The Fund would lend to individual cooperative members at an interest
rate equivalent to 9% per annum, of which FONADER would receive about 4%.
In addition, a 2% charge is required by law to finance a National Guarantee
Fund. The Revolving Fund would thus earn the spread between the interest
charge of 9% and FONADER's fee plus the Guarantee Fund levy (6% altogether).
On funds provided from UCCAO resources, the Fund would keep the spread between
the 9% interest charge and the Guaranteed Fund levy of 2%. Such earnings would
be available to finance further credit to smallholders.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The project's direct economic benefits would be an increase in the
production of foodcrops, vegetables and arabica coffee. At full development,
the net economic value in constant 1977 prices of incremental project produc-
tion is estimated at CFAF 2.2 billion (US$9.0 million) annually. The net
contribution of the project to foreign exchange earnings, through export
expansion (coffee) and import substitution (rice and maize), would be about
CFAF 730 million (US$3.0 million) per year at full development.
6.02      The project's economic rate of return (ERR) would be 20% over 15
years (Annex 12). This estimate includes the economic costs of and benefits
from the 245 km of roads to be improved by the Ministry of Equipment and
Housing in West Province, under the Feeder Roads Project (para 3.05) recently
negotiated. This high value is typical of a project which aims at consolida-
ting an ongoing and relatively successful pattern of production, by diversify-
ing crops, ensuring essential inputs and reinforcing existing institutions
and rural services. The calculation (Annex 12) is based on the following
assumptions: (i) a project life of 15 years; (ii) costs and benefits net
of transfer payments--subsidies and identifiable taxes -- and in constant



- 27 -
December 1977 terms; (iii) fertilizer and output values for maize, groundnuts,
rice and coffee based on the Bank Group's world market price forecasts, and
current producer prices for other foodcrops; (iv) an exchange rate of CFAF 245
= US$1.00; and (v) family labor costed at the prevailing agricultural wage
rate of CFAF 350 per day. A separate rate of return has been calculated at
35% for the bottomland development component (3% of project cost; Annex 7,
Table 9). No separate ERR has been estimated for the village water supply
component (5% of project cost); the major benefits therefrom would be an
improvement in the quality of life for about 18,000 rural families and in-
creased water availability for coffee treatment. The sensitivity of the
project's ERR has been tested against alternative changes in costs and ben-
efits. For example, a simultaneous increase in costs by 20% and decrease
in benefits also by 20% would give a rate of return of about 11%; overall,
results indicate that the project would be economically justified under
such changes as may be reasonably expected.
6.03      Further to the quantifiable benefits derived from the increased
production, the project is expected to make a substantial contribution by
strengthening cooperatives to organize and manage the timely distribution of
farm inputs and credit. It would preserve soil fertility and reduce the
threat of soil erosion. Extension services would be considerably improved
through the provisions for training of local staff.
6.04      Risks.  The major risk that project objectives would not be achieved
would derive from a failure to establish an efficient system for the delivery
of inputs and advice to farmers. The project's technical assistance and train-
ing components, supplemented by supervision missions by IDA staff, would pro-
vide a reasonable measure of protection against this eventuality. The world
price of coffee, which is the only export crop in the farming system, is pre-
dicted to fall to about 55% of its (constant) 1977 price level by 1985 (para
5.03), and this has been used in the economic analyses. However, if prices
were to fall by a further 20% and, and at the same time, production increases
were delayed by a whole year, the economic rate of return would still be 15%
(Annex 12, page 2). In general, the reaction of farmers in the area to
development activities in the past suggests that the normal risks associated
with integrated rural development schemes of this kind would be minimized.
VII. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained on the following prin-
cipal points:
(i) UCCAO would review the operations of SPU to determine the
feasibility of converting it into an autonomous commercial
enterprise, and submit its findings thereon to Government
and IDA (para 3.23);



- 28 -
(ii)  UCCAO would enter into satisfactory agreements with the
Department of Rural Works of the Ministry of Agriculture
for the implementation of the Village Water Supply, Bottom-
land Development, and Monitoring and Evaluation components
of the project and with ONAREST for contract research to be
done by IRAF (para 3.26);
(iii) Government would provide UCCAO with funds in the form of
a project advance account sufficient to pre-finance the
operating costs of project components which would be
contracted to other Government agencies (para 3.26);
(iv) UCCAO would appoint persons with experience, qualifications
and terms of reference satifactory to IDA to the positions
of Director of Production Services, Chief of Extension
Division, Head of Field Trials and Demonstration Unit,
Head of Evaluation Unit in DEP, Chief of Seed Production
Division, Chief of Training Division (para 3.27), and
Executive Controller (para 4.13);
(v) Government and UCCAO would provide the funds required for
constituting a Revolving Credit Fund to be operated by
UCCAO under the terms and conditions outlined in paras
4.06 and 4.08;
(vi) UCCAO would operate the Revolving Credit Fund with on-
lending terms and conditions as outlined in para. 4.08;
and
(vii) Government would institute a system, along the lines
proposed herein, for recovering investment and mainte-
nance costs of developed bottomland areas from direct
beneficiaries (para 4.09).
7.02      It would be a condition of effectiveness that the Head of Pro-
duction Services and the Head of the Extension Division of UCCAO have been
appointed.
7.03      With these assurances and conditions, the project is suitable for
an IDA credit of US$13.0 million.



ANNEX 1
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Project Area
1.        Location.  The project area would be located in the Western Province
which, together with the North-Western Province, forms the part of Cameroon
called Western Highlands. The project area would coincide with the geographi-
cal sphere of activities of UCCAO and would include a major part of the de-
partments of Mifi, Menoua and Bamboutos, the northern-most part of Nde and
Haut Nkam, and the western part of Bamoun. Broadly, the geographical de-
limitation is f10' - 5040' north and 10  - 10  55' east.  The area covers
about 6,000 km , of which about 100,000 ha is cultivated.
2.        Administration.  The province is headed by a governor, seated in
Bafoussam, the provincial headquarters. The governor is assisted by pre-
fects in the six departments of the province (para 1). The departments are
further divided into arondissements and chiefdoms. Table 1 gives an outline
of the departments and arondissements, of the surface area, project area,
population and population density.
3.        The main ministries are represented at provincial level by pro-
vincial delegations and the same system is repeated at departmental level.
4.        Population.  The Western Province comprises about 17% of Cameroon's
population, but covers only 3% of the country's territory. Total population
of the project area is estimated (in 1976) at 750,000, of which about 550,000
are rural and some 670,000 agricultural. The agricultural population is lar-
ger than the rural, because part of the urban population is primarily en-
gaged in agriculture. Annual growth rate is estimated at 2.J%. Population
density varies between 50/km in the Bamoun and up to 300/km and over in
some p rts of the Mifi and Bamboutos. The average population density is
125/km . The distribution of the population in Western Province and over
the project area is shown on Map No. 13073.
5.        Contrary to the densely populated central and southern part of the
proje5t area, the arondissement of Galim has a population density below
50/km . This area has also very fertile, brown soils and a high agricul-
tural potential. A spontaneous immigration of some 2,000 people has taken
place since 1971 into this area. With the improvement in feeder roads
and development proposed under this project, immigration into the Galim
area is expected to increase. The potential for immigration is estimated
to be as high as 50,000 people.
6.        There are about 100,000 farm families in the project area, of
which some 78,000 are members of UCCAO. Over the years, the inhabitants of
the project area have demonstrated their ability to adopt technological
innovation, as evidenced by the rapid acceptance of coffee cultivation and
the development of cooperatives (Annex 8).



ANNEX I
Page 2
7.        Topography and Vegetation.  The project area is hilly at altitudes
between 1,200 and 1,800 m. Most of the crop cultivation takes place on
slopes, many exceeding 25%. The natural vegetation of rain forest has vir-
tually vanished and most usable land is now cultivated. Only the highest
peaks and eroded slopes bear pasture, whereas most of the bottomlands are
covered with raffia palms. It is estimated that over 90% of the cultivated
area is planted with Arabica coffee, intercropped with foodcrops. Trees
for firewood supply, mainly eucalyptus, and fruit trees, such as avocadoes,
mangoes, cola nuts, are part of the farming system and play an important
role in preservation of the microclimate, soil conservation and erosion con-
trol.
8.        Climate.  The climate in the project area can be classified as
transitional tropical.  It is characterized by a long rainy season, from
March to November, with the highest rainfall occurring generally in Septem-
ber, and by a well defined dry season from November to March. A map of
isohyets with interannual histograms for Dschang, Bafoussam, Bangangte,
Foumban, and some stations outside the project area, is given in Chart No.
17873. The main annual rainfall characteristics of six stations in the
project area are shown in the following table.
Mean annual        Years of               Coefficient
Station                                    observation (No.)       of variation
Foumban                    1,904                35                    0.119
Koundja                    2,063                22                    0.109
Foumbot                    1,733                38                    0.123
Bafoussam                  1,908                36                    0.101
Dschang                    1,937                33                    0.083
Mbouda                      1,700                8                    0.104
9.        The values of absolute and relative minimum and mean, and absolute
maximum, rainfall of five stations are evident from the table below.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
------------------ Rainfall (mm) -----------------
Observation                   Foumban    Koundja   Foumbot   Bafoussam   Dschang
Minimum observed               1,339       1,655    1,360         1,502      1,613
20 years              1,535       1,696    1,375         1,505       1,670
10 years              1,620       1,775    1,455         1,570       1,730
5 years              1,720       1,880    1,560         1,660       1,805
Mean                           1,904       2,063    1,733         1,809      1,937
5 years              2,110       2,245    1,915         1,965      2,072
10 years              2,350       2,350    2,020         2,050      2,150
20 years              2,310       2,430    2,095         2,115      2,205
Maximum observed               2,319       2,562    2,118        2,366       2,267
10.       The average annual temperature varies little throughout the year but
decreases with increasing altitude. The relative humidity follows the rain-
fall pattern, being lowest in January/February and highest in September.
Likewise the evapotranspiration is highest during the dry months and lowest
iuring months of highest rainfall (236 mm/month in December and 141 mm/month
in September).
11.       Detailed climatic data for Bafoussam, which is situated in the
centre of the project area, are given in Table 2.
12.       Hydrography.  The Western Province has four major rivers:
-  the Mape in the north, a tributary to the Mbam;
-  the Nkam in the south-west; it collects water from the SW
part of the Bamileke plateau and from the region of
Dschang;
-  the Nde in the south-east, a tributary of the Noun;
-  the Noun, originating in the Oku mountains (3,070 m) in
the North-western Provin.es, drains an essential part
of the Western Province. The flow of the Noun is regu-
lated by a dam constructed in Bamendjin, near Galim, in
the north of the project area. The Noun joins the Mbam,
one of the major tributaries of the Sanaga, which reaches
the ocean south of Douala.
13.       Pedology.  Soils are generally of high agricultural value, but
differ according to parent rock and volcanic influence. Four main groups
are predominant in the project area. Their principal characteristics are
given in the following table:



ANNEX 1
Page 4
---------------------Soil Type-------------------
Red           Black                      Reworked
Characteristic                ferralitic      deposition       Brown    ferralitic
Parent rock                   basalt          basalt, gneiss  basalt   granite
gneiss   syenite
Location in project area      center, south  center, east    north    south-east
west, east                                south-west
Estimated % of project area  62               17               8         13
pH                             6.0             6.5              6.5        5.5
Organic matter content (%)    5-6             10-12             7-9        1-5
Sum of bases (me %)            4              32               16        N.A.
Susceptibility to erosion      medium         medium           small    high
Agricultural value             high           very high        very      medium
high
14.       The high organic matter content of the soils is largely attributed
to a slower decomposition rate of residual organic materials under the cool
temperatures at higher altitudes. Despite the high agricultural value of the
soils, responses to readily available nutrients, supplied through chemical
fertilizers, have been established with most of the crops tested.
15.       On steeper slopes, under the influence of continuous cultivation,
an increasing number of fields have lost parts of their topsoil to erosion
and are degrading into the ferralitic reworked category. In extreme cases
almost all topsoil has been washed away and the barren subsoil surfaced on
extensive areas (Annex 5).
16.       In the bottomlands, which are estimated at some 2,000 ha in the
project area, dominate organic and moderately organic hydromorphic soils,
with high organic matter and clay contents.
17.       Map No. 13072 presents a survey of the main soil types in the
project area.
18.       Basic farm description.  Average farm size is about 1.3 ha.  Only
23% holdings are estimated to have more than 2 ha. With an average number of
7 persons per family, of which 3 are "active" (14 years and over and working
on the farm), the average area cultivated per active person is only 0.4 ha.



ANNEX I
Page 5
19.       Only about 3-4% of the project area bears crops in pure stands while
the rest is devoted to foodcrops in association with coffee or to mixtures of
foodcrops. The average farm is made up of an assortment of perennial crops
(coffee, plantains), trees (eucalyptus, lime, kola, mango, avocado) and food
crops grown in mixed stands (maize, cocoayams and potatoes grow in importance
within the crop mix, while on poorer soils groundnuts, yams and cassava domi-
nate and maize has a less important place (Annex 3).
20.       Due to the pressure on land, fallow has been sharply reduced and
account for probably not more than 5% of the area. There is an urgent need
for an intensive cultivation technique on slopes allowing permanent cultiva-
tion of annual crops without loss of soil fertility.
21.       According to the traditional division of labor on the farm, men are
responsible for all cash crops, coffee, plantains, raffia, and small live-
stock, while women cultivate foodcrops. In recent years, plantains have
gained in importance as a cash crop. In case of insufficient revenue from
cash crops women also contribute to the family's cash expenditure from food-
crop sales.
22.       Land tenure and land use pattern.  ks individual settlement domi-
nates in the Western Highlands, most farmers live in or near their land. Dur-
ing the cultivation season, people travel daily by bus from the plateau of
Bafoussam about 15-20 km to the fertile but less densely cultivated Noun
valley where they cultivate land but do not settle. Although customary culti-
vation rights are granted by the chief, farmers have developed a strong sense
of "ownership" for their land, on which they have planted trees and permanent
cultures such as coffee. The holder of a "concession" may divide it into
plots for each wife, and if land is available, he may also give plots to his
sons. The concession as such, however, remains undivided. In most cases
family members in possession of a cultivation right retain it even after
having migrated to urban areas. This explains the high degree of self-
sufficiency in foodcrops of the urban population. Sons for whom no lanc i-
available are forced to migrate. The system of land tenure is satisfactor)
and it is not expected that it will pose constraints to project implementa-
tion.



ANNEX I
Table 1
CAMEROON
Western Highlands Rural Development Project
Estimated Population, Area and Density by Department/Arrondissement in Project Area:
Estimated 1976    Area        Average
Total Population  (km2)        Density
('000)
I. Departement de la Mifi:
1. Arrondissement de Bafoussam                                   118.6          402           295
2. Arrondissement de Bamendjou                                    37.1          201           185
3. Arrondissement de Bandjoun                                     46.1          264           175
4. Arrondissement de Bangou  1/                                   40.4          303           133
242.3         1170          207
.I. Departement de Bamboutos:
5. Arrondissement de Mbouda                                       75.3          477           158
6. Arroridissement de Batcham                                     60.2          183           329
7. Arrondissement de Galim                                        19.8          513            39
155.2         1173          132
III. Departement de la Menoua:
8. Arron1issement de Dschang  2/                                 128.6          631           204
9. Arrondissement de Penka-Michel                                 52.9          276           192
181.5          907          200
IVi- Departement du Haut-Nkam
10. Arrondissement de Company  3/                                 16.7          158          106
11. Arrondissement de Bana  4/                                     5.2           73            71
21.9          231           95
V. Departement du Nde
12. Arrondissement de Bangangte  5/                               14.7          135          109
VI. Departement du Bamoun
13. Arrondissement de Foumbot  6/                                 48.2          903           53
14. Arrondissement de Foumban 77                                  87.6         1501           58
135.8         2404           56
Total population in project area:                                751.4         6020           125
I/ Includes District of Baham.
2/ Including Fokoue and Fotomena Chefferies of Fokoue District.
3/ Chefferies: Babouantcu, Bandwumgia, Fotouni only.
4/ Chefferie: Bana only.
S/ Chefferies: Bamena, Bangwa, Batchingou only.
6/ All except Groupement Rive Gauche du Noun and Massangam District (3 Groupements)
7/ All except Magba and Malantouen Districts; only half of estimat-.d population
(18,600)2of Njinka Groupement is included, howe er, at an assumed average density
of 25/km (372 km2 out of total area of 1054 km ).
Sources: 1976 Population Census (provisional results); and Regional Atlas ("-st ),
J. Champaud (OS+'M) 1071.



CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOFPENT PROJECT
l/
Climatic Data of Bafoussam
J      F       M         A         H         J        J         A         S        0         N        D      Annual
Rainfall - (mm)
Mean           2/               11      29       104       178      181       189      238       231       293       282      63       10       1.809
80% exceedence-                 10      27        96      164       167       169      219       213       270      259       57        9       1.660
0
Temperature -   C
Mean maximum                    27.0    27.4      27.3      26.2     25.1      24.2      23.3     23.3      23.4      23.6    24.9    25.8        -
Mean                            20.9    21.3      21.5      21.0     20.2      19.5      19.1     19.2      19.2      19.3    20.0    20.2        -
Mean minimum                    14.8    15.2      15.7      15.8     15.4      14.8      14.9     15.2      15.0      15.0    15.1    14.6        -
Relative Humidit' - %              62      61        64        73       78        81        82       81        85        80      71       64       73.5
Sunshine - hours                    8.3     8.6       6.9       6.6      6.8       5.8      4.1       3.9       4.4       5.9     7.8      8.6      6.5
Wind                                          Less than 2 m/sec  50% of the time.  Average wind fetch 130 km/day.
ETO (Penman) - am/month           211     199       205       183      176       153       140      140       141       164     180      236       2.128      |
Evaporation (CL.A)                173     205       179       158      147       125       100      199       117       152     150      162       1.766
1/    22 years observations
21    80% exceedence rainfall based on annual frequency.  Justified by small interannual irregularity.
3t/   Sunshine hours for Koundja (17 years) - no observations available for Bafoussam.






CAM EROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Isohyets and Interannual Histograms of Rainfall
0            X     ~~--          2500J                              _
/~~~~~~~
/   j2~~~00 /             -                                       t  
X ( 100 / / 300 S    2
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~
400                                                                                    1
300                                    300
200 
30        0                                                S
500 2    4   3000                      300              < 7500
200-
500    A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
00 -~~~~~~~~~~~
:  t      t                         /    j             \              [         X-FANGA 
20  500AGA
400~ ~~~20
300
200               300 BAMooD
100
300                                                                           2
100~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
DelimitaD on c' -::,tt area
World Bank -17863






ANNEX 2
CANEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ProJect Entities
A. General
1.        Public agencies servicing the rural sector often do not have enough
flexibility in making financial and managerial decisions because of their
geographical distance from the administrative capitals. Lack of well-defined
work programs and a proliferation of institutions further reduce the effective-
ness of such services. In recognition of this, Government has recently
indicated its preference for unified financial and administrative control of
rural development projects, usually built around an agency which has revenue
earning capacity and is thus experienced in financial control. The proposed
ZAPI Project and the Bank-Group financed Rural Development Fund and SEMRY
projects all incorporate these features. The execution of the project
described in this report would be organized along similar lines taking into
account the strengths and weaknesses of institutions in the project area as
described below.
B. Prolect Area Institutions
2.        UCCAO (Union des Cooperatives de Cafe Arabica de L'Ouest) is the
apex organization of the six arabica-growing cooperatives in the Western Pro-
vince. In each of the six departments there is a cooperative which is in
turn organized in Sections and Centers. The structure and functioning of
the Cooperatives and their relationship to UCCAO are governed by existing
legislation. Under the legislation, the Section, the primary unit of the
cooperative, is represented in the General Assembly according to the size
of its membership. The General Assembly elects a board which in turn dele-
gates its policy-making role to an executive committee of four members, in-
cluding the chairman. The policy-making Board of Directors of UCCAO is in
turn made up of a minimum of three board members from each cooperative with
additional representation decided on the basis of membership. The Board of
UCCAO is responsible for approving the annual budget for the ensuing fiscal
year and the accounts of the immediately past one. In addition, it reviews
proposed contractual agreements, including investment expenditures and
approves these. These and other policy decisions made by the Board are exe-
cuted by its General Manager (Directeur-General).
3.        UCCAO's day-to-day activities comprise principally: export
marketing; arranging crop purchase loans; central purchasing of farm in-
puts and equipment; management of coffee sorting; maintenance of coopera-
tives and relations with third parties including the Government. For export
marketing, UCCAO is exclusively represented by a broker with offices in



ANNEX 2
Page 2
New York and Le Havre. Apart from the quality problems associated with
"stinking beans", marketing operations have shown increasing sophistication
over the years and results are generally satisfactory. Further details are
at Annex 9. UCCAO has access to a credit line extended each year by a con-
sortium of banks to finance crop purchases. As presently constituted, the
arrangements call for the consortium to advance UCCAO a fixed sum at the
beginning of the season in a "clean account" (compte blanc) which is used
to pay the individual cooperatives for deliveries of their coffee to UCCAO
as well as for other marketing costs including shipment and commission.
Sales receipts and proceeds from pledged coffee inventories are used to
reduce the outstanding line of credit in the "clean account". The lead
bank in the consortium, which includes every commercial bank operating in
Cameroon, sets limits on both the line of credit and the amount that can
be loaned on coffee inventories. UCCAO is also obliged to liquidate its
line of credit and to redeem its coffee at stated dates.
4.        In addition to its role in crop purchase financing arrangements
and export marketing, UCCAO is the central purchaser on behalf of the
cooperatives of fertilizers, depulpers, sacking and other farm inputs and
materials needed by cooperative members. Fertilizers are the major item
purchased and in the 1976/77 season, 8,100 tons, costing about CFAF 312
million (US$1.3 million) including transportation to the cooperative cen-
ters, were distributed to farmers. The sales price to farmers reflects
not only a Government subsidy but also part of the distribution cost which
is directly absorbed by the cooperative. Further, UCCAO is sometimes ob-
liged to make arrangements on its own for the purchase of fertilizers,
effectively by-passing FONADER when the latter's allocation of fertilizer
is insufficient. Further details on distribution of farm inputs is at
Annex 6.
5.        The technical support given by UCCAO to its constituent coopera-
tives relates to electronic coffee sorting and machinery maintenance and
is discussed fully in Annex 9. The remaining major function performed
by UCCAO is representing the interests of members of the constituent coopera-
tives especially to Government. This is particularly important in the deli-
berations of the "Commission des prix" which fixes both the guaranteed minimum
price and the ristourne. Normally, UCCAO's proposals are accepted by the
commission. Government supervision of UCCAO is carried out partly by the
Ministry of Economy and Plan, which is responsible for regulating producer
prices and ristournes, quality control and the Price Stabilization Fund. The
Directorate of Cooperatives and Mutual Assistance (COOPMUT) in the Ministry
of Agriculture supervises the proper functioning of cooperatives - elections,
accounts, the constitution of proper reserves and staff. Apart from the 1%
commission on coffee sales, UCCAO's financial strength derives from its role
as manager of the "free" reserves of member-cooperatives. Free reserves are
made up of the difference between the f.o.b. price for coffee and the costs of
purchasing, processing and selling (after bonus payments and a mandatory
deduction of 20% of net income towards a legal reserve fund). Intended
primarily for price stabilization, such reserves may however be invested in
the rural sector subject to the approval of the Ministries of Agriculture and
of Economy and Plan. The auditing carried out by COOPMUT is at present
inadequate. A comparative statement of income and expense for 1977 is at
Table 1 and UCCAO's financial prospects are examined at Annex 11.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
6.        Provincial Delegation of Agriculture.  The Ministry of Agricul-
ture is represented in all provinces by a Provincial Delegate (DP) under
whom serve representatives of each of the directorates of the Ministry.
The same structure is repeated at the Departmental level except that, even
more than in Provincial Delegations, shortage of skilled manpower has re-
sulted in vacancies being left unfilled for long periods. At the provin-
cial level, the Delegate himself is the head of the "Service d'Agriculture"
which is responsible for field services, principally extension, pest con-
trol and the operation of nurseries. The chain of command goes through the
departmental delegate to the heads of the agricultural stations and sub-
stations of which there are 50 in the project area. For the province as
a whole there is, on average, one extension agent per 900 farmers. Agents
are school leavers who have very little or no formal training in agriculture
apart from a correspondence course which they are encouraged to take. The
problem of lack of means of communication is worse at this lowest level of
extension than at higher levels. Provincial and departmental officials can
only reach each other through messages sent by road. Budgetary allocations
for operating expenses are inadequate. Above all, there is no coordination
of programs under the control of the different directorates such as rural
infrastructure, field services and cooperative development. Further discus-
sion of the field services of Ministry of Agriculture is at Annex 3.
7.        FONADER is the Government agency responsible for administering
credit programs for small farmers and for financing rural infrastructural
works. Although under the supervision of Minag, FONADER has administrative
autonomy. Its three main functions are organized in the headquarters in
Yaounde under three directorates: (i) Credit which is responsible for
processing loan applications from individuals, cooperatives and development
companies; (ii) Administration and Finance which, in addition to personnel
and other internal matters, deals with credit disbursement and recovery,
procurement of items needed for FONADER-financed projects, and the finan-
cial control of FONADER operations; and (iii) Rural Operations which designs
and supervises the implementation of projects assigned to FONADER by Minag,
including sales of subsidized fertilizer, pest control programs for cocoa
and coffee, and seed multiplication. In the project area, FONADER finances
a well construction and maintenance program as well as pest control and nur-
sery operations implemented respectively by the rural engineering (Genie
Rural) and agricultural services of the Provincial Delegation. It also pur-
chases from the factory, and sells at a subsidized price to UCCAO, ferti-
lizer for coffee growers. FONADER's credit operations in the Western Pro-
vince are modest. In 1975/76, there were 120 loans totalling CFAF 78 mil-
lion (US$0.3 million) made to farmers and farmers groups, mostly for coffee
improvement (50%) and fertilizer (35%). Table 2 shows the resources and
outlays of FONADER and its credit operations in the Western Province are
summarized in Table 3.
8.        The main weaknesses of FONADER are:
(a) Inadequate Capitalization: The bulk of its outlays in any
given year are to finance various subsidies operated by



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Government and administered by FONADER. For these opera-
tions FONADER gets a budgetary allocation from the Stabiliza-
tion Funds. Actual equity investments and capital grants are
min
(b) Insufficient Field Staff: For the most part, FONADER de-
pends on the field services of Minag or development com-
panies for loan administration as it has virtually no field
staff itself. In the project area, there is one account
officer, with neither the training nor the resources to pro-
vide adequate supervision of FONADER's portfolio; and
(c) Costly Credit Administration Procedures: Partly as a re-
sult of overcentralization of decision-making in Yaounde,
delays and errors in loan processing and loan recovery are
a serious problem. The net effect is a very costly delivery
and recovery system which continues functioning only because
Government subsidizes the operation of FONADER.
C. Project Execution
9.        Government would designate UCCAO as overall project manager, with
the functions of the latter to be detailed in a project agreement. This would
specify Government's obligations to provide the necessary funds and personnel
for project execution. Government would also ensure that its agencies and
departments would provide UCCAO with services as required for project exe-
cution under appropriate legal conventions (para 10). Credit would be under
the control of UCCAO's Financial Director. Coordination of the proposed
project with other development activity in the province would be provided by
an interministerial committee chaired by the Provincial Governor (para 15).
10.       For the execution of certain project components UCCAO would con-
tract with existing Government services. In each instance, the provincial
service concerned would create a special unit for the execution of the rele-
vant project component. The basis of UCCAO's financing and control would
be an annual work program and a related budget prepared by the agency and
approved by UCCAO. The project components involved and the respective ex-
ecuting agencies would be as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Component                         Executing Agency        UCCAO contracts with
(a)  Bottomlands Development      Provincial Service      Rural Works Department
of Genie Rural          Ministry of Agriculture
(b)  Water Points
(c)  Basic Research in Selected  IRAF                    ONAREST
Topics
11.       The two contracts for the execution of these subcomponents would
follow current practice in Cameroon and would, inter alia:
(a) specify the nature of the work to be carried out by the
executing agency on behalf of and with financing provided
by UCCAO;
(b) require the creation of an execution brigade whose oper-
ating and other costs would be budgeted and accounted for
separately;
(c) require the executing agency to submit the annual work
programs of such brigades to UCCAO for approval after
which such programs would become an integral part of
the contract; and
(d) define the procedures governing the financial relation-
ship of UCCAO and the agency concerned in respect of sub-
component execution, including the right of UCCAO to
audit the accounts of the special execution brigade.
Further details on the organization of these subcomponents are in the cor-
responding annexes.
Organization of Field Services
12.       Production.  Basic project activity in support of agricultural
production would be under direct managerial control of UCCAO. For this
purpose a new Directorate of Production Services would be formed whose in-
ternationally recruited head and local assistant would report directly to the
Managing Director of UCCAO (Chart 18088). There would be four units in this
directorate, which would have the following organization and functions:
(i) Extension Division would be headed by an internationally re-
cruited extension specialist with experience in smallholder
extension work, preferably in Africa. The role of the di-
vision would be to provide advice to project farmers in
the use of the technical packages described in Annex 3.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Representation in the field would be through five sector
offices headed by sector chiefs who would supervise tech-
nical officers, agricultural assistants and extension agents
based at service centers (Annex 6). Organization of exten-
sion activity would be based on the training and visit (T
and V) system. The principles of this sytem are at Annex 3,
which also contains further details on the extension service.
A special subdivision would be the Field Trial and Demonstra-
tion Unit (FTDU) which would be charged with studying improve-
ments in the farming system to promote soil conservation,
fertility maintenance and better crop husbandry in the con-
text of the special ecology of the project area. It would
establish demonstration plots on farmers fields as well as
on presently abandoned, degraded hilltops and slopes. To
meet expected demand for tree planting in connection with
demonstration of water-retention and erosion control mea-
sures, FTDU would include a small reforestation brigade (3
people) headed by a technical officer. The brigade would be
responsible for planting and maintaining tree and shrub
species with nursery material partly purchased from the pro-
vincial service of the forestry department and partly raised
by the Seed Production Unit (see (iii) below) of UCCAO.
(ii) Pest Control Unit (PCU). The nationally-financed pest con-
trol operation in the project area would be absorbed by
UCCAO and would be directly responsible for antestia con-
trol on smallholder coffee plantations. It would also
carry out scouting and inspection activities related to
other coffee pests (anthracnose and berry borer) and sup-
ervise farmers' spraying against these pests. PCU would
generally advice on and, as necessary, intervenue directly
in pest control on all other crops. There would be two
Phytosanitary Bases (PB) in the projected area, located
at Dschang and Foumbot, each with 2 or 3 pest control
brigades.
(iii) Seed Production Unit (SPU). As discussed in Annex 4, con-
tract seed multiplication in the project area is not fea-
sible and at present seed production activities are insigni-
ficant and uncoordinated. The project would therefore create
a Seed Production Unit under UCCAO's Director of Production.
Based on experience during the project, the possibility of
an independent commercial seed production unit would be
assessed after 4 years. SPU would be formed by the estab-
lishment of a mechanized seed farm of about 500 ha near
Foumbot for the production of improved groundnut and maize
seed based on foundation seed purchased from the research
station of IRAT at Dschang; and by the absorption of the
CEIPS (Centre de Production des Semences) station at Bafou



ANNEX 2
Page 7
for the multiplication of imported foundation seed of
potatoes and other vegetables. To provide a safety margin
for nursery material required for demonstration plots (see
(i) above), SPU would also operate a modest (1 ha) tree
nursery.
(iv)  Training and Publicity.  Extension coverage would be im-
proved from the present average level of I agent per 900
farmers to a target of 1 agent per 400 farmers. More agents
would therefore need to be recruited and trained. For
this purpose a Training Center would be established under
the project. The facility would also be used to provide re-
fresher courses for higher level extension staff and credit
administration and book-keeping courses for cooperative
staff. Permanent teaching staff would consist of the
head of the center, recruited internationally and two
Training Officers. Short term lecturers in specialized
subjects would be hired and financed under the project.
The neighboring research stations and the Agricultural
Training Institute at Dschang would be a ready and con-
venient source for such guest lecturers. A complex with
dormitory and communal facilities for 30 trainees as well
as office space, classrooms, library and reading room,
would be built in Bafoussam. The Center would also be
responsible for producing publicity material in support
of farmer education.
13.       UCCAO would take over extension personnel now working in the
project area under the Provincial Delegation of Agriculture as well as
existing pest control brigades and the CEIPS farm at Bafou. The terms
and conditions of the transfer of required personnel and assets to UCCAO
would follow existing practice in Cameroon and include the following major
provisions:
(a)  UCCAO management would have full control over personnel
and assets so transferred; and
(b)  Government would undertake to reintegrate into its exist-
ing services personnel transferred to or recruited by
UCCAO who are judged unsuitable after an appropriate
probationary period or as a result of a Government deci-
sion to organize development activity in a different
fashion from that proposed in this project.
14.       Certain key positions would need to be filled through international
recruitment because it is unlikely that qualified candidates would be found
in Cameroon. For each such post, the incumbent would have as a major and
explicit responsibility, the training of a local replacement to be accom-
plished within an agreed-upon time period. Positions affected are:



ANNEX 2
Page 8
(i) UCCAO Director of Production Services;
(ii) Chief of Extension Division;
(iii) Head of Field Trials and Demonstration Unit;
(iv)  Chief of the Seed Production Division;
(v) Seed Processing Specialist;
(vi) Chief of the Training and Publicity Division.
Job descriptions and draft terms of reference for each of these positions
are at Appendix 1. To expedite project implementation, the Director of
Production Services and the Head of Extension Division should be recruited
as early as possible.
15.       The organization of crop marketing is discussed in Annex 9.  Credit
and input distribution to farmers would be based on existing procedures used
by the cooperatives as discussed in Annex 6.  The Provincial Inter-Ministerial
Coordinating Committee (para 9 above) is in effect the Governor's Council,
on which sit the provincial representatives of the various Government minis-
tries. It meets infrequently in plenary session but special working groups
are often convened to deal with specific problems. There would be at least
two meetings a year to coordinate the implementation of various development
projects, including the one proposed here and the Bank-financed Feeder Roads
Project.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
16.       General.  Farming systems in the project area are particularly
complex (Annex 3). Agricultural production measures proposed in the project
are believed to be capable of increasing productivity without damaging the
ecology. The project management entity would, because of its role in coffee
exporting, record increases in coffee production. However, it would not have
the means to keep track of food crop production and the effects of project
actions on microecology. It is therefore necessary to have a Project Moni-
toring Unit (PMU) which would provide information to help both Government
and the Bank in supervising project implementation, by concentrating on a
limited number of performance indicators. On the basis of its findings from
surveying key indicators and in agreement with project management, PMU would
also study one or two key problems in detail, with appropriate backstopping
provided by the Planning Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture (DEP).
17.       Monitoring.  The objective would be to record changes in farm in-
puts and outputs over time as an index of project impact. PMU would con-
duct a base-line survey in PY 1 which would seek to inventory the resources



ANNEX 2
Page 9
of a sample of farm families and to record their farming activities over one
crop season. The survey would establish labor and land availability, sex,
age, and educational characteristics of the population, prevalence of small
farm tools, storage capacity, distance between farm and nearest source of
clean water. Then in each of PY 2 and PY 4, a periodic questionnaire would
be administered to farmers in the sample: to identify when farming operations
are carried out and how much time is devoted to these, the frequency of exten-
sion agent visits and the topics discussed; and to estimate yields, production
and marketed quantities of foodstuffs, and the use of farm inputs. Appropriate
questionnaires would be worked out with the help of DEP. P.M.U. would be
headed by a qualified Cameroonian agro-economist assisted by a statistician
and would be attached directly to the office of the Director of Production
Services of UCCAO.
18.       Evaluation.  To carry out a detailed evaluation of the impact of
the proposed project and others in Cameroon, a Project Evaluation Unit would
be established in the Planning Unit (DEP) of the Ministry of Agriculture.
The Evaluation Unit would be headed by an agricultural economist whose ex-
perience and qualifications (Appendix 1) would be acceptable to IDA and would
be responsible to the Director of DEP. The Evaluation Unit would help the
Monitoring Unit of UCCAO and other project-implementing agencies of Govern-
ment to develop appropriate questionnaires and would provide technical sup-
port to such agencies in the analysis of data collected in the course of
project implementation. The Evaluation Unit would have responsibility for
preparing a report on project performance upon the disbursements of the
Credit. Finally, the Evaluation Unit would contract for a feasibility study,
to be financed under this project, of a follow-up development project for
the Western Highlands.



ANNEX 2
Appendix I
Page 1
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Job Descriptions - Key Staff
A. Executive Controller
Responsibilities and Duties
The Executive Controller would report directly to the Managing
Director of UCCAO. His main responsibility would be to refine (and supervise
the implementation of) UCCAO's accounting and reporting system by developing
analytical accounting tools and procedures. Specifically, he would:
(a) design and implement accounting procedures for the
operations of a Revolving Credit Fund in collaboration
with cooperatives;
(b) consolidate budgets submitted by entities responsible for
implementation of project actions;
(c) on the basis of (b), prepare, and submit through the Ministry
of Finance, requests for disbursements of the Credit
and keep up-to-date records of all project-related expen-
ditures;
(d) prepare, and update periodically, an investment and operat-
ing budget for UCCAO; and
(e) design and implement a procurement system following the
guidelines contained in IBRD publications on the matter.
Qualifications and Experience
The incumbent would be someone with a recognized professional
qualification in accounting and would have had at least six years' experience
in a responsible executive position with a successful commercial enterprise.
Experience in Africa and familiarity with the accounting system used by the
UDEAC countries would be an advantage. The working language would be French
and a knowledge of English is desirable.
B. Head of the Production Services Department
Responsibilities and Duties
The Director of Production Services (DPS) would head a newly created
Department in UCCAO which would be responsible for field activities in support



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 2
of agricultural production to be carried out by four divisions - Extension,
Pest Control, Seed Production, and Training. DPS would plan, coordinate and
control the activities of these divisions and would ensure liaison between
his department and Government agencies involved in agricultural field services
and research. He would also liaise with the other departments of UCCAO and
with cooperative management to ensure the efficient coordination of produc-
tion services with marketing and credit activities. A specific duty of DPS
would be to ensure that Cameroonian staff are trained to replace expatriate
management and, for this purpose, would establish a phased training program
which would be reviewed periodically by Government and IDA after approval by
UCCAO's Managing Director.
Qualifications and Experience
Professional training in tropical agriculture would be a requirement.
Even more important would be extensive experience in the field of agricultural
extension and its administration, particularly in a tropical setting. Know-
ledge of the Training and Visit System would be an advantage.
C. Chief of Extension Division
Responsibilities and Duties
The Chief Extension Officer (CEO) would report to the Director of
Production Services and would manage the operations of Field Extension Ser-
vices, including the Bottomlands Cultivation Unit, The Field Trials and
Demonstrations Unit, and the Reforestation Brigade. His duties include
preparation and control of the budget of the division, management of extension
personnel, preparation and administration of an in-service training program
for extension staff in the context of the Training and Visit System, and
overall coordination and control of general extension activity.
Qualifications and Experience
Same as for DPS (B. above).
D. Chief, Seed Production Division
Responsibilities and Duties
The Seeds Officer (SO) would be in charge of the two seed production
farms to be establiished under the project. He would be responsible for:
(a) procurement for breeder seed;
(b) installation and operation of seed processing machinery;



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 3
(c) supervision of seed multiplication plots and processing
activity; and
(d) arranging delivery of seed to cooperatives.
The SO would oversee the operations of the workshop and would liaise with
research stations and Government agencies in the project area already involved
in seed production and nursery operations.
Qualifications and Experience
A degree in Agronomy and five years' experience in large scale seed
production would be required.
E. Chief of Training Division
Responsibilities and Duties
The Senior Training Officer (STO) would be in charge of the Training
Center and would be responsible for planning and implementing training pro-
grams for extension and cooperative staff and for supervising the production
of audiovisual aids to be used in farmer training and extension work. The STO
would prepare and control the budget of the training division, recruit teach-
ing staff for training programs as required, and assist the Chief Extension
Officer in planning and implementing in-service training programs for exten-
sion staff at all levels.
Qualifications and Experience
The STO should have a degree in agricultural (or rural) education
followed by considerable field experience in the training of both senior and
junior extension staff and of farmers. He should be a good organizer and
should be able to communicate effectively.
F. Head of Evaluation Unit (DEP)
Responsibilities and Duties
The Head of the Evaluation Unit in DEP would supervise a base line
survey in PY I to be conducted by the Monitoring Unit of UCCAO which would
be followed up in the second and fourth year of the project in order to
identify changes in farmer resources and uses thereof as well as changes in
production and income. In the course of project implementation, the Evalua-
tion Unit would also be required to undertake special diagnostic studies at
the request of Project Management, IDA or the Ministry of Agriculture. He
would be required at the end of the project investment period to evaluate



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 4
the impact of project actions in a report to IDA. Knowledge of English
would be useful since the incumbent would find it useful to collaborate with
IITA (Ibadan, Nigeria). The head of the Evaluation Unit would co-direct con-
sultants who would study the feasibility of a following project based on the
experience of the proposed project.
Qualifications and Experience
The candidate would be required to have a degree in agro-economy
(agriculture with economics subspecialization or agricultural economics).
He should have demonstrated analytical ability and be able to train local
staff and supervise professional consultants.
G. Head of Field Trials and Demonstration Unit
Responsibilities and Duties
The Head of FTDU would be expected to set up experimental plots
on farmer-owned land designed to demonstrate the advantages of husbandry
practices appropriate to the ecology of the project area. He would be
responsible for the day-to-day management of such plots and the organization
of farmer and extension agent visits. The major themes would be soil con-
servation and erosion control in mountainous areas using eco-farming methods.
He would also supervise a Reforestation Brigade which would be charged with
the planting and maintenance of productive trees with erosion-retardant
properties.
Qualifications and Experience
The candidate should have university training in general agriculture
or a related subject. Above all, he should have experience in extension work
especially in mountainous tropical forest zones (e.g. Rwanda). Experience
with small farmer extension work is the most important requirement.



ANNEX 2
CAMEROON                              Table 1
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UCCAO: Consolidated Balance Sheets 1/
Oct. 30   Dec. 31   Dec. 31  Dec. 31  Nov. 30
1971      1972       1973     1974      1976
--------------- CFAF Million ----------------
ASSETS
Fixed Assets (Net)                      445        412       417       502       627
Current Assets
Inventories                         1,175     1,440        528       T50      537
Accounts Receivablel/               1,126     1,249      2,834    1,856    5,254
Cash Items 1/                           _                                     443
Subtotal                          2,301     2,689      3,362    2,606    6,234
Less Current Liabilities
Short-term Debt                       1,088     1,668      1,575       652    1,038
Accounts Payable                                        -         -              -
Subtotal                           1,o88     1,668      1,575       652    1,038
Working Capital                         1,213      1,021     1,787    1,954    5,196
Total Assets                            1,658     1,433      2,204    2,456    5,823
LIABILITIES
Capital L/                            1,003     1,395      1,422    1,691       334
Legal Reserves v                        _-                   -         -      1,882
Undistributed Earnings                  655         38       782       765    3,607
Long-Term Debt                      -__                  _      __-
Total Liabilities                       1,658     1,433      2,204    2,456    5,823
Source: UCCAO - Unaudited accounts
1971-74 figures lump A/R with Cash Items and Capital with Reserves.



ANNEX 2
CAMEROON                         Table 2
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Resources and Outlays of FONADER 1/
Actual      Budgeted 2/      Budgeted
1974/5       1975/6           1976/7
---- CFAF Million-----------
RESOURCES                     4,021        4,502            6,037
Subsidy from stabilization funds                3,017        3,106             3,945
Government operating subsidy                       200          200              200
World Bank: Loan 1039-CM(Cocoa)                    -            122              115
Loan 983-CM (Livestock)               -            -                102
Carry-over funds and stocks                        550          550              560
Sales of pesticides                               200           200              400
Reimbursement of loans                             -            230              450
EDF Grant                                                       -                150
Miscellaneous income                               104           94              115
OUTLAYS                      4,021        4,502            6,037
(1)  SUBSIDIZED OPERATIONS                      2,205        2,467             3,645
of which:
cocoa program                             (920)        (930)          (1,578)
arabica coffee program                    (272)        (273)            (398)
robusta coffee program                    (315)        (330)            (430)
fertilizer subsidies                      (450)        (450)            (450)
rural water supply program                (150)        (1OO)            (100)
livestock program                          -            -               (215)
(2)  LOAN  DISBURSEMENTS                        1,022        1,154            1,618
of which:
seasonal credit                          (n.a)         (444)            (534)
farm inputs                              (n.a)         ( 80)            (184)
mechanization and farm impr.             (n.a)         (400)            (560)
livestock                                (n.a)         (1OO)            (200)
miscellaneous                            (n.a)         (1OO)            (140)
(3)  MISCELLANEOUS AND OPERATIONS 3/              258          247              120
(4)  FONADER EQUIPMENT AND OPERATING              536          634              654
BUDGET
1/ FY begins July 1st
2/ Approved accounts not yet available
3/ Includes World Bank cocoa project until 1976/77, when cocoa programs are
merged in subsidized operations budget. From 1976/77, livestock program
also brought into budget.



ANNE% 2
Table 3
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FONADER Credits Operations in Western Province (1975/1976) (a)
Number      Amount         Average   Maturity
of     FCFA Million       Amount   of Loans
Loans                   FCFA 1000   (years)        Purpose
A. TO COOPERATIVES
Robusta Coffee Growers
Bangangte (Nde)           1          5.00            5.000       3     Coffee Improve-
ment
B. TO G.A.M. (b)            22         23.94            1,088       3     Coffee Improve-
ment
16         10.02              626      2      Fertilizer
52         17.00              327      1      Fertilizer
90         50.96              566
C. TO INDIVIDUALS           23         15.15              659 )           Coffee Improve-
ment
2          3.75            1)875 )           Pig Husbandry
1          0.22              220 )           Food Crops
2 -5
1          2.00              200 )           Water Supply
2          0.83              415 )           Construction
Materials
29         21.95              757
TOTAL
Western Province           120         77.91
TOTAL Cameroon                        820.00
a) July 1st, 1975 - March 30, 1976
b) Groupements d'Agriculteurs Modernes
Source: FONADER.



CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UCCAO: ORGANIZATION OF FIELD SERVICES
DIRECTOR OF
PRODUCTION
SERV ICES
L   TRAINING                         P  EST CONTROL (a)   |                       EXTENSTAION  laND                             S EED PRODUCTION 
Traininiwg Center                    Phyto B3Fe I                                                                               Nursery 1
(2 or 3
brigades)            Sector                  Sector                Sector
Chief A                 Chief B               Chief C
Publicity                           Phyto Base 11          (b)                      (b)                     (b)                 Nursery 11
(2 or 3
brigades)
Workshop
Extension
Agents (c)
Seed
Processing
As Required
(a) Based at headquarters                                             Demonstration
(b) Correspond to departmental cooperatives                           Unit
(cl Correspond to cooperative sections
Bottomiands  |
Cultivation
Unit
World Bank - 18088






CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UCCAO: PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
r-- -- - - - -_ - - ---
l                                           l
GENERAL MANAGER                              EECUTIVE  (x) 
1                     ,X                                          I
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE AND                     COMMERCIAL SERVICES                         PRODUCTION SERVICES       l
ADMINISTRATION (a)                           DEPARTMENT            |                    DEPARTMENT (x}         l
Personnel                                  Factory                                -  Training Division (xt         I
UCCAO Accounts                            Technical Services                          Extension and Demonstration
I             Division (x}
Project Accounts                          Transport                    I              Pest Control Division        I
- - -J                                                               I 
Credit                               -    Sales                                       Seed Production Division
I              Division (xl
_                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                              I
- -  - - To be created                                                                       World Bank - 18089
(xl Key Positions: to be filled through international
recruitment
(a) Deputy General Manager






ANNEX 9
Page 1
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Markets and Prices
A. Coffee
Production Trends
1.        Cameroon produces both arabica (about 25-30,000 tons per year) and
robusta (60,000 ton per year) coffee, practically all exported. All the
arabica comes from the plateau areas of the Western Highlands where most
production is carried out by small farmers organized in cooperatives (UCCAO
and BCA); a small proportion (about 10%) is produced on semi-industrial
plantations whose owners, Cameroonian and expatriate, are loosely organized
into a planters group, COOPAGRO.
2.        The constituent cooperatives of UCCAO together account for the bulk
of arabica coffee production in Cameroon. Since 1961, when UCCAO was given
the monopoly for the purchase of smallholder grown arabica in the Western
Province, production has grown from 2,200 tons of clean coffee to a peak of
22,600 tons in 1973. However, in the four seasons since 1973, production
has consistently declined apart from a recovery to almost 20,000 tons in 1975;
production for the 1977 season is expected to be less than 11,000 tons (Table
1).
3.        Marked reversal in the earlier upward trend has been attributed to
the following:
(a) disaffection of coffee growers in favor of foodcrops
for which prices have risen relatively much faster than
coffee and which are less labour-demanding; most food-
crop prices have doubled between 1973 and 1977 while
the guaranteed minimum price for arabica has risen
only 45 percent;
(b) a sharp fall-off in fertilizer consumption since
1972, the year marking the end of a FED-financed
subsidy scheme for compound fertilizer and the
start of a continuing increase in sales prices
of fertilizers (until new subsidies were intro-
duced for the 1976 season);
(c) poor growing conditions, with abnormally prolonged
dry seasons in 1975/76 and 1976/77;



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(d) a decline in the effectiveness of the coffee pest and
disease control program, organized by the Ministry of
Agriculture - in 1975 only 1,175 ha were sprayed against
anthracnose out of a total of 32,000 ha reported as infected;
(e) ageing of the coffee trees - while reliable information on
the age-structure is lacking, this may have been a con-
tributory factor to the decline, especially in the Menoua
where arabica was first introduced.
Both discussion in the field and statistical analysis tend to confirm the
first two of the above factors as the most significant over the medium- and
short-term respectively, with a fairly sharp decline in profitability of
coffee vis-a-vis foodcrops as the primary cause of the reversed trend,
exacerbated by the other factors.
4.        Apart from the weather and the natural ageing of the trees, the
other adverse factors are all susceptible to fairly rapid correction (and are,
in the first two cases, at least, already being improved) by:
(a) an increase in the arabica producer price,
(b) subsidy on fertilizers, and
(c) efforts to improve pest control.
In addition, it is possible that with a return to normal weather conditions
the rapid price increases for foodcrops experienced during 1976-77 may
moderate. This could give some temporary additional respite to the per-
spective terms of trade between coffee and foodcrops, even though these could
decline further in the long-run (from the mid-1980's) depending on Government
policies on producer prices for coffee. Between now and about 1982, however,
it is reasonable to expect some revival of grower's interest in coffee which
would permit production to regain, by the end of the project period,
approximately the past peak level achieved, i.e. about 23,000 tons, followed
by a more gradual upward trend.
Primary Marketing and Processing
5.        Most of the basic functions of buying, processing and storing
coffee are in the hands of the individual cooperatives. Each cooperative
has a number of collection centers (some with permanent structures), a
central warehouse and mobile purchasing teams. Depulping, fermentation,
washing and drying are done by the grower. Poor harvesting by smallholders
is responsible for the defect known as "stinking beans" (para 19). Sort-
ing, done by hand or by UCCAO's 7,000 tons capacity electronic facility
at Bafoussam, is a major bottleneck (para 30). Hulling and grading capacity
is adequate.
6.        Producer Price.  The producer receives a guaranteed minimum
price paid in two instalments and fixed by Government. In addition,



ANNEX 9
Page 3
again after approval by Government, UCCAO distributes an end-season bonus.
For the 1976-77 season the minimum prices were CFAF 225/kg for washed
arabica and CFAF 195/kg for unwashed. UCCAO paid an end-season bonus
(ristourne) to growers (payable on washed arabica only) of CFAF 100/kg
(1976:60).
7.        It should be noted that the above prices are all paid on the basis
of clean coffee (cafe marchand), i.e. after deduction of standard factors
for hulling losses, and on the basis of the sampled percentage of full
beans (bon grain) in any lot presented for purchase. The cooperatives
therefore g:in from (i) sale of immature/broken beans (dechets) for which
the grower is not paid, and (ii) any reduction in actual dehulling losses
over the standard factors applied at time of purchase, which are 20 percent
for parchment coffee (i.e. washed) and 50 percent for dried cherry (i.e.
unwashed). Processed coffee kept in storage after July before shipment
may also gain 1-2 points in weight through moisture resorption, occasionally
also permitting some upgrading of the smaller D and F grade beans to B grade.
8.        The difference in coffee weight at sale over the calculated weight
at time of purchase from growers is referred to as "bonification" and averages
2-2 1/2 percent. Coffee growers ultimately benefit from both bonification
and sale of dechets, of course, because these augment the fund available for
distribution as ristourne; however this link is not always clearly perceived
by the grower, who tends particularly to resent the penalization of dechets
(which also reduces the base for payment of ristourne).
9.        In the past, producer prices have not risen as fast as food crop
prices. Indeed, the available data suggests that the production terms of
trade between arabica coffee and food crops has been in consistent decline
since 1968, except for a modest improvement during 1970 (Table 7). The
recent high world market price will allow the situation to improve some-
what, and further improvements can be expected as a result of expected
increases in food crop production which should ease the upward pressure
on food prices experienced in recent years (para 4).
Export Marketing
10.       The Bank's Commodities and Export Projection Division staff forecast
a rapid growth in world import demand for coffee between 1980 and 1985.
During this period the growth rate of demand would be about 2.6% per annum
but is expected to decline to about 1.8% per annum during the second half
of the 1980's. In the member countries of the European Community, to which
most of UCCAO's coffee is exported, import demand for coffee will grow at
a slightly higher rate..
11.       UCCAO is responsible for export sales of coffee produced by its
constituent cooperatives. For this, it employs a broker with offices in
Le Havre and New York. Under present arrangements, sample lots are sent to



ANNEX 9
Page 4
the broker who then negotiates prices with ultimate purchasers, inform-
ing UCCAO by telex at each stage. Shipment and receipt of payments are
effectively handled respectively by SOCOPAO, a forwarding agent and the
Societe Commerciale de Banque (SCB), both located in Douala.
12.       Export Prices and Quality Discount.  One of the major problems in
the production of good quality arabica coffee is the elimination of bad,
off-flavor beans - known as "hidden stinkers" (feves puantes) - from the crop
before roasting, after which the unpleasant flavor can permeate and spoil the
whole batch.
13.       Stinking beans are undetectable to both the human eye and con-
ventional optical sorting machines. In the trade they are positively detected
only by a cup-test of a small roasted and ground sample. It follows that in
practice the presence of one or more stinkers in a lot is undetectable except
in the unlikely event of one being included in the trade sample. As a result,
a known risk of finding stinking beans systematically depreciates the market
value of all coffee of that particular origin as is the case with smallholder-
grown arabica coffee from Cameroon (though not with estate-grown coffee).
Though figures are not available it has been reported that the number of lots
exported by UCCAO containing stinking beans has increased in recent years and
UCCAO has had to accept heavy discounts or even outright rejection on certain
lots, notably on sales to the most discriminating markets of Northern Europe.
14.       Determination of the average discount applied to UCCAO coffee is made
difficult by application of different standards on different export markets,
preferences on European Community markets for coffee originating in associated
countries and price variations due to fluctuating exchange rates and timing of
sales. On the market of Le Havre, however, UCCAO coffee is almost all classed
as "lave" (Mild), not "lave-choix" (Choice Mild), the grading applied to
coffee produced on neighboring COOPAGRO plantations. During the last five
years the difference between Mild and Choice Mild arabicas on normal markets
at Le Havre has averaged about FF 0.50 or CFAF 25 per kg, and ranged between
about 2 and 8 percent of the price for mild coffee.
15.       Reference to Table 2, which compares average selling prices for
UCCAO coffee (nearly all sold FOB) with annual average prices for Guatemalan
prime washed coffee, spot New York, since 1961, gives an indication that the
relative discount applied to UCCAO coffee may have widened somewhat over
the years, despite the problems of comparing averages of prices on different
markets already referred to. Comparison of averages over 5-year periods
is as follows, converted to CFAF/kg in either case:
(A) UCCAO              (B) Guatemalan
average FOB            pr. washed
sales price            spot N.Y.       A/B (%)
av. 1961-65               213.8                   219.4           (97.4)
av. 1966-70               229.4                   238.8           (96.1)
av. 1971-75               291.4                   310.0           (94.0)



ANNEX 9
Page 5
A more detailed comparison for 1976 sales is given at Appendix 1, where the
corresponding percentage (for UCCAO/Guatemalan spot N.Y.) would be only
about 86% and the estimated average discount, allowing for costs from FOB to
CIF Europe, was 9.1 percent.
16.       The fact that UCCAO coffee between 1961-75 achieved selling prices
as high as 94-97 percent of Guatemalan prime washed is in part attributable
to the 7 percent preference on coffee from associated countries granted in
the EEC, where most of the better grades of UCCAO coffee are still sold.
(This preference was reduced to 5 percent in 1975). Thus the true discount,
taking Guatemalan as the yardstick and allowing for freight and insurance
costs, etc., is estimated to have been around 8-10 percent during this period.
17.       For the purposes of forecasting UCCAO gross receipts and estimating
project benefits, it is estimated that on an expected falling market the
average discount for UCCAO coffee would remain at 10 percent through 1985,
without measures to improve quality and grading. With the measures proposed
under the project for improving production, processing and sorting techniques
(discussed below) it is forecast that this discount can be gradually narrowed
by 1 point per year, starting 1979, to reach 5 percent in 1983 (and remain
at that level). By this time the estimated improvement in unit value would
be about CFAF 40/kg forecast in current prices (Table 5).
Project Proposals
18.       To improve coffee processing and quality the project would take
measures to: (i) combat the problem of stinking beans, (ii) increase de-
pulping machines owned by project area farmers; (iii) improve the amount
and quality of water available for depulping; and (iv) remove the bottleneck
created by inadequate mechanical sorting capacity.
19.       Stinking Beans.  It is noteworthy that the appearance of stinkers
is almost exclusively related to coffee originating in countries where small-
holder planters carry out their own processing to parchment stage. The
phenomenon is reported to have practically disappeared in those countries,
such as Kenya, where smallholders have been successfully organized around
communal pulperies supplied with adequate clean water. Research carried
out both in West and East Africa had for some time associated stinkers
with the death of the germ in the bean (occasionally marked by a blackish
tint in the centre-cut); but it was generally thought that this was the
result of damage by the Mediterranean fruit fly, although overheating during
fermentation was also recognized as a possible factor.
20.       However, as a result of tests carried out in the UCCAO area since
1971/72, the IFCC in Cameroon has now definitely confirmed that poor process-
ing techniques by the farmers are responsible for the stinking beans, spe-
cifically due to the prolonged delay between cherry harvest and depulping,
which often is then carried out very imperfectly in polluted water. IFCC have
shown that it is possible completely to eliminate the production of stinkers



ANNEX 9
Page 6
from smallholder-grown coffee by carrying out a clean depulping no more than
24 hours after harvest, followed by a correct fermentation, washing and
drying; and conversely that it is possible to produce stinkers from good
cherry in the laboratory by permitting an alcoholic fermentation of the
cherry before depulping, which causes the interior of a sack or drum of cherry
to heat up to the point where the germ is killed, thus starting a process of
microbiological decomposition.
21.       From the foregoing the following four points may be stated as necessary
conditions for the elimination of stinkers from parchment coffee (these in
themselves are not sufficient conditions for the production of top grade green
coffee out of the factory - other improvements at farmer and factory level
ideally are required):
(a) all cherry must be depulped within 24 hours of picking;
(b) the depulped cherry (i.e. parchment coffee) should be
fermented only just long enough for all the mucilage to
be separated from the bean (the time will vary according
to a number of factors - atmosphere temperature, volume
of container, quality of depulping, etc. and no hard and
fast rule can or should be given: the usual test for
completion of fermentation is done by washing some coffee
in a basin of water - if it still feels slimy fermenta-
tion is incomplete). Also it is essential for fermentation
to be carried out in properly cleaned tanks or other
containers. A prewashing and floating of pulped beans could
also remove antestia-damaged beans;
(c) the parchment coffee must be thoroughly washed after
fermentation in clean running water, to remove all
the broken-down mucilage;
(d) after washing the parchment should be spread in a thin
layer (not more than 10 cm deep) on a clean surface to
dry in the sun for at least 10 days.
Under the project the extension service would concentrate on these four points
during the coffee harvesting and processing period. It would emphasize to
coffee farmers the importance of eliminating stinking beans from UCCAO coffee
because these reduce the price at which it can be sold, and therefore the
end-season bonus.
22.       Apart from extension advice the project would provide for material
assistance to improve coffee quality at three specific points during post-
harvest processing: 1/
1/   Quality will also be improved by pre-harvest measures such as better
pest control and improved cultural methods.



ANNEX 9
Page 7
(a) additional coffee depulping machines;
(b) water points for coffee depulping and washing; and
(c) additional sorting machines at the UCCAO grading
factory.
23.       Coffee depulping machines.  At present it is estimated that there
are not more than 9,000 hand depulpers in the project area, a ratio of only
1 per 9 planters (10 ha coffee). The depulpers are relatively expensive,
costing about CFAF 60,000 each for the type most commonly used (Bentall
'Baby 2-1/2' - capacity about 250 kg cherry per hour) but they are very durable
and only require replacement of the copper sleeve covering the breast about
once every 10 seasons, according to UCCAO (cost CFAF 7,800). 1/ The low
density of depulping machines must be an important reason for the frequent
delays in pulping coffee (principal factor in origin of stinkers) and while it
is not absolutely necessary for every coffee farmer to own his own machine
(loan and hire being commonly practised) the project would aim to progressive-
ly double the present number of machines in action by the end of the full
development period (PY 9). Annual sales of depulpers exceeded 1,000 during
the period of UCCAO's rapid expansion but have now dropped to about 500,
probably only just sufficient to maintain the total number in working order.
The project would aim to increase sales (through co-op service centers) to
1,000 per year, making 3-year credit for purchase available as required.
24.       Water points for coffee depulping.  The lack of ample clean
water supplies has long been identified as a major cause of faulty coffee
preparation. Either the planter is obliged to take his cherry and depulper
down to a stream or bog and do his depulping in polluted water containing
a high proportion of organic matter in suspension; or women and children are
sent to bring tins of water for depulping to the compound, in which case
the quantity employed is invariably less than adeqate (about 10 liters per kg
cherry is recommended by IFCC for depulping and washing).
25.       An earlier study carried out by French consultants (SATEC) had
recommended the creation of central or communal pulperies as the solution
to this problem, along the lines of those found in parts of East Africa.
However these have been considered as yet unsuitable both by UCCAO and the
appraisal mission for the following reasons:
(a) centralized depulping stations, because of their cost
(estimated in 1974 at about CFAF 20 million each),
would have to serve a relatively large area and
1/   A local company at Bamenda has also been making depulpers.  Although
these sell for about CFAF 40,000 each, farmers have not been satisfied
with them because they are not as solid as the imported version and are
reported to have an average life of only two seasons.



ANNEX 9
Page 8
number of farmers, requiring additional organization of
deliveries, etc.;
(b) for this reason, because of the distances involved,
some kind of lorry collection system for cherry would
be required, adding considerably to costs of production;
(c) the payment and sampling system would have to be
changed from one based on dry parchment to fresh
cherry; and
(d) such a system does not fit in well with the present stage
of the UCCAO cooperative structure, which is still in-
sufficiently well developed at the primary level to take on
the running of such centers.
26.       Instead, an alternative system is proposed for the project, which
represents a less radical improvement in processing methods and organization
than centralized pulperies, bud which fits in better with the present evolu-
tion of cooperatives and essentially individualistic behavior of planters.
This system would depend on the network of about 220 clean drinking-water
points which are proposed primarily to serve the domestic needs of the rural
communities in the project area (Annex 8). In addition, about 40 existing
schemes would be rehabilitated, making about 260 total to be developed during
the project, at an average cost of CFAF 0.765 million, including the cost
of provision for coffee processing.
27.       This would simply take the form of providing four cement tanks
at each point, two reception tanks and two fermentation/washing tanks.
The reception tanks would be of about 0.75 m3 capacity. Hopper-shaped
sections would allow mud and stones to be trapped at the bottom and would
permit separation of the good, heavy cherry, through a siphon, from the
'floaters', a first essential for producing an even-graded coffee. The
cherry is siphoned from the lower part of the reception tank to the depupling
machine, which the planter positions on a special ledge above the second and
larger (2 m3) tank, which then serves for both fermentation and washing (the
construction of separate washing channels as found on modern plantations
being considered an unjustified expense at this stage). A lay-out
diagram is shown at Figure 1.
28.       The proposed arrangement implies that each planter interested
in using these facilities will bring his cherry (from the morning's or
previous evening's picking) and his own or rented depulper. Given the
proposed density of proposed water points (average radius 2 km, and more
frequent in more densely-populated areas), the distance to carry the cherry
and depulper, by hand or by wheelbarrow, should be acceptable for the
majority of farmers. In any event farmers will find it preferable to
carry their cherry to the water rather than vice versa, since even though
water-carrying is only a one-way load it is ten times as heavy as the cor-
responding amount of cherry.



ANNEX 9
Page 9
29.       Since fermentation will normally take 18-24 hours, farmers will have
the problem of guarding their parchment coffee while it remains in the fermen-
tation tanks. They may decide to post guard-boys; but to discourage theft
each fermentation tank would be fitted with a hinged, welded mesh cover
capable of being secured to a staple sunk into the concrete with the farmers'
own padlock. 1/ The rectangular fermentation tanks would slope towards an
outlet for drainage and all internal corners should be rounded to facilitate
emptying and cleaning.  Fart-,  would be encouraged to clean the tanks after
each use. The local cooperative section would be responsible for ensuring
that all members had fair access to the facilities and for organizing con-
tributions of labor and/or materials (e.g. cement) for maintenance and repair
when required by Genie Rural, the agency primarily responsible for construc-
tion and maintenance of these water facilities.
30.       Electronic sorting machines.  After delivery of dried parchment
coffee from farmers, it is hulled, size-graded by machine and then hand-
sorted. This hand-sorting has for some years constituted the principal
bottleneck to the efficient conduct of the campaign. It is mainly done by
women and children: a good sorter can pick over 1 bag (60 kg) of beans per
day, but an average would not be more than 50/kg/person/day. For a typical
coop factory having two hulling/grading lines each of 12 tons/day (working
two 8-hour shifts), this level of productivity requires the employment of 480
sorters at each factory, plus necessary supervision. Unfortunately labour is
increasingly difficult to find in the towns where the factories are situated
and some coops (notably Foumbot) have had recourse to transporting hulled
coffee back to the villages for sorting. Also, the employment of women and
children for this task has been criticized by inspectors of the Ministry of
Labor, particularly as the cooperatives cannot realistically afford to pay the
full Minimum Wage Rate, which is CFAF 350/day (SMAG) - pickers are presently
paid half of this. If the official rates were paid, the cost of labor for
manual sorting would be about CFAF 7 per kg (without allowance for supervision
or back-transport). It is also apparent that, due to the tedious nature of
the work and the difficulty of supervision, the work is carried out on the
whole in a perfunctory manner, with many defective beans unsorted.
1/   Because of the problem of guarding their coffee during the minimum of
10 days necessary for complete sun-drying, it is assumed that farmers
will take their washed parchment home for this operation. For an
average daily throughput of 4-5 tons of cherry, or about the equivalent
of 1 ton/da! dried parchment, it would require the construction of
about 500 m of cement drying-floors at each point to cater for 10 days
throughput spread evenly to a depth of 10 cm.



ANNEX 9
Page 10
31.       For these reasons UCCAO decided in about 1972 to create an
electronic sorting facility at Bafoussam, to help (on a fee-basis) its member
cooperatives to overcome this bottleneck. The first 4 machines installed were
found to be unsuitable and were dismounted and replaced by a bank of 10 bi-
chromatic optical sorters. Problems were encountered the first year (1974) in
trying to sort carry-over stock coffee which had blanched during the rainy
season, but since then performance has been satisfactory. It is clearly
understood that these existing machines, which sort by colour difference,
are not capable of screening stinking beans undetectable to the human eye.
At an average throughput of 100 kg/hr per machine, these 10 machines have
an annual capacity of 7,000 tons if fully used over a season of 300 days.
32.       It is proposed under the project to add an additional line of
10 electronic color-sorting machines at US$12,000 each, which would double
capacity to about 14,000 tons/year, equivalent to about half of expected
1982 production. In addition, UCCAO is expected to study the feasibility
of adding two or more ultra-violet sorting machines, which are claimed to be
capable of detecting 95 percent of 'hidden stinkers' undiscernible to the
human eye (due to their apparent trait of fluorescing under UV light while
normal beans do not). Costs for 2 of these UV machines are included (at
US$14,000 each) on the assumption that UCCAO's feasibility study will prove
positive.
33.       Operating Cost Comparison:  details given in UCCAO annual accounts
for 1976 show fairly high costs of operation for the electronic factory, of
around CFAF 7/kg based on the quotas of coffee expected to be sent by the
various co-ops for machine sorting (6,400 t), but over CFAF 10/kg based on
the actual tonnage sent (4,275 t). Total operating costs for the electronic
factory were CFAF 45mn, of which wages and salaries were CFAF 16 mn. The next
most important items were 'Other services consumed' (CFAF 13 mn) and Amortiza-
tion at CFAF 10 mn (this includes amortization of the building as the actual
ten machines only cost about CFAF 40 mn, including installation, in 1975). The
relevant details from UCCAO's accounts for 1976 are reproduced at Appendix 2.
34.       Estimated operating costs for 10 additional machines and per kg are
given below, based on an average hourly throughput of only 100 kg/hr, which
is one-third the manufacturer's rated maximum for green coffee (300 kg/hr) and
two-thirds of rates so far achieved by UCCAO. (This calculation excludes
costs for the proposed UV sorting machines for which actual operating data are
not yet available from UCCAO).



ANNEX 9
Page 11
Estimated Operating Costs for Additional 10 Electronic Sorting Machines
Total Annual        Cost per
Costs (1977)         kg (on
(CFAF mn)        7000 t/yr)
Variable Costs
Material                                        7.70               1.10
Transport                                       0.70               0.10
Miscellaneous                                   2.10               0.30
(sub-total)                              (10.50)            (1.50)
Fixed Costs
Salaries                                       11.0 /1             1.57
Other services                                 15.0 /2             2.14
Amortization                                    8.65 /3            1.24
(34.65)            (4.95)
Total (second line)                              45.15               6.45
/1   Personnel required to man second line would not rise proportionately:
2/3 of existing staff at 1977 salaries assumed.
/2   Details not given in accounts:  1976 amount plus 12 percent assumed.
/3   Calculated on basis of 10 machines at CFAF 4.0 mn each (installed)
amortized over 6 years at 8 percent.
35.       As may be seen from the above cost calculation, costs per kg
for machine sorting are higher than for manual sorting with labor paid
only CFAF 175/day as at present, i.e. CFAF 6.45/kg versus CFAF 3.5/kg,
or around CFAF/kg 4.0 including supervision of sorting labor. If labor
is paid at the minimum rate for agricultural work (SMAG: CFAF 350/day)
then manual sorting appears marginally more expensive in financial terms,
at about CFAF 7.5/kg including supervision. However the above cost estimates
for manual sorting do not take into account consequential costs arising
from
(a) necessity to slow down the factory and prolong the
campaign, because of a back-log in the sorting
shed;
(b) delayed export shipments and receipts (and occasionally
penalties for late shipment, if unforeseen);
(c) additional transport costs for coffee that has to
be taken to the villages for sorting; or



ANNEX 9
Page 12
(e) higher price discounts on sale due to incomplete
sorting of defective beans.
36.       The main questions concern the availability of labor for hand-
sorting at a higher wage rate, the social consequences of employing children
during school and the relative quality of work done by hand and by machine.
Over a 300-day season one machine, is able to sort about 12,000 bags (700 t) of
coffee against only 300 bags achieved by a good hand-picker. On this basis it
may be estimated that the additional 10 machines will displace about 400
women and children from employment. This is, however, only a small fraction
of the additional employment in agriculture and crop processing to be induced
by the project and which would directly involve women and, at certain seasons,
children. On balance, the conclusion reached is that providing machine
sorting capacity for about half of the expected coffee production is worth
undertaking since the net employment-displacement efforts will not be rela-
tively too great and the potential gains from improving coffee quality
and average sales value, estimated at about CFAF 27/kg (in 1977 prices) are
too large to ignore.
B. Foodcrops
Background
37.       With an average population density approaching 200/km  over most
of the Bamileke Plateau, with the spread of arabica coffee since the 1930's
to over 50 percent of the cultivated land area, and with the threat to soil
fertility and crop yields posed by the cultivation of food crops on near-
vertical slopes, the project area might appear to show all the signs of a
typical food deficit region, faced with the prospect of an imminent decline
into ecological and economic disaster.
38.       Fortunately, however, the actual situation in the Western Highlands
is very different. Thanks to its generally fertile soils of volcanic origin,
dependable and high rainfall, a reasonable road communications network and,
above all, to the enterprising nature of the local populations the Western
Province not only produces two-thirds of Cameroon's arabica coffee but also
is the major supplier of foodstuffs to the urban markets of the south. How-
ever, the increasing pressure on the land and the present effective lack of
organized extension or marketing services to farmers except for coffee would,
if left unchecked, place this agricultural structure in jeopardy. In the long
term, emigration and resettlement will doubtless prove necessary for an
increasing number of young people from the Bamileke Plateau. In the meantime
the project would provide the services, infrastructure and organization
required to maintain the progress of the rural economy of the region and to
enable it to further develop its marketed production of food crops, for which
the terms of trade relative to coffee are expected to continue to improve.



ANNEX 9
Page 13
Production
39.       Government estimates of foodcrop production, nationally and in
Western Province, suggest that the Western Province, with only 15 percent of
national population, produces 25-35 percent of national foodcrop production;
and in particular, over 60 percent of the country's maize, beans, potatoes and
vegetables.
40.       However, neither these statistics nor those produced up to 1976
by the Provincial Delegation of Agriculture, (which are frequently different),
can be given much credence, since (a) they would imply an impossibly high
movement of surplus produced out of the region (well over 1 million tons/
year); and (b) in relation to the crop area results of the 1972/73 Agricul-
tural Census carried out with FAQ technical assistance, implied crop yields
would be higher than are generally believed to be attained. (No proper yield
measurements were carried out in the Agricultural Census, however, as far as
can be determined from the preliminary report). Mission estimates of approx-
imate foodcrop production in the Province, based on Census acreage figures
and assumed yields, are given at Table 11. These calculations, although
very tentative, do suggest that Government estimates of production in the
region may be considerably overstated, by as much as 50 percent for maize
and 100 percent for combined rootcrops. If they are not, then on a reasonable
estimate of local consumption requirements the annual surplus of foodcrops to
be moved out of the Province would approximate 670,000 tons 1/, which would
be equivalent to about 35 percent of the Cameroon' s total consumption in 1975
of basic foodstuffs 2/, which seems improbable.
Regional Food Balance
41.       An alternative calculation of the food balance for the Province is
given at Table 9, based on more conservative estimates of maize, groundnut and
rootcrop production. This indicates an annual surplus (for export to other
Provinces or outside the country) of some 220,000 tons of foodcrops out of an
annual net supply of 656,000 tons or about one-third. The West is well-known
as the principal supplier of foodstuffs to the markets of Douala, Victoria and
Yaounde, particularly for maize, beans and fresh vegetables, and at least this
tonnage is compatible with the very heavy traffic counts recorded by the Trans-
port Ministry on the main road axes leading southwards out of the Province. 3/
A study carried out by SCET in 1965 estimated annual movements from the
Western Province of maize and beans as follows (in tons):
1/   Consisting of about 200,000 tons of maize, 350,000 t rootcrops and plain-
tains, 100,000 t groundnuts and beans, 20,000 t fruits and vegetables.
2/   As estimated in the World Bank's Western Africa Foodgrain Study
Table 2.2 (September 1976).
3/   A.D.T. of over 2,000 vehicles per day on Bafang/Melang road to Douala:
no breakdown by vehicle type available.



ANNEX 9
Page 14
Maize      Beans
To:       Douala                             11,250       2,515
Other Littoral Province             5,300        -
Yaounde                             5,000         675
Other Center-South Province         2,900        -
North                               4,900-
29,350      2,890
No more recent study with actual measurement has been carried out 1/, but
indications are that annual deliveries from the west to urban markets have
increased rather than diminished since 1965.
Marketing Institutions
42.       Present foodcrop surpluses are handled entirely by the private
trade, which consists of a well-developed and hierarchised network of
Cameroonian collectors, brokers, middlemen, agents and wholesalers and a
small number of expatriates. One of these, Guyader at Foumbot, has been
successful in developing his own inputs and extension service for small-
holder vegetable growers and, after several years of preparation, now exports
at least one plane-load of graded vegetables per week to the markets of
Libreville, Gabon. While there is some way to go in achieving a satisfactory
standard of quality by growers, this operation points the way to possibilities
under the project of exploiting the high-priced markets of Douala and in
neighboring countries for increased vegetables production arising from the
Bottomlands Development component.
43.       The area is served by possibly one of the densest networks of
traditional markets in all of Africa: each of the one hundred or so Bamileke
chefferies has its own market, which generally takes place every four or
seven days. Markets in the main town of each department generally remain
I/   However, a study carried out by J.L. Dougmo for C.N.R.S. of Bordeaux
in 1974 (Production et Commercialisation des Denrees Alimentaires
a Destination des Villes dans la Province de l'Ouest au Cameroun)
provides a useful account of the structure of markets.



ANNEX 9
Page 15
open every day. Competition appears to be strong and, although prices
for some local as well as imported food commodities are nominally controlled,
prices for both are largely the result of supply and demand and individual
bargaining power. Few modern facilities, if any, are available at markets
and storage is often short. Seasonal price fluctuations tend to be marked
(often 100% in a six-month period) but few traders appear willing to tie
up scarce capital in constructing and filling new storage for foodcrops.
44.       Recently Cameroon has set up a number of organizations to either
influence or control marketing of agricultural products. The "Mission de
Developement des Cultures Vivrieres" (MIDEVIV) was set up to produce and sell
foodcrops, organize foodcrops marketing by setting up pilot shops or points of
sale, and organize producers cooperatives. Its previous activities have been
centered around Yaounde. Only recently it has expanded to the North and to
the West. MIDEVIV plans to start production of plantain suckers in the Nde
Department and potato seed production in Galim, but it is not yet known
whether it will have sufficient staff and finance to do so. While production
of plantain suckers would be a welcome complementary component to project
activities, potato seed multiplication under the project is proposed to be
undertaken by an agency already specialized in this field.
45.       MIDEVIV remains financially non viable since it buys at fixed prices
and sells below going market prices while incurring operating costs that are
above comparable rates for the private trade. The Profit and Loss Statement
of MIDEVIV for the year ending June 1975, showing a loss of CFAF 9.5 million
on sales of CFAF 33.5 million, confirms this. The loss is made up by FONADER.
Although MIDEVIV could, in principle, become an additional buyer of foodcrops
in the project area, thereby increasing competition, this cannot be recommended
as long as MIDEVIV's current operating methods are not changed. Strengthening
of MIDEVIV's activities is therefore not foreseen under the project.
46.       Office Commercial Camerounais (OCC).  This office was created
by decree in 1975 but is not yet officially set up. Its envisaged role is
broadly to organize trading channels and to stimulate trade by buying and
selling local as well as foreign products. A specific list of products to
be dealt with is yet to be worked out. Since its envisaged functions are
close to MIDEVIV's, it may well become a successor for some of its functions
or even merge with it.
47.       Service des Prix.  This service is supposed to fix or freeze prices
and margins according to costs via the departmental prefects. It seems to
have little influence on actual market forces. This is indicated by its
lack of controlling personnel and the fact that, in the West, this commission
met last in 1973.
48.       In the presence of a strongly developed private trade for both
domestic trade and exports, and due to the fact that present public sector
institutions contribute little to marketing efficiency, no intervention in



ANNEX 9
Page 16
marketing is foreseen by this project. Private trade is ready to cope with
any expected project related production increase in the West.
Prices
49.       General.  A composite index for retail food prices in Yaounde is
shown at Table 10, along with the general consumer price index for middle-
income Cameroonian families. (Unfortunately, similar statistics for Douala,
the largest town and the major outlet for food surpluses from the Western
Highlands, are not available). These indices appear to show that, first,
until 1973 food prices were increasing more rapidly than other items in the
index (in which food is weighted 34 percent); and, second, that food prices
in the capital have been rising at an increasing rate, at least until 1975,
namely by:
-    an average of 7% between 1969 and 1971;
-    an average of 11% between 1971 and 1973; and
-    an average of 15% between 1973 and 1975.
In 1976, the rate of increase moderated to 11.5 percent, despite a poor maize
harvest, although this has been reflected in the provisional figures for the
first six months of 1977, which show an increase of 21 percent on the cor-
responding period of 1976. However, it may have been that the rapid food
price rises experienced during the last three years were as much the result
of "imported" inflation as of a severe downturn in the domestic supply:
demand situation for foodstuffs.
50.       No aggregate index figures are available for prices at Bafoussam
(Western Province) but the indications (Table 11) are that prices have risen
at least as fast as at Yaounde: between 1971 and 1976 the annual increase
for all foodstuff was 12.7 percent in Yaounde, while at Bafoussam the follow-
ing items showed higher annual increase over the same period:
potatoes                    28% p.a.
maize flour                 21% p.a.
maize                       18% p.a.
onions                      18% p.a.
groundnuts                  16% p.a.
gari                        16% p.a.
bananas                     15% p.a.
beans                       15% p.a.
rice                        15% p.a.
cassava                     15% p.a.
beef                        13% p.a.



ANNEX 9
Page 17
While 1976 offered some hope that the rate of inflation of food prices had
abated, pre-harvest prices observed in the field in May 1977 1/ and the food
price indices for Yaounde all point to re-acceleration to over 15 percent in
the annual rate during 1977. Main contributing factors have been:
(a) the below-average maize harvests in 1976 and expected
in 1977;
(b) influence of very high prices (for maize, in particular)
over the Nigerian and Gabonese borders 2/; and
(c) the continuing repercussion of increased import prices
on the cost of living, leading to pressure for Government/
private sector salary increases (which farmers increasingly
feel should be reflected in their own cash incomes).
51.       Given the established nature of these last two factors it is hard to
imagine domestic food prices exerting any downward influence on the general
cost-of-living index in Cameroon during the next five years and an average
annual increase in foodcrop prices of at least eight percent is considered
as probable. The implications of continuing high rate of inflation of food-
crop prices on the relative terms of trade for coffee growers are shown
in Table 6. Clearly, such a change in relative prices will in the long-run
call for measures to sustain the profitability of producing export crops such
as coffee, as well as a shift in resources towards increased food production.
52.       Farmgate prices for foodcrops, for the purpose of evaluating alter-
native farm budgets, have been estimated on the basis of actual 1977 market
prices in the Western Province, making some allowance for the above-average
rise in maize prices. Farmgate values are arrived at by subtracting estimated
margins for marketing, transport and waste of 35-40 percent for grains and
tubers, and an average of 50 percent for fresh fruits and vegetables (Table
12). Farmgate prices in the farm budgets are projected to stay constant in
terms of 1977 prices, i.e. to increase in line with general inflation of
domestic prices. The exception is maize, where the impact of increased
production from the project and from the proposed large-scale (eventually
12,000 ha) mechanized maize scheme in the Foumban area (Bamoun) is expected to
exert downward pressure on prices and a 15 percent fall in the farmgate price
(from CFAF/kg 35 to 30) is assumed from 1983.
1/   Maize prices of up to CFAF100/kg were common on retail markets.
2/   In July 1977, maize has been reported as selling for Naira 42 per
bag (equivalent US$680 per ton, at official exchange rate) in the
middle belt of Nigeria.



ANNEX 9
Page 18
53.       For purposes of economic evaluation border prices have been cal-
culated for those foodcrops which enter significantly into world trade, viz
maize, rice and groundnuts. These calculations are shown at Tables 13, 14
and 15, respectively. For maize and rice the calculations are based on
import-substitution on the Douala market: in both cases current world
prices are lower than actual market prices in Cameroon, but these are
projected to be overtaken by the rising trend of world cereal prices by
1980. For groundnuts the border price calculation is based on export to
Northern Europe: however since official exports of groundnuts from Cameroon
are no longer significant and local market prices both in Cameroon and
neighbouring Nigeria are much higher than projected for exports, the local
market price for groundnuts (CFAF 90/kg, in PY 0) is taken as the economic
value. In any case the confectionery groundnut variety grown in the West
commands a premium on local markets over the higher oil-content nuts grown
in the North for export.
Market Prospects for Foodcrops
54.       Maize.  Consumer prices of maize in the Western Province have in-
creased by 18% p.a. over the last 6 years from 1971 to 1976 (see Table 11).
This is higher than the average increase for competing foodcrops, about 13%,
during that period and has taken place in spite of an estimated production
increase of 72% during the same period. However, since it is unlikely that
demand has grown in the same proportion, production estimates are believed to
be exaggerated. Because of unavailability of maize at sufficiently low
prices, a number of pig and industry farmers requiring purchased feed had to
discontinue operations. The local brewery equally had to abandon its efforts
to buy local maize in 1975 and 1976 because of inadequate supplies at prices
below import-parity (about CFAF/kg 60).
55.       Continued demand growth for human consumption and by breweries, and
limited land availability for expansion of maize production in two thirds of
the project area, will therefore lead to continuing high maize prices during
the first years of the project. Prices are expected to only level off as a
result of increased production resulting from the adoption of improved maize
input packages under the project. Expansion of production as a result of high
prices and the effect of other projects in the program area is expected to
gradually lower maize prices after 3 to 4 years; a fall of CFAF/kg 5 in the
average producer price (15%) is assumed from 1983.
Other Foodcrops. Prices of most staples have increased by an
average of 13% p.a. in the 5 years 1972-76. This increase has accelerated
from 10 - 11% during the first years to 15% in 1975. It indicates that
the main consumption centers, Yaounde and Douala, growing at an annual
rate of 7 - 8%, are not yet adequately supplied; insufficient production
potential in their hinterlands and the poor state of repair of the roads
leading to the main foodcrop production centers of the West have con-
tributed to this. While the road to Douala is expected to be rebuilt
within the next three years, transport difficulties to Yaounde will remain,



ANNEX 9
Page 19
as only part of the road is scheduled for upgrading. Another contributing
factor for high foodcrop prices has been the rising demand in neighbouring
Gabon, absorbing increasing quantities of foodcrops from the West.
56.       The main competing area for the supply of foodcrops to Douala is the
Littoral province with rich volcanic soils in the Mungo department, lying
closer to Douala than the Western Highlands. However, no special projects
are going on in this area and it is unlikely that supply will increase very
sharply. Moreover, this area has rapidly growing urban consumption centers
(Nkongsamba) of its own, absorbing their share of an increased production.
57.       Seasonal supply bottlenecks in the main consumption centers and
continued high prices are therefore expected to remain for some time. As
the project will have only a moderate impact on production over the early
years, no substantial price decreases for foodcrops are expected other
than for maize.
58.       Vegetable.  The market for vegetables is mostly an export market,
although local urban consumption is starting to pick up, especially of
tomatoes and potatoes. Exports have rapidly increased in recent years,
mainly due to the actions of one French exporter. Of his annual vegetable
exports, about 2,000 tons per year, about 45% go to Gabon, 25% to Chad,
and 15% each to CAE and Congo. He hopes to increase vegetable exports
from Western Cameroon to 5,000 tons annually by including exports to Europe
and Nigeria.
59.       The constraint to further vegetable export growth is not market
potential but possibilities to increase production. Since intensive vegetable
cultivation is a new production technique in the area, it demands considerable
extension efforts to produce vegetables in sufficient quality. Although
the project will make a contribution to both intensified extension and opening
up of new bottomlands for increased vegetable cultivation, the resulting
production increases are not expected to make a significant impact on prices.
60.       Among the vegetables produced, potatoes, for which the project makes
a special seed production effort, and tomatoes figure prominently. There are
plans for the establishment of a tomato factory near Foumbot, but present high
export prices may delay the project. The importance of other vegetables is
expected in the following order of priority: green beans, carrots, salads
and leeks.
61.       Fruit Trees.  Only mangoes and avocadoes play a role in both con-
sumption and exports. The potential for other fruits is not known. Of both
mangoes and avocadoes, the Western Highlands can produce superior qualities
owing to climatic conditions and high altitudes. While mangoes find a good
local market, avocadoes are exported in increasing quantities to neighboring
countries. They also have considerable potential for pig fattening.



CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UCCAO: Arabica Production by Cooperative 1969-77 (tons)
av.      av.                                                         av.
1961-67  1968-72      1973      1974     1975     1976      19773/  1973-77
CAPLAME (Dschang)-/             3,752    6,195      8,373    6,391    6,567    4,154    3,600         5,817
CPCAM (Mbouda)                  1,406    3,067      4,657    3,432    4,423    3,325    2,800         3,727
CPCAB (Bafoussam)               1,657    3,091      3,726    3,292    3,305    3,281    1,800         3,080
CPBCA (Foumbot)                 1,578    3,692      5,531    2,733    5,325    3,079    2,400         3,814
SCAPCAN (Bangangte) X               2/     314         341      239      301       234      200         263
COOPLACAHN (Bafang) J
UCCAO  Total 4/                 8,392   16,360     22,628   16,087   19,921   14,072   10,800        16,701
of which: unwashed arabica        662    1,092      1,981    1,614    1,590    1,194        590       1,394
(%)                   (7.9)    (6.7)       (8.8)   (10.0)    (8.0)    (8.5)    (5.5)        (8.3)
1/ Until 1975 comprised two separate co-ops. (CAPBCA and COOPCOLV) which amalgamated.
2/ Up to 1967 included with CPCAB.
3/ Mission forecasts, based on information from cooperatives and UCCAO.
4/ UCCAO Annual Report 1976 gives totals of only 22,442 tons for 1973 and 15,452 tons for 1974.
Sources:  1961-73 F. Cavanagh (broker), given in SATEC report, 1975;                                                & t
1974-76 UCCAO, Bafoussam.



Annex 9
Table 2
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UCCAO: Proaucer, F.O.B. and World Market Prices (1961-1977)
Producer
UCCAO -          UCCAO -         as % of      Guatemala Pr. Wshd.  Exchange
Years      Total Producer  Av. Sale         Av. Sale    Spot New York 3/        Rate
Price  1/        Price (FOB) 2/ Price 6/    (c/lb)   (CFAF/kg)   CFAF/US$
---------(CFAF/kg)-----------
1961                          197.5                        37.55      204       246.85
1962          153 (13)        202               68         35.83      195
1963         150 (26)         204.5             66         35.40      193
1964         162 (31)         224.5             65         47.16      257
1965         194 (49)         240.5             73         45.51      248
1966         187 (42)         229               73         42.25      230
1967         176 (21)         214               74         39.22      213
1968         175 (25)         210               75         39.42      215
1969         168 (18)         218               69         40.09      218       246.85
1970         202 (47)-        276               66         51.87      318       277.7
1971         177 (22)         263               61         45.45      278       277.7
1972         165 (10)         260               57         50.03      282       255.8
1973         175 (20)         291               54         62.02      315       230.2
1974         200 (30)         308               78         66.15      351       240.5
1975         190 (20)         335               51         65.27      324       225
1976         245 (60)         580               38        143.17      773       245
1977         325(100)        1029               28        280.00 5/ 15.13       245
1/   Paid for parchment coffee in season ending in year shown;
source UCCAO and CPCAB, Bafoussam; prices include 1st and 2nd payments
to growers plus end-season bonus, which in 1970, 1971 and 1975 was paid
at different rates in some of the other cooperatives; 1977 bonus is
forecast. (Bonus element shown in brackets).
2/   For washed arabica only, FOB Douala.
37   iverages tor calendar vears-
4/   UCCAO forecast (July 1977).
5/   WB price forecast  (May 1977), in constant 177 terms.
&/   Taking 90 percent of the nominal price as the effective  average price paid
to producers, which is based on the percentage of "full grain beans.



CAMEROOI                                                                               ANNEX 9
Table 3
hE8TERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DWE1OIPNT PROJECT
ANALYSIS OF COSTS PRE KG COFFEE FOR PRNIdPAL UCC DO OPERATIVES
(based on coop. aceounts for 1976 season)
ooperative                                (Expenditure   CFAF   Million)                                                     (Average      CFAF|Rs.
Poate                                           / Bafouseaa    Mbouda   lschang    Foumbot    Total                 Bafoussan    Mbouda    Dechang    Founbot    Average
Tonnage produit:        3281.32       3336.90   4153.44    3078.87    13,850.53
1. Achat cafe  2/                                   547.89       554.37    631.34       496.72      2,230.32            166.97        166.13    152.00       161.33      161.03
2. Collecte                                          15.72         34.80     45.88       25.98        122.38              4.79          10.43     11.05        8.44        8.84
3. Usinate                                           20.41         36.88     40.72       30.11        128.12               6.21         11.05      9.80        9.78        9.25
4. Triste  .(15.77)                                                (9.03)   (24.78)-   (20.40)         69.98              (4.80)        (2.71)    (5.97)       (6.63)      5.05
-    r osonetnl                                     711               4/ 987 J/   17.52                                2.17                     2.46        5.69
- sunine electronique                         8.66          9.03      14.81 -     p2.88 -                          2.64          2.71       3.57         .94
5. Conditionnement Enesaha*e                          9.88          5.77      3.74       13.22         32.61               3.01          1.73      0.90        (4.29)       2.35
6. Expedition at Ventee                            (493.15)3/   (498.33)  (674.57)   (508.49)   (2,174.54)              (150.29)      (149.34   (162.41)   (165.15)   (157.00) -/
-  Emballagas consomnes                           14.54         15.44     19.09       14.16 Q/      63.23              4.43          4.63       4.60        4.60        4.57
-  transport surventes                            16.75         16.03     19.30    )             )                     5.10          4.80       4.65                    5.22
-  transit SOCoPAo -                              19.65         14.32     17.54    ) 90.48      ) 323.16               5.99          4.29       4.22       29.39        5.16
-  freta maritimes                                40.01        36.26      52.82    )             )                    12.19         10.89      12.72                   12.95
-commission UCCAO                               18.01         19.62    '4AB                                                         5.5.49    10.25
courtage CAVAAG                                11.34        12.44    43.5             35         4 46                3                     10.25 3     11.44        6:6
-  impota et taxea                              339.94        276.25    43. 89    1356.27         1473.80            103:60         82.79-   104.47    ?115.71         86.41
- Caese de Stabilisation                                       67.45        .                                      /                20.21                              20.00
mort at provis.                                  32.16        23.76      46.16       10.59        112.67              9.80          7.12    - 11.11        3.44        8.13
- *utren                                            .75        16.76      43.19        1.76         62.46                .23         5.02      10.40          .57       4.51
7. Frais financiers                                  20.06         24.83     41.67       38.19        124.75              6.11           7.44     10.03        12.40       9.01
8. Aduinistration                                    25.08        31.97      31.69       21.96        110.70              7.64           9.58       7.63        7.13        7.99
9. Differences de chann                              63.49          -         -           -            63.49             19.35                                             4.58
TOTAL                                           1211.45      1195.99   1494.37    1155.07         5056.88            369.20        358.41    359.79       376.45      365.10
1 Amortiaation and provisions included In each activity head.                                                                 61  may include szm  materials for Conditionnement
et Ensachage.
2/ Correeponds to am of lst and 2nd payments vochrs iasued for both washed and dry parcmant coffee,
which were paid on basis of nominal producer price of CrAw  185 and 135 per kg. respea tiw1ly; does not                    7/  charged CFAF 10.03 on. In UCCAO account, based on
include ristourne.                                                                                                             allocation of fixed costs and actual utilization.
3/ Reduced proportionately by * ount relating to sales of 1975 stocks.                                                        S/  re-allocation from Condit. et Enseachage, baaed on
estimate of ClAF 4.60 per 4g.
4/ Labour for sorting not separately shown
9/  detailed breakdown party estimated, based on detailed
5/ from UCCAO 1976 *ccount.                                                                                                       allocation where shown by one or  more cooperitive.



'i       P ' :    CE   NIIRRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                     Wh. r
AIJbICA C'JGE. _ PRICE S'RUCrURE AND PORECAITS
(1976-77 actual., 1978-85 projections In constaot 1977 S teos)
1976        1977        197R         1979        1980        1981         1902        1983        1984         1985
(PYO)       (FY         (PY2)       (PY3)         (PY4)
Guatenslal. enlec wshed
(spot New York (US c/lb))                       117.5       280.0        189.8       149.0      1U4.7        116.2        107.6        99.1         90.5        82.0
EqiVoalent CFAF/kg.            -                635        1513         1025         805         674          628         581         535          489         W43
1es..  qusllty dis o..t           -                 58          151         103           72          5           44          85           27          24          22
La _drdV.1-c C-m.roon raiboa                       577        1067          922         733          620         584          5A6         508         465         421
1...: .ta freight' handliog    5'                   22           22          22          22           22          22          22           22          22          22
i  .......          .2'                             8            7           6           3           4            4           4           3            3
weight loss in trs..        6/it               4           8            7           5            5           4           4           4            3           3
VaLin. F01 cDi-2"                                  547         1029         886          700         586         334          516         478         437          393
less.  bro-k-age chrges                              4 4          7           6            4           4           3            3           3           3            3
CAIS1IA)iOOss               -                 20          81          100)                                                                                     5
-opori   o    o             0/                76         190         235) 343   295           233          196        15          172          159         146)
,,ticr cisC. tOtOs 0       yj1 t                           8            8)
5           6                                                                                                  6
UICCAO hhndling chr9e    1/                    6          10            9           7           6            6           5           5            4           4
trannpo. t to Ooual.       13/                 5           5                                                                                                  5
psohing                    14/                 7           8                                                                                                  8
korting 9 ging ng         1J/                  5           6                                                                                                  6
pr-cn -siog                1                   9          10                                                                                                 10
pri-ry narketing                               9          12           10
f,inance charges                               9           9                                                                                                  9
-oop. ediniltration          191               9          1"'          6                                                                                      6
snortiSrtios I pronisions    1                 8          10           6                                                                                      6
other coop-   epeses          -                5           5                                                                                                  5
Sob-toal ( osts 1 t ..)                         184         377          429         377          314         276         264          251         237         224
5tt V-lue  (fi.anc is)           21/               363          652         457         323          274         278         252          227         200          169
(e-ononit)           -                 467         931         800          618         507         474          437         399          359         315
Goaraoceed producer prie          22            185         225          225         225          225         210         195          185         170         160
Bo"us (ristoorne) proJected        -             60         100           70          45          20           20          15           15          15          15
Total producer price                  24/          245          325         295         270          245         230          210         200         185          175
Effective cost per kg. clean coffee-               220          286         260         238          216         202          185         176         163          154
- .e.  .osu.ed to rnsa   at sa-   proportion if pre eding
ynr's POO  value as in 1978 (33.3 percent).
I    iorld Bonk prie. projections. Nay 1977, in constant 1977 ter   (1977-85);                                                /jj   -ily storage ad handling by  OCOPAD; my be reduced .,th
1976 price is actual -eighted a-a-age  for period corresponding to UCCAC sales                                                  conetructinor additieosl UCCAO storage at Bafouss.         .nd/sr Doal.
2/  at US S1.00       CFAF 245.                                                                                               I/  basis I percent sles v-lue.
3/  for1976, calcul-td  -nerege di-coont (App. 1); 1977 app-rent discont                                                      11/  basis 1976 acounts, seer 240 kb  *qual to CFA  20/t/e; so increae
higherdue to tieing of sei; 1970-83 diso-unt projected to fell fror  10                                                         eneted for 1977.
ao 5 percent as rseult of quality ioprove_nnt nesurne.
14/  inciodee bags used foe priory n-rkeiing end for thipolnt.
4/  actual _nout  bhosn in UCCA0 .cconto (verage CFAF 12.95 per kg.) applies only
to p-rt t-enags; estioets of CFAP/4g. 22 based ..   2o itsb *llovence 1976/77                                             15/  n e reduetion posible vith full .ss of additional sorting oechinoo
seaion to robustsanQporters (N. European deistiP a tiOns)
t/  pe-sibility of al_i reduction in operating costs oith higher
_/  baei. 0.75 p rcent CIP value (Caintab allona..).                                                                                throughpt,  ffst by likely bigher onertidation  h,ars
.qsi4-st in r.s0eed.
_/ basin 0.73 percent pet seight an ship.eent (Caisrab allovance).
0tL    largely v-rihbl. -osts (labour and trieport). ti  b. reducd nitb
7/  charged at 0.63 percent sles v-lue                                                                                              hbigher   eons-  nd inproved oeansonet.
8/  raised to 100 fron June 1977.                                                                                              08/  equivlant to appron. 7  -nthe internet at 67 on basic predkc               e pi
and cooP. opartisg costs.
9/  basis 40 percent of valour neccurielof 190, raised to 427. nf Vi 560 fron June 1977.                                            e d   to p  op r t.  .1ot
10/ es.sistiog of:  Tiabres sot Connaisi nt                      167
Frasi  de transit                        1950                                                            0   varioeus it-  (such as P & T).oot fully detiied in ecconats.
Te portuir.e *con-g-                      904
?ae de plonhage                            85                                                           21/  inelude  tcanes (a-rkd *)
PSage                                      35
H           donoraire  dsgree en Dou-nes  350                                                           22/  paid on basin of  bos.  grains" in n-pl., eragig 90 perosnt of  lean
T:ne dnab.rq-eot                          675                                                                coffee (eofs eirchand) ,hich itelIf i  about 80 poreant of p e..beet
Tan   pifie                              3C0                                                                  ref tef   eetght in case of .ahed arebice end 50 peccant of dry cherry
T-    deonditinnnint (0.057 VM)    Boo                                                                       vight (coqun) in cae of dried coffe.
T-e phyt_ionitaire                         50
8016  (per too)                                               23/  total poise  projeet.d to fell by 107 p..-  in re.I teros
(.os.t.nt CFAF/kg 325 in current t-r_).
24/  converted on basis of 90 percent  b-ns grains and *llowing for  bonif ic-
tion  st 2 per ent



CAMEROON
WEITIRN IIGBUANfDS MJRAL DEVEWflIEIT PROJECT
co= PICE SRc   (CRU TMW.t-
(CFAF/kR clean coffee)                                     1977       1978                  1980       1981      1982      1983      1984       1985       1986
(actual)     RY O       PY I       PY 2       PY 3     PY 4
Guatemalan. prime washed       1/
(spot New York, US c/lb) -                              280.0      205.0      173.0      155.0      152.6    150.2    147.8    145.4         143.0      143.0
Equivalent CFAF/kg         2/                               1513       1130        954       854        841       828       815       802        788        788
less: quality discount         3/                                      113         86         68         59        50        41        40         39         39
Landed Value Cameroon arabica                               1067     1,017        868        786        782       778       724       762        749         749
4/
less: sea freight + handling                                 22         24         25         27         29        31        33        35         38         40
insurance                                              16         15         13         12         12       12         12        11         11         11
weight loss in transit -
Value FOB Douala                                            I029       978        830        747        741       735       729       716        700        698
1/ World Bank price forecasts, May 1977                               (a) Annual inflation of all local costs by 10 per cent
2/ 1977 at CFAF 245 - US $ 1, from 1978 at 250
3/ falling from 10 to 5% during project.  Apparent high                                                                                                          @ 1
discount for 1977 is attributable to timing of forward sales.
4/ projected to increase at 7 percent p.a.
5/ based on 0.75 percent of CIF value



ANNEX 9
CAMEROON                                    Table
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Trade: Arabica and Foodcrops
Total                                  Arabic      Terms of
Producer       Food                    Price       Trade -
Price, Arab-  Price         Annual    Deflated   Coffee:
Year               ica Coffee    Index          Increase  by F.P.I.  Foodcrops
(CFAF/kg)      (1968=100)  (%)         (CFAF/kg)  (1968=100)
1968                   175            100           -         175         100
1969                   168            101          1.0        166          95
1970                    202           109          7.9        185         106
1971                   177            116          6.4        153          87
1972                   165            130.3       12.3        127          72
1973                   175            142.1        9.1        123          70
1974                   200            162.2       14.1        123          70
1975                   190            188.3       16.1        101          58
1976                   245            209.8       11.4        117          67
(1976 I-vI)                          207.7
(1977 I-VI)                          252.1
1977                   -325           254.6*    (21.4)        128          73
* (provisional forecast based on first 6 months)
Projected (1) - basis constant producer price CFAF/kg 325'1/
1980                    325       (a) 397                      82          47
(b) 321                     101          58
1985                    325      (a) 835                       39          22
(b) 471                      69          39
Pro.iected (2) - basis prolected net economic value clean cqffe2/
1980                    626      (a) 397                      158          90
(b) 321                     195         111
1985                    514      (a) 835                       62          35
(b) 471                     109          62
(a) food prices increasing 16% p.c. (  average 1973-77)
(b) food prices increasing 8% p.c.
1/ See Table 6.
2/ See Table 7.



ANNEX 9
CAMEROON                                 Table 7
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs: Electronic Sorting Machines
1979 (PY 1)
(US$'000)   (CFAF mn)
10 bichromatic sorting- machines
at US$11,825 (FOB)                                 118.25        28.97
2 UV sorting machines
at US$13,775 (FOB)                                   27.55        6.75
Spares at 10 percent                                    15.00         3.68
Sub-total (FOB cost)                      160.80        39.40
Freight and insurance (est. 10%)                        16.00         3.92
Installation costs (estimate)                           20.00         4.90
Supervision (est. 5%)                                   10.00         2.45
Total costs                                            206.80        50.67
Physical Contingencies (10%)                            20.68         5.07
Expected Price Increases (24%)                          54.6o       13.38
Total Expected Costs                                   282.08       69.12



CAMEROON
WESTERN HIFTHLANTS RIRAL DWVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Benefits of Coffee Quality Improvement Measures
PY 1   PY 2   PY 3   PY 4   PY 5   PY 6   PY 7   PY 8   PY 9
No.      Unit cost    1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
(CFAF)      -------------------------(CFAF mn)--------------------------
Additional depulpers                   1000/yr    60.000           60     60      60      60     60      60     60      60      60
Pulperies                                        (250.000)1/  (11) 3 (77)19 (93)23 (77)19        -       -      -       -       -
Pulperies maintenance                   (10%)    (25.000)          -     0.3    2.2    4.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5
Sorting machinesL2/                    (10+ 2) (Table 11)        50.7     -       -      -       -       -    50.7      -       -
Machine servicing3-                                                -     1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0        -      1.0    1.0
Proportion of extension service4/                                  10     20      40     60      60      60     60      60      60
Pest control-5/                                                    -      26      44      62     80      98    116    134    153
Total Costs                                                    123.7  126.3  170.2  206.5  207.5  225.5  293.2  261.5  280.5
Benefits-/                                (%)(CFAF/kg)        (1)8.05283.443k8.84(423.24(526.74554.445( 2.145'2.14522.15
(tonnage)          17.000 19.000 21.000 23.000 23.750 24.500 25.250 26.000 26.000
(value CFAF mn)        136.8  256.1  395.6  534.5  635.3  599.0  559.3  575.9  575.9
1/ estimated at 1/3 of total cost of new spring collection scheme with concrete tank (CFAF 765.000).
2/ incl. installation and spares (10 percent); no operating cost savings allowed for.
3/ estimate based on 6-monthly visit by engineer from Ivory Coast.
4/ rough estimation based on assumption that 1/3 of time would be spent on coffee quality-related extension.
5/ based on assumption that 1/3 of incremental pesticide cost (CFAF 12.000/ha) results in improved quality (and
2/3 in increased yields).
6/ based on gradual reduction in quality discount from 10 to 5 percent over 5 years.
August 1, 1977
C Q



ANNEX 9
Table 9
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketable Surplus of Food in Western Province
Gross           Net        Est.      Total      Estimated
Production    Availability   Cons'n   Human           Net
1/             2/   per Head3/ Cons'n       Surplus
('000 t)      ('000 t)    (kg/cap.)  ('000 t)  ('000 t)   (%)
Maize                    200         160  (80%)       100        95         65      (41)
Groundnuts                38          25  (65%)        20        19           6     (24)
Beans etc.                40          26  (65%)        20        19           7     (27)
Rootcrops 4/             420         273  (65%)       200       190         83      (30)
Bananas/Plantains        200         130  (65%)       100        95         35      (27)
Fruits/Vegetables -       83          42  (50%)        20        19         23      (55)
981        656              460       437         219      (33)
1/  Mission estimates based on 1972/73 Agricultural Census and other Central
and Provincial Government data
2/  Allowing for estimated seed retention, shelling and storage and losses
(animal feed is normally out of stocks spoilt in storage).
3/  Total population 950.000.
4/  Excluding Irish potatoes, includes macabo, taro, yam, cassava and sweet potatoes
5/  Including both African and introduced fruits and vegetables
6/ Equivalent to approximately 1,885 cal./day (cereals 990, legumes 110,
rootcrops 550, banana/plantain 205, fruits/vegetables 30).



ANNEX 9
Table 10
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Food Price and Cost of Living Indices in Yaound.6 1968-77
General        Annual         Food         Annual
Consumer       Increase       Price        Increase
Price Index      (%)          Index        Food Prices (%)
(Weight)                  100.0                        33,6
Year
1968                      100             .           100
1969                      107            7.0          101             1.0
1970                      110            2.8          109             7.9
1971                      114            3.6          116             6.4
1972                      120.2          5.4          130.3          12.3
1973                      132.7         10.4          142.1           9.1
1974                      155.5         17.2          162.2          14.1
1975                      176.6         13.6          188.3          16.1
1976                      194.2         10.0          209.8          11.4
1976 Jan-June             190.9                       207.7
1977 Jan-June 1/          216.1         13.2          252.1          21.4
1/ Provisional
Source: Bulletins Mensuels de Statistique,
Ministry of Economy and Plan, Yaounde.



ANNEX 9
Table 11
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consumer Prices for Foodstuffs in Bafoussam, 1971 - 77
(CFAF/kg)
Crop                             Y ea r l. y   A ve r ag e   P r i c e            Av.Annual
1971    1972    1973    L9741-k  1975    19762/  19773/   Increase % 4
A. Staples
Maize                  19.5    29.5    32        27      38      45       60          18.1
Rice                   57       56.5    89     116      147     115      125          15.3
Maize flour            29       36      38       37      47      60       80          16.5
Plantain               10      10       12.5    12       12.5    13       15           6.2
Macabo                 11.5    15       16      15       20       23      27          13.0
Ydam/Taro              23      27.5    29       28       33      35       40           8.1
Cassava                 6.5     7       10       8       11      15       15          14.7
Gari                   31      46       54      61       69      81       90          16.3
White Beans            50      61       58.5    65-5    75.5   102       120         15.0
B. Fruit and Vegetables
Tomatoes               57      58       72.5    77.5    77.5    80        90           7.4
Cassava leaves         10      12       12      15       19      18.5                13.4
Bananas                 8.5     9       11.5    11.5    15       17.5    20           14.9
Avocado                15      15       20.5    22.5    21        34                  14.8
Oranges                29.5    41.5    61       54       51      84                   16.4
Mangoes                58      48.5    70       43.5    53.5    45
Potatoes                                        43               74      100          28.0
Onions (local)                                  99              150      170          18.4
C. Fats and Oils
Groundnuts (shelled)  75      108.5   114      117.5   164      198      200         16.1
Palm oil               79.5    82       88.5   123      134     140      150         12.1
Cottonseed oil        178.5   170.5   194      266      388     454      500         20.5
D. Meat, Fish
Beef, with bones      144     144      150     181      214.5   254      300         13.2
Pork, with fat        200     199      204     193      287     300      350         10.1
Chicken, live         261     297.5   336      391      411.5   475      575         12.5
Fish, fresh           303     149.5   150      166      213     223      240         11.5
Egg (piece)            13      13       15      16       18      25       25         12.3
1/  only two quarters (January-June) available.
2/ only two quarters (July-December) available.
3/ mission estimates based on observation of mid-year market prices and information
supplied by Provincial services.
(Note that 1976 and 1977 were considered below-average crop years, particularly
for maize.)
4/  trends based on semi-log regression.
Source: Unpublished records of the provincial statistical office in Bafoussam.



ANNEX 9
Table 1I
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farmgate Prices for Fooderops
(based on local market prices)
Retail Market    Estimated Margins 2/
Price  1/        and Losses                Value
(percent)  (value)        Farmgate 3/
---------- (CFAF/kg) -------------------------
Maize                   60           4o          25             35  7/
Rice, paddy            125  4/       40          35             45
Beans                  120           30          35             85
Groundnuts,in shell   200  5/        35          45             90
Cassava                 15           35           5             10
Yam                     4o           35          15             25
Macabo (Cocoyam)        27           35           9             18
Taro                    4o           35          15             25
Banana plantain         15           35           5             10
Sweet banana            20           35           7             13
Potatoes, Irish         75           50          40             35
Tomatoes                90           50          45             45
Onions, garlic         170           50          85             85
Carrots                120           50          60             60
Salads                 150           65         100             50
Cabbage                 50           4o          20             30
.Leeks                  200           50         100            100
Melon seed (egusi)    500  6/        35          80            160
Bambarra (voandzou)   250            35          gO            160
Aubergines             100           50          50             50
Oranges                 75           50          4o             35
1/  basis normal year, 1977 prices
2/ including primary marketing, transport, wholesale/retail margin and
storage losses
3/  after allowance for on-farm storage losses
4/  equivalent 87.5 for paddy (at 70 percent extraction)
5/ equivalent 135 in shell
6/  equivalent price 240 undecorticated
7/ expected to fall to 30 after PY5



CAMEROON                                  ANNEX 9
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                  Table 13
Economic Farmgate yalue - Maize (1977 constant terms)
1977        1978         1979        1980-85
(Import Substitution) *                                        US$/t    ----------
US No. 2 yellow, FOB Gulf ports  1/          115.0        115.7        120.6        129.0
Ocean freight & insurance  2/                 25.0         25.0         25.0         25.0
Value CIF Douala                             140.0        140.7        145.6       154.0
-------------   CFAF/t
Value CIF Douala                              34.3         34.5         35.7        37.7
Port charges & handling  3/                    8.0          8.0          8.0         8.0
Landed cost, in-store Douala                  42.3i        42.5         43.7        45.7
Transport project - Douala  4/                 4.0          4.0          4.0         4.0
Primary marketing  5/                          6.0          6.0          6.0         6.0
Gross value                                   32.3         32.5         33.7        35.7
Allowance for storage losses  6/               1.5          1.5          1.6          1.7
Economic farmgate price                       30.8         31.0         32.1        34.0
Rounded to:                              31           31           32          34
*    Basis Douala market.
1/   Basis IBRD commodity price forecasts, May 1977.
2/   Basis bulk charter tonnage, minimum 10,000 tons.
3/   Includes cost of bagging off in ship's hold; net of taxes.
4/   Basis average 250 kIn; net of taxes.
5/   Estimate includes cost of assembly, bags and temporary storage.
6/   With improved on-farm storage and drying, estimated at 5 percent of hartested
weight.



ANNEX 9
Table 14
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Farmgate Value - Rice (1977 constant terms)
1977        1978         1979        1980-85
(Import Substitution)*                              ----------  US$/t -----------------
Thai milled 25% broken, FOB Bangkok  l/    189            214          241.5       274
Ocean freight & insurance  2/                  50          50           50          50
Value CIF Douala                              239          264         291.5       324
---------------- CFAF/kg  -----------------
Value CIF Douala                               58.6         64.7        71.4        7%.4
Port charges and handling  3/                   4.0          4.0         4.0         4.0
Landed cost, in-store Douala                   62.6         68.7        75.4        83.4
Importer's margin  4/                           6.3         6.9          7.5         8.3
Value wholesale, Douala                        68.9         75.6        82.9        91.7
Road transport protect - Douala  5/             4.0          4.0          4.0        4.0
Rice ex-mill                                   64.9         71.6        78.9        87.7
Value paddy equivalent   6/                    44.1         48.7        53.7        59.6
Milling costs  7/                               8.5          8.5          8.5        8.5
Collection costs  8/                            1.5          1.5         1.5         1.5
Economic farmgate price paddy                  34.1        38.7         43.7        49.6
Rounded to:                              34           39           44          50
* Basis Douala market.
1/ Basis IBRD Commodity Price Forecasts, May 1977.
2/ Based on current quotations.
3/ CFAF 5,000/t, of which estimated 20 percent taxes.
7/ Composed of 2 percent handling costs and 8 percent permitted margin.
5/ Basis 250 km average distance at CFAF 20 per t/km, loss 20% taxes.
6/ Assuming 68 percent recovery rate white rice.
7/ Based on private custom milling charges plus cost of bags.
8/ Estimate.



ANNEX 9
Table 15
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Export Price for Groundnuts
(1977 constant terms)
1977       1979        1980       1985
Value CIF Europe (US$/t)          515.0       401.4      378.1       459.0
Freight + insurance                45.0        45.0 o45.0             45.0
Value FOB Douala                  470.0       356.4      333.1       414.0
Equivalent CFAF/kg                115          87         82         101
Port and handling charges           4           4          4           4
Transport to Douala  2/             4           4          4           4
Primary marketing  3/               6           6           6          6
Gross value, farmgate             101          73         68          87
Allowance for storage and
shelling losses  4/              9           7         66           8
Net value farmgate                 92          66         62          79
1/  IBRD Commodity Price Forecasts, May 1977, for Nigerian groundnuts
Net of estimated taxes
Including cost of bags
4/  Estimated at 10 percent of harvested yield



ANNEX 9
APPENDIX 1
Page 1
CALCULATION OF QUALITY DISCOUNT ON 1976 SALES
1.        Sales March 1976:
9000 tons (approx.), including 3542 tons 1975 stock; at average
price FOB CFAF 450 per kg.
Guatemala prime washed sold for average price March 1976 US c/lb.
101.83, equivalent to CFAF/kg 550, spot New York.
(Columbian MAMS during same month averaged 108.20 c/lb. or equivalent
585 CFAF/ kg., premium over Guateaala of 6.37 c/lb. or 6.25 percent.)
Allowing estimated CFAF/kg. 22 (US $90/ton) for ocean freight, 0.75%
FOB value marine insurance and 0.75% provision for loss of weight
during shipment, quality discount on sales against G-uatemalan prime
washed would have been:         (CFAF/kg.)
CIF value Guatemalan        550
-  FOB value Cameroon           450
-  Ocean freight                22
-  Insurance (0.75%)             3.375
-  Weight loss (0.375%)          3.375
Quality discount             71.25  (13.0%)
2.        Sales April - June 1976:
Virtually all remaining coffee (7646 tons) was sold during this quarter,
at average price of CFAF 660 per kg., to give overall average price
for 1976 sales (including 1975 stocks) of CFAF 547.
Average price 2nd quarter 1976 for Guatemalan prime washed = 135.80 c/lb.
equivalent         CFAF/kg.
(Colombia MAMS, same period, = 156.32 c/lb.,
equivalent      844 CFAF/kg.)
Using same assumptions as before, average discount for Cameroon arabica
may be estimated as follows:    (CFAF/kg.)
CIF value Guatemalan        734
-  FOB value Cameroon          660
-  Ocean freight                22
-  Insurance (0.75%)             4.95
- Weight loss (0.75%)            4.95
Quality discount             42.10  (5.75%)



Page 2
3.        Weighted Average, Total 1976 Sales:  (CFAF/kg)
Average value Guatemalan, spot       635
-  FOB realized value, Cameroon         547
-  Ocean freight and handling            22
-  Insurance (0.75%)                      4.1
-  Weight loss (o.75%)                    4.1
57.8 (9.1%)
4.        Total Sales Value Foregone
On basis of estimated average quality discount on Guatemala prime
washed arabica of CFAF 58 per kg (US c/lb 10.7), total loss of
value on 1976 sales would have been:
CFAF 58,000 x 16,646 tons = CFAF 965.5 mn.
= uS $   3.94 mn.



u.C.c.>i.O.              I'F01Ed['ATiCBN SPEC1FLQUE
B.P. 1 002                DPLCT .TClC              ELEDL.-.            Appendix 2
BILFOUSSIn          PERIODE DU 1 - 01 - AU yi - 12 - 1976
SOIT :
Charges variables          *6 097 453
Charges fixes              38 946 148
TOTA1L           45 043 601
Tonnage     Tonnage      Charges    ..Charges
OOP1M.T.! trait6 par Iquota part: |Variables .IFixes       I T 0 T A L1
1chargex va- charge fixe       .                   I
-I ~riablex
,',AP= z E  l 870T758,    2 230 T   1 241 875i 13 570 300, 14 812 175t
TPCI,1 MB.I   830T769I    1 290 T1  1 184 843!  7 850 0821  9 034 925
4PBCA FBT     418T4731    1 550 T       596 8261  9 432 2701 10 029 096t
!         .              I            I            I
JPCAI3 B^,F1  I 677T6561    1 030 T1  2 392 673t  6 267 896k  8 660 569'
OOPIdCliH3Y   207T1551     150 TI    295 4451    912 800!  1 208 245i
ZCAPCJTJ      270T503!       150 T     385 791!    912 800    1 298 5911
Ii             I                  . I           I1
I                        I             I           1'I
,1           !            I            I            I 
4 275T3141    6 400 T. 6 097 4531 38 946 148! 45 043 6011
i           I            !                          
I           IV                                
larges variables au kg caf6 trie           1,43
iarges fixes au kg caf6 trio              911 g zi
Ixarges totales noyennes au kg caf6 tri6 10,54
-arges totales rdoyennes au kg caf6 quota 7,04
DETAIL DES CHLRGES
Matieres et fournitut-es             4 513 050*
2 Transports et d6placeeents           367 600*
,3 L.utres services consomri6s      13 374 717
4 Charges et Pertes diverses '       1 289 940*
i5 Frais de Personnel               15 722 786
i8 Dotation aux anortisseraents      9 775 508
45 043 601 
-I
* varia.ble cost



CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 9
Note on size and Design of Pulperies                                        Appendix 3
1.        Production at full development
= 26,000 tons clean coffee
= 130,000 tons fresh cherry (5:1).
2.        Over approximately 260 (258) pulperies (water points)
= average 500 t. cherry per pulpery, to be processed over
75 days
= average 6.67 t. cherry per day, with estimated peak
demand about 8 t/day.
3.        Pulperies would be constructed to cater for only approximately
50 percent of this estimated peak demand, since an estimated 50 percent of
growers will continue to depulp at home.
4.        Hence each pulpery should have capacity to ferment wet depulped
cherry corresponding to an input of 4 t/day fresh cherry, equivalent to
the average annual production of about 4 farmers, or about 4 cu meter.
5.        Harvesting is at the rate of about 45 kg/day/person, or 3 tins
of cherry, and an average family is reckoned to bring in about 15 tins
in a day (about 225 kg or 270 liters).
6.        Pulperies should therefore be built to the following requirements:
(i) reception tank capable of receiving at least 1 bag (70 kg)
of cherry at a time; and
(ii) fermentation tanks should have removeable wooden parti-
tions to separate individual lots of wet parchment of
about 250 liters (0.25 cu meter), in order to permit
greater throughput and less wastage of water in the
washing stage.



CAM EROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Outline of Simple Coffee Pulping Installation at Proposed Water Points
D                           'l]
7E             FA                                           Reception tank
B      Fermentation/Washing tank
C      Hand depulper
D      Water supply
A                                                ~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E Outlet for floaters
F      Siphon for cherry to depulper
G      Pulp/skins to waste
H      Trap for stones, with plug
J      Provision for lockable covet
H                                      c                         K      Outlet grille (bamboo)
L     Slope of ground
1meter                                                     X>>..
////
Internal dimensions (m):      (Height)     (Width)      (Length)
Reception tanks                0.75          1.125        0.60
Fermentation/Washing tanks     0.75          1.00         3.20                                                                        L
divisible by wooden partitions into 8 x 0.40 m long (250 liters)
COR
August 1, 1977
World Bank -17864






ANNEX 10
Table I
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs
LOCAL       FOREIGN      TOTAL           LOCAL      FOREIGN       TOTAL         % TOTAL BASE COST
----- CFAF Million ---------            --------US$ Thousand---------
I. UCCAO
1. Headquarters Staff and Project Monitoring          191.7       148.2        339.9          782          604         1,386              7
2. Production Services
Extension Service
- General                                       99.5      15 .5         245.0          406          594        1,000               5
- Field Trial and Demonstration                234.0      14 7          375.7          955          578        1,533               8
- Bottomland Cultivation Unit                   53.4       22            75.4          217           89          306               2
Seed Production                                386.1      516.          902.1        1,575        2,106        3,681              19
Pest Control                                    41.3        92.9        134.2           168         379           547              3
Training                                       125.0       123.4        248.4           510         503         1,013               5
3. Commercial Services
Cooperatives' Service Centers                  571.0      422.6         993.6         2,330       1,724         4,054              21
Industrial Investments                          52.4       99.0         151.4          214          402          616               3
II.  Revolving Credit Fund                                     270M2       522.9        793.1         1,102       2,134         3,236              16
III. Village Water Supply                                        134.8      116.6        251.4           550         476         1,026               5
IV, Bottomland Development                                      98.7        43.1        141.8           403          176          579               3
V.  Project Evaluation and Preparation of                       52.3       94.3         146.6          213          384          597               3
Follow-Up Project
VI.  TOTAL BASE COST                                          2,310.4    2,488.2       4,798.6        9,425       10,149       19,574             100
Physical Contingencies (10%)                               231.0      248.8        479.8           942        1,015        1,957
Expected Price Increases (16%)                             402.4      446.5        848.9         1,640        1,822        3,462
VII. TOTAL PROJECT COST                                        2,943.8    3,183.5       6,127.3       12,007       12,986       24,993
of which taxes                                           534.8      -            534.8         2,182          -          2,182
VIII.  TOTAL NET OF TAXES                                        2,409.0    3,183.5       5,592.5        9,825       12,986       22,811



ANNEX 10
Table 2
CAMEROON
WESTERNq HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVEW)PE!qT PROJECT
UJCCAO - Headqjuarters Staff and Proiect Monitoring
(CFAF Million)
Unit Cost                                                                         % of                                
CFAF Million    Unit   FYI        PY2       PY3      1'Y4      Total    Taxes    Taxes    Local    Foreign    Foreign
Headquarters Staff
Personnel
Management-Financial Controller               21.7            1     22.9      19.6     20.1      24 3      86 9      12 7       15      21 7       65-2        75
Workshop Manager                              16.1            1     10.7      13.9     14.1      17.8       56.5      6 7       12      17 0       39.5        70
Senior Mechanic                                0.8            2      1.6       1 6      1.6       1 6       6 4       06        10       6 4        -           0
Aide-Mechanic                                  0.3            2      0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6        2 4      0 2       10       2 4        -0
Senior Accounting officer                      3.0            1      3.0       3.0      3.0       3 0      12 0       1 2       10      12 0        -0
Secretary/Typist                               1.8            1      1.8       1.8      1.8       1.8       7.2       0 7       10       7 2        -0
Driver                                         0.3            2      0.6       0.6      0,6       0.6        2 4      02        10       2 4        -0
Project Personnel Allowances                  pm.                    6.0      15.0     26.0      27 0      74.0            -            74 0                   0
Sub-total                                                      '47.2     56.1      67,8      76.7     247,8      72 3       9      143.1      104.7       42
Operating Costs                                  pm.                     2.2      2.2       2.2      2.2        8.8      1 3       15        5.3       3.5        40
nvestments
Vehicles and EqQioment
Accounting Equipment                          42.0          set     42.0        -         -        -       42.0
Tout-Te,rrain                                  1.25         ea       2.5        -        -         -        2.5
Sub-total                                                       44.5        -        -        -        44 5       4.4       10       8 9       35 6         80
TOTAL                                                           93.9     58.3      70.0  ..78.9       301 1      28.0       9      157.3      143.8        48
Project Monitoringt Unit
Personnel
Agroniomist                                   2,000         man-yr   1.0       2.0       2.0      2 0        7 0      0 7       10        7 0       -            0
Statistician                                  2,000          -1      1.0       2.0      2 0       2.0        7 0      0 7       10       7 0                     0
Enumerator                                      600           "        -       1.8      1.8       1 8        5 4      0.5       10       5 4        -0
Secretary/Typist                                400                  0.2       0.4      0.4       0 4        1 4      0.1       10       1 4                     0
Drivers                                         350           "      0.4       0.7      0.7       0.7       2.5       0 3       10       2 5        -0
Sub-total                                                        2.6       6.9      6.9       6.9      23 3       2 3       10      23 3        -
Operating Costs
Data collection                               PM.,                     -       2.5      2.5       2.5        7.5                 -        7 5.      -             0
vehicles                                      1,050         No/yr.   1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0        4. 0     0.6       15        1 8       2 2          55
Office                                                               0.3       0.5      0.5       0.5        1.8       -         -        1 4       0 4          20
Sub- total                                                       1.3       4.0      4.0       4.0      13.3       0.6               10 7        2 6          20
Vehicles and Equipment
Tout-Terrain                                  1,980         No.  (1)'2.0        -   -         -              2.0      0.2       10        0 4        1 6         80
Typewriters (1 long, 1 short carriage)        P.M.         No.  (2) 0.2                  -         -        0.2       0,02      10       0 04       0 16         80
Sub- total                                                       2.2        -        -         -        2.2       0.2       10       0.4        1 8          80
TOTAL                                                            6.1      10.9     10.9      10.9      38.8       3.1        8       34 4       4 4          11
Total Headquarters Staff and Prolect Monitoring                          100.0     69.2     80.9      89.8      339.9     31.1        9      191 7     148 2           44



ANNEX 10
CAMEROON                                                              Table 3
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Extension Service - General Costs
(CFAF Million)
Unit Cost                                                                                   % of                                    % of
Unit      ( 000 CPA)       PY1          PY2         PY3          PY4          Total       Taxes        Taxes        Local        Foreign        Foreign
Investment
Civil Works
Senior staff house                             1m2             94      (130)12.2          -           -            -           12.2        1.2           10          4.3           7.9             65
Intermediate staff house                        m2             94      (200)18.8                                   -           18.8         1 8          10          6 6          122              65
Subtotal                                                           31.0          _            _           -           31.0        3.0            10        10 9          20 1             65
Vehicles and Equipment
Tout -terrain 4x4                               No.         1,980      (2)   4.0          -            -           -            4.0        0.4           10          0.8           3.2             80
Pick-up                                                     1,320            -      (3)  3.9   (3)  3.9   (3)  3.9             11.7        1.1           10          2.3           9.4             80
Motorcycle                                      "             165            -       (5)  0.8   (4)  0.7   (5)  0.8             2.3         0.2           10         0.5           1.8             80
Bicycle                                         "              22            -    (25)  0.6  (25)  0.6  (25)  0.6               1.8        0.2           10          0.4           1.4             80
Station Wagon                                   "           1,700      (2)   3.4          -            -           -            3 4        0.3            10         0 7           2 7             8b
Furniture   (interm, house)                                   970            O.Q          -            -           -            0.9       0O1             10         0.9           -                0
Radio (6 stations)                               "          2,500            2.5          -            -           -             -         0.1            10         0.5           2.0            80
Subtotal                                                           10.8          5.3          5.2         5.3         26.6         2.3           10         6.1          20.5             77
Operating Costs
Building maintenance and insurance                           1.3% of cost         0.3          0.3         0 3          0.3          1.2        -             -           1.0           0.2             20
Tout-terrain                                         yr          1,000            2 0          2 0         2.0          2.0          8.0        1.2           15          3 6          4.4              55
Pick-up and station wagon                            yr            750            1.5          3 7         6 0          8.2        19.4         2 9           15          8.7          10-7             55
Motorcycle                                           yr            150            -            0.7         1.3          2.1          4 1        0.6           15          1.8           2.3             55
Bicycle                                              yr              I            -            0.03        0.05         0.08         0.16       0.02          15          0.07          0.09            55
Visit to T&V system  (India  2xl month)                          pm.              1.5                      -            -            1.5        -             -           0.1           1.4             90
Stationnary, telephone. mail                                     Vm.              0.5          0.5         0.5          0.5          2 0        -             -           1.6           0.4             20
Field materials                                                                   -            0 5         1.0          1.5          3 0        0.27            9         3 0           _                0
Subtotal                                                            5.8          7.73        11.15       14 68        39.4         5-0           12        19.4          19.5              '0
Personnel
Production Director (E)                                                          20.1         16.7        20.8          -           57.6                      13         17.2          40.4             70
- Production Deputy Director - Head Extension Division                              2.0          2.0         2.0          2.0          8.0        "             10          8.0           -                0
Training Fellows ips                                                                          15.0        15.0         20.0         50.0                                  5 0          45.0              90
Deputy Head, Extension Service                                                    2.0          2.0         2.0          2.0          8.0         0.8           10         8.0           -                 0
Extension agents                                                                  -    (14)  5.6  (14)  5.6  (14)  5.6              16.8         1.7           10        16.8           -                 0
Clerical officer                                                                  -            0.6         0.6          0.6          1.8         0.2           10         1.8           -                 0
Secretary/typist                                                                  -            0.35        0.35         0.35         1.0         0.1           10         1.0           -                 0
Drivers                                                                    (4)   1.2   (4)  1.2   (4)  1.2   (4)  1%2                4.8         0.4           10         4.8           -                 0
Subtotal                                                           25.3         43.45       47.55        31.75       148.0        11.5           o8         62.6         85 4              5i
Total                                                              72.9         56.5         63.9         51.7       245.0        21.8'           9-        99 5         145.5             60



ANNEX 10
CAMYROON                                                             Tsble
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                              Page 1
Field Trial and Demonstration Unit
(CFAF Million)
Unit Cost                                                                                   . of                                   7of
Unit    ('000 CFAF)        pyl         PY2          PY3          PY4         Total        Taxes       Taxes        Local        Foreign        Foreign
I. Main Unit
Investment
Civil Works
Senior staff house (130 m2)                   m2             94   (130) 12.2           -            -             -         12.2         1.2          10          4.3           7 9           65
Intermediate staff house (100 .2)             m2             94   (400) 37.6           _            _            _          37.6        3.8           10        .13 2         24 4            65
Field stores (5x6O m2)                        m2             33   (300) 99 9                                                 9. 9        1.0          10          3 5           6 4           65
Subtotal                                                        59.7          -                                    59.7         6,0          10         21.0         38 7            65
Vehicles and Eunipemnt
Truck, 7.5t          /                        No.         3,410      (1)  3.4          -            -             -          3.4         0.3            9         0.7           2.7            80
Tout-terrain (4X)-                            No.         1,980      (2)  3.9    (1) 1.9            -             -          5.8         0.5            9         1.2           4.6            80
Pick-up, 1.3t 2                               No.         1,320      (2)  2.6    (2) 2.6            -        (2) 2.6         7.8         0.7            9         1.6           6.2            80
Motorcycles                                   No.           165            -       (5) 0.8          -        (3) 0.5         1.3         0.1            9         0.3           1.0            80
House furniture                               No.         1,000      (3)  3.0          -            -             -          3.0         0.3           9          3.0           -               0
Field trial equipment                                     pm.              0.5          -           -             -          0.5         0.05           9         0.2           0.3            50
Subtotal                                                         13.4         5.3          -             3.1       21.8         1.95           9         7.0          14.8            68
Operating Costs
Buildings maintenance and insurance
(1.3% of cost)                                                             -           0.7          0.7          0.7         2.1        -              -          1.7          0.4            20
Truck                                           Yr          1,800            1.8          1.8         1.8           1.8        7.2         1.0           15         3.2           4.0            55
Tout-Terrain                                     Yr         1,050            2.1          3.1         3.1           3.1       11.4         1.7           15          5.1          6.3            55
Pick-un                                          Yr           750            1.5          3.0         3.0           4.5       12.0         1-8           15          5.4          6.6            55
Motorcycles                                      Yr           150            -            0.7         0.7           1.2         2.6        0.4           15          1.2          1.4            55
Field materials                                              pm,             0.5          1 5         2.0           2.0         6.0        0.5            9          4 8          1,2            20
Subtotal                                                          5.9        10.8         11.3          13.3       41.3         5.4           13        21.4          19.9            48
Personnel
Unit head *R)                                    No.       16,300       (1) 17.3    (1)13 9   (1) 17 8              -         49.0         5.6           11         14.7         34.3            70
Unit Deouty Head                                 "          1,600       (1)  1 6    (1) 1.6   (1)  1.6          (1) 1.6         6.4        0.6           10          6.4           -              0
OZC Miff, Basoun                                            1,000       (4)  0.5    (1) 1 0   (1)  1.0          (1) 1.0         3.5        0.3           10          3.5           -               0
OIC Menous, Bamboutos                                       1,000      4t)  0.5    (1) 1.0   (1)  1.0           (1) 1.0         3.5        0.3           10          3.5           -               0
OIC Nle, R. Nkam                                 "          1,000       (k)  0.5    (1) 1.0   (1)  1.0          (1) 1.0         3.5        0 3           10          3.5           -               0
Dept. Field suvervisors                          '          1,000       (2)  2.0    (5) 5.0   (5)  5.0          (5) 5.0        17.0        1.7           10         17.0           -               0
Clerical officer                                              350       (4   0.18   (1) 0.35  (1)  0.35         (1) 0.35        1.23       0.1           10          1.23          -               0
Secretary/typist                                 "             350      (4)  0.18   (1) 0.35  (1)  0.35         (1) 0.35        1.23       0.1           10          1.23          -               0
Drivers                                          "            300       (5)  1.5    (8) 2.4   (8)  2.4    (10) 3.0              9.3        0.9           10          9.3           -               0
Casual labor (300 man-days per ATA/Year) man-days             500            -  (1,500) 0.75(1,500)0.75 (1,500)0.75             2.25       -             -           2.25          -               0
Inland travel and per diem                                  pm.              -            2.0         2.5           2.5         7.0        -             -           7.0          -               0
Training and study (IITA, Ibadan, 2)             month         200      (2)  0.4          -            -            -           0.4        -             -           0.1           0.3            90
Training and study (Rwanda, 2)                                 500      (2)  1.0          -                         -           1.0        -             _           0.2           0.8            80
Consultant, erosion control                      week         400      (14)  0.6    (1) 0.4            -        (1) 0.4         1.4        -             -           0.3           1.1            80
Consultant (IITA Ibadan)                                      200       (1)  0.2    (1) 0.2           0.2           -           0.6        -             -           0.1           0.5            80
House rental allowances                                     pm.              0.8          1.4          1.7          1.7         5.6        -             -           5.6           -               0
Subtotal                                                         27.26        31.35       35.65         18.65     112.9         9.9           9          75.9         37.0            33
Research under Contract                                                           9.7         20.6        21.1          21.1       72.5         6.5           9         61.6          10.9            15
Total Main Unit                                                            115.96        68.05        68.05        56.15    308.2         29.8            9       186 9         121 3             39
1/    Out of this I for contract rohearch.
2/    Out of this 2 for contract readerch.



ANNEX 10
CAMEROON                                                          Table 4
Page 2
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Field Trial and Demonstration Unit
(CFAF Million)
Unit Cost                                                                              % of                                  % of
Unit      ('000 CFAF)    PYl          PY2        PY3         PY4         Total        Taxes       Taxes       Local       Foreign       Foreign
II Reforestation Unit
Investment
Civil Works and Establishment
Intermediate Staff House (100 m2)           m             94           9.4         -           -                       9.4        0.9          10         3.3          6.1             65
Junior staff House (70 m2)                  m2            94           6.6         -           _                       6.6        0.6          10         2.3          4.3             65
Nursery establishment and Ea. (7)           No.        1,000            7.0        _           -           -           7.0        0.7           10        4 2          2.8             40
Subtotal                                                      23.0         -           -          -          23.0         2.2          10         9.8         13.2            57
Vehicles
Toute-terrain                                          1,980      (1)  1 9         -           -           _           1.9        0.17          9         0.4           1 5            80
Motorcycle                                               165      (2)  0.3         -           -                       0.3        0 03           9        0 1           0.2            80
Subtotal                                                       2.2         -           -          -            2 2        0.2           9         0.5          1.7            80
Operating Costs
Buildings, maintenance and insurance
(1.3% of costs)                                                        -           0.2         0.2         0.2         0.6        -             -         0.5          0 1             20
Toute-Terrain                                 No /Yr    1,050             1.0         1 0        1.0          1.0        4.0         0.6          15         1.8          2.2            55
Motorcycle                                    No./Yr        150           0.3         0.3         0.3         0 3         1.2        0.2          15         0.5          0.7            55
Field inputs (fertilizer, chemicals,
tools)                       pm.                        0.5         1.0         1.0         1.0         3.5        0.3           9         1.0          2.5             70
Subtotal                                                       1.8         2.5         2.5         2.5         9.3        1.1          12         3.8          5.5             59
Personnel
Extension officer                             No.        1,000      (1)  1.0    (1) 1.0   (1)  1.0    (1) 1.0             4.0        0.4          10         4.0          -                0
Extension agent                               No.          400      (1)  0.4    (2) 0.8   (2)  0.8    (2) 0.8             2.8        0.3          10         2.8          -                0
Driver                                        No.           300     (1)  0.3    (1) 0.3   (1)  0.3    (1) 0.3             1.2        0.1          10         1.2          -                0
Casual labor (100 man-days/ha;
500 ha)                      man-day        0.5         - _10,000)5.0(20,00 l0.0(20,00 IQO             25.0        2.5           10       25.0           -               0
Subtotal                                                       1.7         7.1        12.1        12.1        33.0        3.3          10        33.0          -                0
Total Reforestation Unit                                            28.7        9.6         14.6        14.6        67.5         6.8          10        47.1         20.4            30
III. Cost Summary
Main Unit                                                                    114.96     68 05        68.05       56.15      308.2       29.8            9       186 9        121 3            39
Reforestation Unit                                                           28 7        9 6         14 6        14.6        67.5        6 8           10       47.1          20 4            3n
TOTAL                                                        143.66      77 65        82-65       70.75      375.7       36.6            9      234 0         141 7            37






ANNEX 10
Table 5
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bottomland Cultivation Unit Cost
(CFAF Million)
Unit Cost                                                                       e of                              % of
Unit    CFAF Million        FYI       PY2       py3       PY4        Total    Taxes    Taxes    Local    Foreign           Foreign
Personnel
Extension Officer                                                  2.0           2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0         8.0                            8.0        -            0
Extension Assistants                                               1.2           -         3.6       7.2        7.2       18.0                           18.0        -            0
Extension Agents                                                   0.4           -         1.2       2.0        2 0        5.2                            5.2                     0
Driver                                                             0.3           0.3       0.3       0.3        0.3        1.2                            1.2         -           0
Rice Huller Operator                                               0.3           -         0.15      0.15      0.15        0.5                            0.5        -            0
Sub-total                                                                  2.3       7.3       11.7      11.7       33.0       3.2        10       33.0         -           0
Operating Costs                                                       p.m.         7.5       7.5        7.5       7.5       30.0       4.5        15       16.5        13.5        45
Investments
Civil Works
Intermediate Staff Housing (100m2)                  m2             9.4           9.4        -         -          -         9.4       0.9       10         3.3        6.1         65
Vehicles and Epuipment
Tout-Terrain                                         No            2.0           2.0         -         -         -         2.0         -        -          -
Motorcycles                                          No            0.165         0.5       0.5        -          -         10                  -
sub-total                                                                  2.5        0.5                            3.0        0.3       10        0.6         2.4        80
TOTAL                                                                     21.7       15.3      19.2      19.2       75.4        8,9       12       53.4        22.0        30



4,  r,~~nno~o.  NCO   4  I4O.-~I44II4N   ..loI    .4NIfl~1.444N  N N      14              4 0 4rJ   O .4.orn.'.    .                                 .O.     .     .     .     .     .     .N.N .     .4 .0 .     .     .  
-      -   -   7-    -       - -   -            -    -                                                                                                                              o  -   -a .... N,       -              -
-  S                                                         .         .                                                                                     .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ....        
I - o                  _0 N    4 1 _                            4 o   1 _  4 , n -- -N                   - -                                                      - - - - - -
-     -            -            5d~~z-- --     - d - d d d d oo o c -o - - -n.  d2.A                                                .4         o4.c..              ~c,.oN NN 4.I
-                                             N~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
-a   - A4                                                                     -4 1
I                                                                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 1P 1.
:~~~~~~8                                                                                 -..-z2                                                    -
*|                         - 0        00I00          ONtIOI  4NS             .4  o5 <                        1 iF <NONO    N ~       0              N O O N     ONNN44  NNIo          *'|4           iO'            f                              4      N   N        ..tfoo"
i   ;  |0 0     0  ' N ,NOONN   0   0 3      **oo0 r            01
g ~ ~     ~       ~     ~      ~0I.N.~ |4444 NVI                                         NN 10NI1 4                     NO    N ,54    40          000 004                                                                  . *_(   -0    N_ _O N ~0440 011 o        S
| | O ~~t NNNNNO   o<0ctN _OOb<N O4(O _4                              O   '0'  '0       0001f|_   oo1N00000_    ONONNO ONNO                       NON                                                       0000_  N           0..0 00 0 4    O3
l  8 t                   N - ~0N N0N NNfiN  O N___N._ N  _NmN NN4N O N                                                                         .4 _. _OI _.4 _.0 _'I _                                                                               4.0~~~~  
l c.|  '0' ' ' ' '                                                                                    -                                     -                             *-                                      |               - -    ,         -    _ OOoN | 0    IIII II|0
l    V >                ~~N       O                                                                                                                                                                                        00           00    0 N         4               
0  N  1-<__                                                                    NZ0_                                              
S                     "4   4  .4  4                                                                                                                                                      4_         0    
-4    4. c34 o                                    ,.S4  cg      yNN  gN     N                                                                                                                                    vvvI
Y.    O-                         -    _45
45 IZ   J.                                                                                                                                                                                        44           0 V                   .4__g       
Cl  b  X _ a  b X a5a-4*R S                                        33.DD. ~X 
0v v                                                                               4    v      1o1v    0o0                                                                                        Ec           e
:     O    : w      4O .-54          0    0 . 1 1            4      .4    00 V140                  44        .          .1 e0                    
0 ~ ~~~~~~ ~ ~                                        440         ..4l4 _          V               O4                  0440  1bC. C a4.    04O4.b'      _@@@                  O o          Z0@wC             <~>
b0            0 4 V.          4   0    0   .       0  1   0     1    0 V0 0 C0                                                            N     0 0 0 e4  b   b4                                -- C4                4  . .  .     01        4                                                                 
2~ ~      ~        ~       ~ ~ ~.   44041.0                                          04  e(1   014                     *.o  40444;444NO                                                                                 eb
- ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      0     *4 1 4.4 4 4Z 4 0. 1, 4 



Page 2
iMTUNi  HIGMLANSIMSiDAL DIVELOPNIDi  PROJECT
unit CostoO                                                                                                      of                    f
Unit    C DO  CrAP)          Yi-       Ln2          PY3         PY4          Total       Tent         Usese       iesai        huaij         121*11m
Heed, Seed Production                           Io                       4)1.        (1) 13.9   (1) 14.1   ()11.0              49.7         5.7         .11         14.9          M4.D          70
Seedtproceeeing expett'                                                      I4) 107   (1)13.9   (1)14.1   (4)) 11.0           49.:7         5.7         11         14.9          34.8           70
Deputy Seed Production                                      1,600       ()0.8   (1)  1.6   (1)  1.6   (1)  1.6                  3.6          0.5         10          3.6           -0
Deputy Deed Proceacig                            '          1,6,00       4)0.8   (1)  1.6   (1)  1.6   (1)  1.6                 5.6          0.3         10          3.6                          0
Deed fecsean,e                                   '          1,400        4)0.7   (1)  1.4   (1)  1.4   (1)  1.4                 4.9          0.3         10          4.9           -0
site e-pervicor                                               600             -      (1)  0.6   (2)  1.2   (3)  1.8             3.6          0.3         10I          3.6-0
Senior mehani                                    '000                    4   0.4    1)08          1)0.8   (1)  0.8              3.8          0.          10           2.8          -0
Senio  clericel Office                           "            800             -      ((11)  0.0   (1)B  0.8   I1)   .8          2.4          0.          10           2.4            
Accoutant                                        0          1,200        4)0.6   (1)  1.2   (1)  1.2   (1)  1.2                 4.2          0.4         10           4.2          -0
Seede onlyat                                                1,000             -      (4)  0.5   (1)  1.0   (1)  1.0             2.5          0.3         100          2.35 
Storekeeper                                                   400        4)0.2   (1)  0.4   (1)  0.4   (1)  0.4                 1.4          0.1         10           1.4          -0
lfechaciclvelder                  '           ~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~250  0.1   (1)  0.3   (1)  0.3   (1)  0.3  1.0     -0                       1.0           -0
Dlertronian                      "            ~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~200  -  (1)  0.2   (1)  0.2   (1)  0.2  0.6      -0                       0.6           -0
Brichle.yec/cerponter                            '            250       ()0.1   (1)  0.3   (1)  0.3   (1)  0.3                  1.0          0.1         10           1.0          -0
Troch driverea                                                330       (4)  0.2   (1)  0.3   (3)  1.0   (3)  1.0               2.5          0.2         10           2 3                         0
Trator drivere                                                400.      (k)  0.2   (4)  1.6   (5)  2 0   (5)  2.0                5 8         0 6         10           5.8-0
Pic~k-on ..to-rerrein drivore                                 300       (1)  0.3   (3)  0.9   (3)  1.5   (3)  1.5               4.2          0 4         10           4 2          -0
Deed handln  enrireo                                          600             -      (1)  0.6   (1)  0.6   (1)  0.6             1.8          0 2         10           I 0                         0
Seoret.ry                                        '            330       14)  0 2    1)0 3   (1)04   '1)0.4                      1.3          0.1         10           1 3          -              0
Typiet                                           '            300- (1) -1                 0.3   (1)03    (1) 03                 0.9          -            0           0.9          -0
N.e...cgor                                       "            130        (1   0.     (1   0.     (1   01   (1)  02              0.3                       0           0.)                         0
Vecche-                                                       1500      (1)  0 1    (12)  0.13  (2)  03    (2)  0 3             10           -0                       1.0          -0
Permanen.tlahb-  1 1 ne  10 he)                  0            130             -    '10)  1 3  (25)  3 8  (33)  5.3             10 6          -0                      10 6          - 
Caeu. Iahor (300 tea-dey./ha)          .000 et-dyey        5.000                    (3)  1.)  (7 51 3.0_(12. 3) 61            11.4          -0                      1.                           0
Suhtotal                                                            26 2        44 9         32 0        31.1        17) 0         16.1          9        103 4          69.6           40
Total Foodcrope Seed-Fo... bt                                     Ag.           1  6I...   133l.3       112 4        J45.         _83 7          9         36) 5        480 057
B. Potato Seed Productioc - CDIPS Dafor
Tuveetm.at
civil Wdora
ieed etore                                  .2             33            - (150)  4.9             -           -4.9                      0.)          10          1.7           3.2          63
VIl'l  'Tippe  t4ruk  7.1t                    No.         4,400             -      (1)  4.4         -            -4.4                      0.4         10          0.9           3.5          80
Toot-terrain                                            1,9800                  (1)  1.9          -           -1.9                      0.2          10          0.4           1.)          so
Motorcycle                    '            ~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~165  - (1)  0.2  -    -0.2                      0.02        10           0.04         0.16          s0
Spr.yer                                     '15                          -     (14)  0.72                                   0.2         0.02         10          0.04          0.16         so
Irrigation pipe. (100, diem, 60ne,
inetellod)            03.7 (2,500)!_ 0._-                                   -                         8.8         0.9         10           1.8          7.0           go
Sohitetl                                                             8.0         6.7          -           -           15.5          1 5         10           3.2         12.3           00
Oneratino Coote
Truck                                            vr         1,800             -           1.8          10          1.0          3.4          008         15           2 4          3.0          35
Tout-terrain                                     yr         1,00                          1.0         1I0          1 0          3 0          0.4         15           1 3          1.7           53
Motorcycle                                       yr           1SO                         0 2          0 2         0 2          0 6          0 09        15           0 3          0.3           33
Potato eced                                      t            250             -           3.0          3 0         3 0         11 4          1 5         10           2 3          9 1           00
Vegetehleece.d                                   kg            10             -           0)5         05           035           1.5         0 1         10           0.3          1.2           80
Fertili-e                                        t             36                         2 2          2.2         2 2          6 6          0.7         10           2.0          4.6           70
?eeticide                                       Ikg              1            01          0 1          0.1         0 1          0 4          0.04        10          0.1           0.3           70
Bage, pe,ro  100 k8                              N.           175             0 1         0 1          0 1         0.1          0 4          0.04        1)          0.1           0.3           70
Toole end niec                                                                            owl0-  .   __           -             0 1           a0.0       10          0 01          0.05          so
Soht.tal                                                             0.2         9.8         9 7          9.7         29.4          3.3         11          0.9          20 5          70
Site Suyervier                                  No.           600             -           0 3         0 6          0.6          1.3          0 1          0          1.)           -             0
TT ock driver                                                 400             -           0 2         0.4          0.4          1.0         0.1           0          1.0-0
Driver                           0            ~~~~            ~     ~     ~~~~        ~~~~        ~~~ ~        ~~~~300  -0.1  0.3  0.3  0 7  0.1  0   0.7          -0
Storkeyc                                         '            400             -           0.2          0.4         0.4          1.0          0.1          0          1.0           -0
Co.a Ilahbr (50 -na-doyfke)                  n-d.y              0.)          -7          .......(2,5OQfL.L.(2,5D0jl.3           2.6          -0                      2.6           -0
Suhtorol                                                             -           0.0          3.0         3.0          6.8          0.4          6          6.8           -0
Totol Pototo Iced Production                                         9.0        22.2         12.7        12.7         56.6          3.7         10         20.6          36.0          64
Suod Production Cuet Sumeor
Fundor-pe Seed - Fo... or                                                        384.2       215.6       133.3       112.4         845 5        83.7          9        365 5        480 0            57
Potot. Seed - COOPS Bafou                                                         9.0         22.2        12.7        12.7         56.6          3.7         10         20.6         3.0jQ..        6
TOTAL                                                             393.2        237.8       146.0        125.1       902.1         89.4           9        386 1        -516 0          57



ANNEX 10
Table 7
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pest Control Unit
(CFAF Million)
Unit Cost                                                                   % of                            % of
Unit     CFAF Million    PYl        PY2       PY3       PY4       Total    Taxes    Taxes    Local    Foreign    Foreign
Investment
Vehicles and Equipment
Truck 3.5t                                      No.           2,100    (1)2.1   (1)2 1   (1)2.1           -         6 3      0 6       10        1.3        5.0         80
Tout-terrain 4 x 4                              "              1,980    (1)1 9   (1)1.9   (1)1.9          -         5.7      0.6       10        1.1        4.6         80
Pick-up 1.3t                                                   1,320       -      (1)1.3       -           _        1 3      0.1       10        0.3        1.0         80
Svingfog sprayers                               "                150        -    (60)9 0  (60)9 0  (60)9.0         27 0       2.7      10        5.4       21.6         80
Knapsack sprayers                               "                 15        -    (20)0 3  (20)0 3  (20)0 3          0.9       0.09      10       0.2        0 7         80
Motorcycle                                      '                165    (2)0.3   (1)0.2   (1)0.2   (1)0.2           0.9      0 09       10       0.2        0 7         80
Drums, tools, misc.                             "             p.m.         0.3       0.5       0.7       1.0        2 5       0.2        8       0.9        1.6         65
Sub-total                                                              4.6      15.3      14.2     10.5       44 6       4.4        9        9 4        35.2        79
Civil Works
Intermediate Staff Housing (100m2)              m2                94  (100)9.4       -         -         -          9.4
Junior Staff Housing (70m2)                     m2                70 (210)14.7(140) 16.4       -                   31.1
Sub-total                                                             24.1      16.4       -         -        40.5       4.1       10       14 2        26.3        65
Operating Costs
Building-maintenance                             -             p.m.        0.3       0.6       0.6       0.6        2 1       0.3       15        0 9         1 2        55
Truck                                           Yr.            1,400        1.4      2.8       4.2       4.2       12 6       1 8       15        5 7         6.9        55
Tout-terrain                                    Yr.            1,050        1.0      2.0       3.1       3.1        9.2       1 4       15       4.1          5 1        55
Pick-up                                         Yr.              750        -        0.8       0.8       0.8        2.4       0.4       15        1 1         1 3        55
Sprayers spare parts                            -             p.m.          -        1.0       2.0       3.0        6.0       0.6       10        1 2         4 8       80
Stationary, electricity, misc.                  -             p.m.         0.2       0.4       0.8       1.0        2.4       -         -         1 9         0 5        20
Pesticide, antestia control                  1,000 1             300        -        3.9       3.9       3.9       11.7       1.2       10        2.3         9 4       80
Gasoline, swing fog sprayers                 1,000 1              70        -        0.9       0.9       0.9        2.7       -         -        0 5          2 2        80
Sub-total                                                             2.9      12.4      16.3     17.5       49.1       5 7       11       17 7        31 4        64
TOTAL                                                                31.6      44.1      30.5      28.0     134 2      14.2       10       41 3        92 9        70 _



ANNEX 10
CAMEROON                                                     Table 8
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training Costs
(CFAF' Million)
Unit Cost                                                                         % of                                    % of
Unit    ('000 CFAF)        PYI       PY2       PY3       PY4       Total        Taxes       Taxes        Local       Foreign        Foreign
Investment
Civil Works
Teaching room (30 trainees)                 m2             60   (100)   6.0        -         -         -          6.0         0.6          10          2.1           3.9           65
Library (10 trainees)                       m2             60   ( 40)   2.4        -         -         -           2.4        0.2                      0.8           1.6           65
Farm shed and storage                       m2             33   ( 75)   2.5        -         -         -           2.5        0.3                      0.9           1.6            65
Administrative office                       m2             60   (135)   8.1        -         -         -           8.1        0.8                      2.8           5.3            65
Boarding house:
Bedrooms and facilities                   m2             60   (270)  16.2        -         -         -         16.2         1.6                      5.7         10.5            65
Dining room                               m2             60   ( 30)   1.8        -         -         -          1.8         0.2                      0.6           1.2           65
Kitchen, food storage                     m2             60   ( 30)   1.8        -         -         -          1.8         0.2                      0.6           1.2           65
Senior staff house                          m2             94   (130)  12.2        -         -         -         12.2         1.2                      4.3           7.9           65
Intermediate staff house                    m2             94   (200)  18.8 (300)28.2        -         -         47.0         4.7                     16.5         30 5            65
Site works                                                p.m.           12 0                -         -          12.0        1.2                      9.6           2 4            20
Subtotal                                                            81.8        28.2     _                  110.0       11.0          10         43 9          66 1            60
Vehicles and Enuinment
Tout-terrain                                 No.        1,980      (2)   4.0       -         -          -          4 0                                 0.8           3.2            80
Film orocessing and Drinting
equipment (incl. cameras)                 P.m.        1,000             2.0      -         -         -          2.0,                                 0.4           1 6           80
Offset press                                No.         2,500      (1)   2.5       -         _         _           2.5                                 0.5           2 0            80
Mobile projection van                        No.        4,900      (2)   9.8       -         -         -           9.8                                 2 0           7 8            80
Subtotal                                                            18.3       -         -         -         18.3         1.9         10           3 7          14 6           80
Operating Costs
Building maintenance and insurance                             p.m.            -        0.7       0.7       0.7         2.1        -             0          1.7           0.4            20
Miscellaneous (houses and office)                              p.m.            -        0.2       0.2       0.2        0.6         -             0          0.4           0.2            20
Field demonstrations                                           p.m.            -        0.1       0.1       0.1         0.3        -             0          0.3           -               0
Boarding                                                       p.m.            _        1.8       2.4       2.4         6.6        -             0          6.6           -               0
Printing and film materials                      Yr.           400             0.2      0.4       0.4       0.4         1.4        0.2         15           0.5           0.9            70
Mobile projection van and equipment                            p,m.            0.7      1.5       1.5       1.5         5.2        0.8          15          2.3           2.9            55
Tout-terrain                                     Yr.         1,050             1.0      2.1       2.1       2.1         7.3        1.0          15          3.3           4.0            55
Subtotal                                                              1.9      6.8       7.4       7.4       23.5         2.0           8         15.1           8.4            36
Personnel
Head Training Unit (E)                                      16,300            17.3    13.9       17.8       -         49.0         5.6          11         14.7          34.3            70
Denuty Head Training Unit                                    2,000             2.0      2.0       2.0       2.0         8.0        0.8          10          8.0           -               0
Training Officer                                             1,600             3.2      3.2       3.2       3.2        12.8        1.3          10         12.8           -               0
Field Demonstration Suvervisor                               1,200             -        1,2       1.2       1.2         3.6        0.4          10          3.6           -               0
Technical Officer                                            1,200             -        1.2       1.2       1 2         3 6        0.4          10          3.6           -               0
Demonstration/nublicity agents                                 800             -        1.6       1.6       1 6         4 8        0.5          10          4.8           -               0
Printer/processor                                              800             0 8      0.8       0 8       0.8         3 2        0 3          10          3 2           -               0
Mobile van driver                                              400             -        0 8       0 8       0 8         2 4        0.2          10          2.4           -               0
Clerical officer                                               600             -        0 6       0.6       0 6         1.8        0.1          10          1.8           -               0
Tout-terrain driver                                            300             0.6      0.6       0 6       0.6         2.4        0.2          10          2.4           -               0
Secretary/typist                                               400             0.2      0.4       0.4       0 4         1.4        0.1          10          1.4           -               0
Cook                                                           300             -        03        0.3       0.3         0.9        -             0          0.9           -               0
Messenger                                                      150             0.1      0.1       0 2       0.2         0 6        -             0          0.6           -               0
Watchman                                                       150             0 1      0 1       0.2        0.2        0 6        -             0           0.6           -              0
Permanent labor                                                150             -        0.5       0.5       0.5         1.5        -             0           1.5          -               0
Subtotal                                                             24.3    27.3       31 4      13.6        96.6        9.9          10         62.3          34.3            36
TOTAL                                                              126.3    62.3        38.8      21.0      248.4        24.8         o10        125.0        1t23 4            48



ANNEX 10
Table 9
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cooverative Service Centers - Civil Works and Vehicles and Equinment Costs
(CFAF Million)
Unit                                                                                                          ot                                             of
Cost       No.       PYI           PY2            PY3           PY4            Total          Taxes         Taxes          Local          Foreign          Foreign
Investment
Civil Works
Construction new CSC               20.0       10         (2) 40 0      (5)100.0       (3) 60.0       -              200.0          18.0           9              90.0          110.0             55
Upgrading existing stores          12.5       25        (10)125.0    (10)125.0        (5) 62.5       -              312.5          27.5           9             140.6          171.9             55
Subtotal                                          165.0         225.0          122.5       -              512.5         45.5            9             230.6          281.9             55
Vehicles and Equipment
Truck 7.5t                          3.4       16             54.4           -             -          -               54.4           4.96          9              10.9            43.5            80
Pick-up 4 x 4 1.2t                  2.3       13             29.9                                                    2 -            2 73         10               1.2            43.69           80
Motorcycles                         0.165    35          (12) 2.0    (15)2.5           (8) 1.3        -06                                         10               1.2            4.6            80
Subtotal                                           86.3         2.5              1.3       -               90.1           8.3           9              isl             72.0
Total Investment                                  251.3        227.5           123.8       -              6.2 6          53.8            9            248.7           353.9
Operating Costs
Building maintenance                200                    (2)  0.4      (7)  1.4    (10)  2.0   (10)  2.0              5.8           -              -              4.6             1.2            20
Building insurance                   60                    (2)  0.1      (7)  0.3    (10)  0.6   (10)  0.6              1.6           0.2           15               1.6            -               0
Office                              500                         1.0            3.5           5.0           5.0         14.5           2.2           15               8.7            5.8            40
Truck                             1,800          16            28.8           28.8          28.8          28.8        115.2          17.3           15             51.8            63.4            55
Pick-up                           1,050          13            13.7           13 7          13.7          13 7         54.8           8.2           15              24.7           30.1            55
Total Operating                                    44.0           47.7          50.1          50.1        191.9          27.9          14.5            91.4           100.5            52
Personnel
Head CSC accountant/
credit administrator            l,UOo         35             12.0           27.0          35.0          35.0        109.0          10.9          10             109               -               0
Storekeeper/Supnlier                450          35             5.4           12i.1          15.7         15.7!        48.9          .4.9           10              48.9             -              0
Driver, truck                       400          16             6.4            6.4           6 4           6.4         25.6           2.6           10              25.6             -              0
Driver, pick-up                     300          13             3.9            3.9           3.9           3 9         15.6           1 6          10              15.6             -               0
Total Personnel                                    27.7           49.4          61.0          61.0        199.1          20.0           10             i99.1             -              0
TOTAL                                         323.0         324.6          234.9        111.1         993.6        101.7           10             539.2           454.i            46



ANNEX 10
CAMEROON                                                           Table 10
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UCCAO - Commercial Services: Industrial Investments
(CFAF Million)
Unit Cost                                                                                 % of                                   % of
CFAF Million  Unit          PYI      PY2       PY3       PY4      Total       Taxes       Taxes       Local       Foreign       Foreign
Investment
Vehicles and Equipment
Workshop tools                         36.8        pm.          36.8       -         -        -         36.8        3.3          9           7.4        29.4           80
Station wagon                            1.7        1            1.7       -                             1.7        0.2          9           0.3         1.4           80
Pick-us (4x4)                           2.3         1            2.3       -         -        -          2.3        0.2          9           0.5         1.8           80
Industrial eauioment                   55.8         1           55.8      _                   -         55.8        5 1          9          11.2        44.6           80
Subtotal                                                    96.6       -                  -         96.6        8.8          9          19.4        77.2           80
Ooerating Costs
Workshon                                     3 7       pm.            3.7      3.7       3.7       3.7       14 8       2.2         15          11.1         3.7            25
Station wagon                               0.6                      0 6       0.6       0.6      0.6        2 4        0.4         15           1.3         1.1           45
Pick-un f4x4)                                1.0                     1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       4 0        0.6         15           2.2        -1.8           45
Industrial eduinment (15% of cost)                                   8.4       8 4       8.4      8.4       33.6        5.4         15          18.4        15.2           45
Subtotal                                                    13.7      13.7     13.7      13 7       54.8        8.6         15          33.0        21.8           40
TOTAL                                                     110.3      13..      F37       13.7     151.4       17.4          il         52.4        99.0            65



ANNEX 10
CAMEROON                                                       Table 11
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Water Supply Costs 1/
(CPAF Million)
% of                                       % of
PYI          PY2           PY3           PY4          Total                 Taxes         Taxes         Local         Foreign         Foreign
Annual Installation Program
Wells and Spring Collection                -             65           70            73            208
Small piped supply scheme                  -              1            2             4              7
Medium piped supply scheme                 -              1             1           -               2
Expenditures
Vehicles and Equipment
Vehicles                                 20.1         -             -             -              20.1                  1.8           9            5.4          14.7              73
Equipment                                12.1          -            -             -              12.1                  1.4          12            2.9           9.2               76
Subtotal                        32.2          -             -             -             32.2                  3.2                        8.3           23.9              74
Installations
- Wells and spring collection
Personnel                              -            21.8          23.5          24.5           69.8                  6.9          tO           69.8          -                   0
Materials                              -            20.9          22.5          23.5           66.9                  6.7          10           20.1          46.8               70
Operating costs                        -            10.3          11.1          11.5           32.9                  4.9          15           14.8          18.1              55
Subtotal                         -            53.0          57.1          59.5         169.6                 18.5                      104.7           64.9              38
- Piped supoly scheme
Personnel                              -              2 1          2.7           2.3            7.1                  0.7          to            7.1           -                  0
Materials                              -             8.7          11 2          10.0           29.9                  3.0          10            9.0           20.9              70
Operating costs                        -              1.0          1 2          10.4           12 6                  1 9          15            5.7            6.9              55
Subtotal                        -             11.8          15.1          22.7          49.6                   5 6                      21.8           27 8              56
TOTAL                           32.2          64.8          72.2          82.2         251.4                 27.3           11         134.8          116.6              46
1! Further details at Annex 8



ANNEX 10
CAMEROON                                                        Table 12
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bottomland Development Il
(CFAF Million)            -
% of                                       7% of
PY1         PY2           PY3           PY4         Total                 Taxes         Taxes         Local         Foreign          Foreign
Area Developed (ha)
Irrigation                                10            -             -             -
Drainage and flood protection              -           50            140           200
Annual total                              10           50            140           200
Cum ulative                               10           60            200           400
Expenditures
Vehicles and Equipment                    39.4          -             -             -           39.4                  4.4           11           11.4            28.0             71
Bottomland Works                           4.7          4.8           13.4          19.1        42.0                  4.1           10           31.5           10.5              25
Manigement Teem - Personnel                7.0          7.0            7.0           7.0       28.0                   2.8           10           28.0            -                0
- Operating Cost          2.1          2.1            2.1           2.1        8.4                   1.2           15            3.8            4.6             55
Technical Assistance                       2.1          5.7           10.2           6.0        24.0                  2.4           10           24.0             -                0
TOTAL                             55.3         19.6           32.7          34.2      141.8                  14.9           11           98.7           43.1             30
I/ Annex 7, Tables 4 to 7



ANNEX 10
Table 13
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pro ject Evaluation and Preparation of Follow-Up Project Costs
(CFAF Million)
Unit Cost                                                                    % of                             % of
Unit      ('000 CFAF)    PYl       PY2       PY3       PY4     Total        Taxes      Taxes    Local    Foreign    Foreign
Personnel 1/
Evaluation Specialist                         man-year        19,200          12.1     16.7      17.1      21.2    67.1        8.9        13        20.1       47.0        70
Agricultural Economist 2/                     man-month        2,080          -        -      (5)10.4  (5)10.4    20.8         2.2        11         6.3       14.5        70
Marketing Specialist2/                           "             2,080          -        -      (5)10.4  (2) 4.2    14.6          1.6        11        4.3       10 3        70
Financial Analyst 2/                             "             2,080          -        -      (5)10.4  (5)10.4    20.8         2.2        11         6.3       14.5        70
Socio-Economist 2/                               "               245         -         -      (5) 1.2  (2) 0.5      1 7        0.2        10         1 7        -           0
Supporting Staff                                              p.m.           -         -          0.8       0.7     1.5        0 1        10         1.5         -          0
Sub-total                                                             12.1      16.7     50.3      47.4   126.5        15.4        11        40.2       86-3        66
Vehicles and Equipment
Tout-terrain                                  No.              1,980           2.0     -          1.9      -         3.9         0.4                 0.8        3.1        80
Operating Costs                                  -               p.m.             1.0       1.0      7.1       7.1    16.2          1.6                 11 3        4.9        30
TOTAL                                                                15.1      17.7      59.3      54.5    146.6        17.4                 52.3       94.3        61
1/ One agronomist from the Project Monitoring Unit of UCCAO would complete consultant team.
2/ Short-term consultants



ANNEX 11
Page 1
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Smallholder Credit
1.        Cost of incremental input requirements are detailed at Table 2 in
constant 1977 prices. Together with physical contingencies and expected
price increases, total cost would amount to CFAF 1,049 million (US$4.1 mil-
lion) and would be financed by UCCAO (CFAF 345 million or US$1.4 million),
Government (CFAF 658 million or US$2.7 million), and farmers (CFAF 46 million
or US$0.2 million). Government funds would be channelled through FONADER
and the total represents the equivalent amount of incremental seasonal in-
puts which are at present financed nation-wide by the latter agency. On-
lending terms would be the same as those applicable to seasonal and medium-
term credit financed by FONADER elsewhere in the country. The ultimate
borrower - cooperative members - would pay interest at a rate equivalent to
9% per annum on all credit, of which 4% would go to FONADER, 2% towards a
mandatory national rural credit guarantee fund, and the rest retained in the
Revolving Credit Fund. UCCAO's contribution to the capitalization of the
Revolving Credit Fund would come from its own resources and represents the
expected credit requirements for farm implements and equipment. Medium-
term credit for such purposes to cooperative members would also bear inter-
est equivalent to 9% per annum, of which 2% would again be deducted for the
mandatory guarantee fund and the rest retained by the Revolving Credit Fund.
The spread thus earned by the Revolving Credit Fund would be adequate to
meet the cost of credit administration, to constitute a loan guarantee fund,
and to provide further resources to increase the future lending capacity of
the Revolving Credit Fund.
B. Cash Flows
2.        UCCAO.  A cash flow analysis for UCCAO, excluding credit operations,
is at Tables 3 and 4. The main assumptions are the following:
(a) Sales Revenues are based on f.o.b prices projected by the
Commodity Price Projections Division and on production
increases contained in Annex 3, Table 6;
(b) Production and Selling Costs are based on recent UCCAO
experience and the method used to calculate export taxes
is similar to that used by government authorities:



ANNEX 11
Page 2
(c) Working Capital is assumed to increase as a consequence
of higher sales; and
(d) Capital Expenditures for the development period and
subsequently exclude long term funds provided for the
Revolving Credit Fund.
Free reserves estimated at CFAF 6,900 million (US$28.2 million) at the begin-
ning of PY 1, and net operating cash flows would exceed cash expenditures
over the ten-year period PY 1 - PY 10 by CFAF 4,680 million (US$19.1 million).
3.        Government Cash Flow.  An analysis of Government expenditures and
receipts (except in respect of credit operations) is at Table 5 and is based
on the following assumptions:
(a)  Inflows consist of the IDA Credit; export taxes
and Stabilization Fund levies on incremental coffee produc-
tion calculated on the same basis as in Table 4; and excise
taxes on expenditures out of incremental farm incomes accru-
ing to coffee farmers.
(b) Outflows consist of project investments; operating costs and
equipment renewal outlays in the post-investment period; and
debt service on the IDA Credit.
The results are satisfactory.
C. Accounts and Audit
4.        Accounting systems and procedures in UCCAO and its constituent
cooperatives are adequate in recording the limited number of operations that
they now engage in. With the expansion in cooperative activities proposed
under the project, the existing system would need to be upgraded and stream-
lined. An Executive Controller would be provided under the project and would
be recruited internationally since a suitable candidate is not likely to be
found locally. The incumbent would be in post for four years and would be
responsible for: (a) reviewing and improving the present system of accounting
for arabica coffee production, collection, processing and marketing costs;
(b) establishing a separate system of accounting to record project related
expenditures; (c) supervising a procurement officer, who would be responsible
for ensuring that goods and services required for the proposed project are
obtained in the most efficient manner and in keeping with agreed procedures;
and (e) training local staff both at the medium and high levels. Auditing by
COOPMUT staff is inadequate. As the total turnover of UCCAO has risen rapidly
in recent years and would be further increased by project expenditures, UCCAO
would be required to appoint independent auditors familiar with auditing
procedures in commercial situations.



ANNEX 11
Table 1
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements (US$ 000)
PYl      PY2      PY3     PY4     PY5      Total
First Semester          500     1,500   1,800   1,900   1,600
Second Semester         500     1,500   1,800   1,900       -
Total                 1,000     3,000   3,600   3,800   1,600    13,000
Cumulative Total      1,000     4,000   7,600  11,4oo  13,000



CAMEROON                                                                         11
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                 Table 2
Revolving Credit Fund - On-Farm Inputs and Equinment
'CFAF Million)
Unit Cost                                                                      7 of                                   of
(CFAF)         PYI       PY2      PY3       PY4       Total      Taxes       Taxes       Local       Foreign       Foreign
A.  INCREMENTAL INPUT AND EQUIPMENT COSTS I
1. Seasonal Inputs
Fertilizer!  Cornound                65,000/t         152.1    155.3    148.9    148 9
Sulfate                60,000/t          69.6      71.4     69.0      69 0
Pesticides:  Anthracnose              1,720/kg         30.9      30.9     30.9      18.9
Others                  1,600/kg         32.0      32.0     32.0      32.0    _     _       _
Subtotal                                          284.6    289.6    280.8    268.8    1,123.8    112.4           10         337.1         786.7         70
2. Farm Equipment
Sprayers                             15,000 ea         22.5      23.1     22.5      45.0       113.1     11.3        10          45.2          67.9         60
Depulpers                            60,000 ea         60.0      60.0     60.0      60.0       240.0     24.0        10          96.0         144.0         60
Cribs                                13,000 ea         39.0      39.0     39.0      39.0       156.0     11.7          7.5       78.0         -78.0         50
Subtotal                                          121.5    122.1    121.5    144.0        509.1      47.0         9         219.2         289.9         57
TOTAL COST                                        406.1    411.7    402.3    412.8    1,632.9    159.4            9         556.3       1,076.6         66
B.  REPAYMENTS 2/
Compound 3/                                            -         91.7      93.7     89.8
Sulfate 3;                                             -         37.9      38.9     37.9
Pesticides 4/                                          -         68.5      68.5     68.5
Equinment 471                                          -         43.9      88.1    112.0
TOTAL                                                       242.0    289.2    308.2
C.  BALANCE  FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS                            406.1    169.7    113.1    104.6         793.5      71.4        9         270.2         522.9         66
Add PYI Fertilizer 5/                                 312.0
D. FINANCED BY
(a)  Government                                       718.1    157.5    100.9       92.4    .1068.9
- of which subsidies 6/                         (254.8)  (105.0)  ( 90.9)  (100 9)    (551 6)
(b)  Farmers 7/                                        -         12.2     12.2      12.2        36 6_
TOTAL                                             718.1    169.7    113.1    104.6        1105.5     99.5         9         375,9          729.6         66
1/ For quantities see Annex 3 , Table 2 in Technical Supplement. Cost are incurred in year prior to use.
2/  Seasonal credit repaid in full during coffee marketing season in year of use;  credit for equipment (equivalent to 907 of cost) repayable in 3 equal annual
irtatallments following year of acquisition.  Interest equivalent to 101 on both seasonal and medium term credit, bverall default rate estimated to stay
level at about 17 of amounts due.
3/ Fertilizer sales vould be at subsidized prices
4/ No credit sales in PYI or before.
5/ Based on estimated total use in PYI (CFAF 72 million for compound and CFAF 240 million for sulfate), amount required for initial capitalization.
6/ FYI subsidies include subsidies for fertilizers used in both PYI and PY2. amounts refer to incremernt over orevious year only.
7/  10% of cost of equipment sold on credit representing cash down-payments.'



CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UCCAO - Consolidated Cash Flow
(CFAF Million in Current Terms)
PY 0       PY I        PY 2        PY 3        PY 4        PY 5        PY 6        PY 7        PY 8         PY 9        PY 10
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Operating Cash Income  1/                                 3,154       3,066       3,116       2,895       2,775       2,607       1,973       1,586       1,105           599
Less   Legal Reserve Deductions 1/                         (631)       (587)       (593)       (543)       (509)       (466)       (325)       (233)        (120)         (13)
Bonus Payments  1/                                (1,070)     (1,145)    (1,216)      (1,290)    (1,365)    (l-j438)    (1,501)    (1,645)        (1,830)      (1,830)
Credit Management Fee  2                                      5           5           5           6           6           7           7           8           8             9
Net Sources                                               1,458       1,339       1,312       1,068         907         710         154         (284)       (837)      (1,235)
APPLICATIONS
Capital Expenditures - Project  3/                          506         382         279         125         -                       -           -           -
Capital Expenditures - Other  4/                            -           500         400         100         500         500         500         500         500           500
Increase in Working Capital  57                             100         155         139         143         135         106          67         280         360            35
Total Applications                                          606       1,037         818          368        635         606         567         780          860          535
NET CASH FLOW                                               852          302        494         700         272          104        (413)    (1,064)      (1,697)      (1,770)
CUMULATIVE CASH FLOW                           6,900  6/ 7,752        8,054       8,548       9,248       9,520       9,624       9,211       8,147       6,450         4,680
>
1/    Table 4.                                                                                                                                                                      x
21    At the rate of 1% of credit sales.
3/    Project investments financed by UCCAO - viz. service centers and industrial investments.
4/    Equipment renewal relating to CSC and processing operations plus capital expenditures planned by UCCAO but not included in project - viz. increase in
warehouse space, expansion of office space and housing for management staff.
5/    Based on increase in value of sales.
6/    Available reserves at beginning of project investment period.



ANNEX 11
CANEROON                                                                 Table 4
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UCCAO - Projection of Income and Expenditures
(CFAF Millions in Current Terms)
Py 1        PY 2         PY 3         PY 4         PY 5         PY 6         PY 7         PY 8         PY 9         PY 10
PRODUCTION (t)  1/                        15,290      16,360       17,380       18,450       19,480       20,540       21,450       23,520       26,150       26,150
SALES (t) 2/                              13,761      16,258       17,278       18,343       19,377       20,434       21,359       23,313       25,887       26,150
SALES REVENUE  3/                         11,421      12,145       12,803       13,482       14,126       14,631       14,950       16,272       17,991       18,174
EXPENDITURES
Production Costs
Purchase  4/                          4,067        4,569        5,092        5,683        6,292        6,963        7,636       8,796       10,277       10,774
Collection  5/                          413          458          521          572          643          698          772          894        1,046        1,098
Processing  5/                          176          198          221          247          273          303          332          382          446          468
Sorting and Grading 5/                  214          240          268          299          331          367          402          463          541          568
Selling Costs
Taxes 6/                              1,439        1,534        1,519        1,566        1,560        1,328        1,388        1,515        1,682        1,700
Caisstab Levy  7/                     1,376        1,382        1,295        1,378        1,356        1,430        1,495        1,631        1,812        1,830
Transport and Transit  8/               303          376          420          468          519          574          630          723          844          894
Brokerage Commission   9/                 72          76           81           85           89           92           94          102          113          114
Overhead  10/                            303         376          420          468          519          545          572          601          631          662
Total                                 8,363        9,209        9,837       10,768       11,582       12,300       13,321       15,107       17,392       18,108
NET INCOME                                 3,058        2,936       2,966        2,714        2,544        2,331        1,629        1,165          599           66
Add  Non-cash charges  11/                  96          130          150         181          231          276          344          421          506          533
OPERATING CASH INCOME                      3,154        3,066       3,116        2,895        2,775        2,607        1,973        1,586        1,105          599
Less  Legal Reserves 12/                   631          587         593          543          509          466          325          233          120           13
Bonus  13/                        1,070        1,145        l,16         1,290        1,365       1,438        1,501        1,645        1,830        1,830
AVAILIABLE RESERVES                        1,453        1,334       1,307        1,062          901          703          147          292         (845)      (1,244)
1/     (Annex 3, Table 6).
2/     107. of previous years' production, carried over as stock, plus 90% of production in current year.
S      FOB Douala; based on IBRD Projections (Annex 9, Table 5).
4/     PY 0 effective price excluding ristourne increased at 57b p.a.
5/     UCCAO recent experience adjusted for inflation.
6/     Based on 42, of f.o.b. value less production costs (including ristourne) and marketing costs (except export tax).  This approximates the method used
in calculating the Valeur Mercuriale on which tax rates (40%-42b) are based. However, after BY 5, tax take per unit exported is assumed to remain
at a constant CFAF 65/kg with the valeur mercuriale or tax rate being adjusted as necessary.
7/     Actual 1977 CFAF 100/kg falling gradually to CFAF 70/kg by PY 5 and remaining level.
8/     Actual 1977 results adjusted for inflation (5Z p.a.).
9/     Contractual; about 0.63% of FOB.
10/     Based on UCCAO 1977 results.  Average cost remains level in real terms until PY 5; thereafter total increases only at 5% p.a.
11/     Estimate of depreciation based on recent experience and planned investments.
12/     207% of Net Income.
13/     CFAF 70/kg in PY 1 to PY 10.



CANEROON                                                      ANNEX Il
Table ,
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government Cash Flow
(CFAF Million in Current Terms)
PY 1     PY 2      PY 3      PY 4      PY 5     PY 6      PY 7      PY 8      PY 9      PY 10
INFLOWS
Export and Other Taxes  1/                         -         100       182       268      302       310       379       379       420       425
Caisstab Cess 2/                                   -          90       155       236       262      334       408       408       453       457
Expenditure Taxes  3/                              -          24        48        72        87      117       149       157       183       192
IDA Credit Disbursement                           664        755       719       715      211                                _
Total Inflows                                     664        969    1,104    1,291         862      761       93Y       944    1,056    1,074
OUTFLOWS
Project Development Costs  4/                   1,053        747       820       781
Post-Project Administration  5/                                                            781      820       862       905       950       997
Total Outflows                                  1,053        747       820       781       781      820       862       905       950       997
Cash Flow before Debt Service                     (389)      222       284       510        81       (59)      74        39       106        77
Debt Service 6/
IDA Service Charge                                5         11        16        21       23        23        23        23        23        23
NET CASH FLOW                                       (394)      211       268       489        58       (82)      51        16        83        54
CUMULATIVE CASH FLOW                                (394)     (183)       85       574       632      550       601       617       700       754
1/    On incremental coffee production, see Table 4, footnote 1.
2/    On incremental coffee production, see Table 4.
3/    On incremental cash income of coffee farmers; 70% of such farmers' earnings are assumed to be spent and tax is estimated at 9.7%.
4/    Excluding Revolving Credit Fund and items financed by cooperatives.
5/    Operating and Personnel Costs of traditional services financed through UCCAO during investment period; includes all project items
except Revolving Credit Fund, CSC and operating costs of industrial investments (compounded at 5% after investment period).
6/    On IDA credit.






ANNEX 12
CAMEROON
WESTERN HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
1.        Rates of return have been calculated using December 1977 constant
prices and on the basis of the following assumptions:
(a) project life of 15 years;
(b) an exchange rate of CFAF 245 = US$1.00;
(c) project costs include all investment and operating
base costs plus physical contingencies, but provisions
for expected price increases are excluded;
(d) annual farm inputs are valued at current farmgate
prices, with the exception of fertilizer costed
at the import substitution price based on Bank's
projections; family labor has been costed at the
prevailing agricultural wage rate of CFAF 350 per
working day;
(e) incremental crop production and value of production are
shown in Table 1. The Bank's world market price fore-
casts have been used to estimate import substitution --
maize and rice -- and export -- coffee -- prices; farm-
gate prices have been used for other crops;
(f) economic costs of and benefits from the 245 km of roads
to be improved in the West Province by the Ministry of
Equipment and Housing have been included based on calcula-
tions made in the Appraisal of a Feeder Roads Project,
Report No. 1668CM, dated August 26, 1977;
(g) net benefits from the bottomland development component
-are detailed in Annex 7 Table 9.
2.        Based on these assumptions, the economic rate of return would be
20%.
3.        Sensitivity Analysis.  The sensitivity of the project's rates
or return has been listed against alternative changes in costs and benefits
and results are as follows:



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Economic Rate of Return - Sensitivity Analysis
Feeder Road   Economic Rate
Project Cost    Feeder Roads Cost    Project Benefits    Benefits           of Return
100                 100                 100               100              20.2
120                 120                  Bo                8o             ::.2
120                 100                 100               100              15.6
100                 100                  80               100              13.4
100                 100              SLIPI 1/             100              15.7
100                 100              SLIPI 2/             100              14.7
1/ Benefits delayed by 1 year
2/ Benefits delayed by 1 year and coffee price reduced by 20%.



cugop
WhSTERN RIGHlAFDS RURAL DEVtWPMENT PROJECr
Incramental Net Vslue of Production
(CFAF Million, December 1977 conctant term.)
Value of                Production                Family tlor               Net Value
Production 11           Coct 21                   ro      -                 of Production                       Bottoeland Development  4,    Ineremental
P        wO           W           wo          w            wo                  w     wo           v                      Net Value of Production -    Net Value of Production
I                    -                                                                 
2       2,418        3.429         990       1.365          805        1,015          623        1.049                              14                            427 4
3       4,223        6,074       1.350       2.105        1,610        2,065        1,260        1.904                              9.4                           653 4
4       6,606        9,522       1,841        2,978        2,415       3.080        2,350        3,464                             34 9                         1.148 9
5       8,630       12,134       2,400       3,895         3.220       4,095        3.010        4,144                             75,0                         1,209 0
6      10.631       15,251       2,885       4.790        4,130        5,180        3,616        5,281                             84.3                         1.749 3
7      12,573       17,840       3,422       5.754        5,005        6,300        4,1 4        5.786                             98.9                         1,738 9
8      14,425       20,116       3,748       6,436        5,880        7.420        4,797        6 260                             98.9        *                1,561 9
9-14   16,142       22,532 5    4,382        7,399        6,545        8,225        5,215        6,908                             98 9                         1.791 9
15      16,142       22,866 -    4,382        7,399        6,545        8,225        5,215        7,242                             98.9                         2.125 9
1/ Production (t) Annex 3 Table 6 ; economic ferugete prices 1979180 to 1984/85 a folloe (CIAN*S): arabic& coffee 507 to 315: maise 34- beana 85' groundnut. 62 to 79
macabu, taro, yam and cesseva 15; potatoes 35; banana and plantain 12: vegetables 58 end rice 50
21  Input, coat. 1979/80 to 1984185 as follows (cFA/t): )      ulphate of  omnnia 34,700 to 38.900- 20 10 10, 50,875 to 57,000' pesticides 1,550 (for anthrocuose) and 1.440
(for others)  Depulpere CFAF 54,000 per unitt  knapsock sprayers CFA)  13,500 per unit and eiiba CFAF 12.025 each   Input cuentities as detailed In the farm budgets (Annex 3, Tsblea 7-lQ)
31 Form labor coated at the oettm-tud oepoztunity coat ef rural labor in the project area ulo   CIAPFJan-day
4_  Anner 7 Table 5
51  Includes CFlA  334 million as aelvage value of project vehicles and equipe nt



CAMBROCNi
WESTERN HIGRLANDS RURAL DFVEIOMENT PROJ2Cr
Net Yconomic Benefits
(CfAi  Million  December 1977 constant ter_w)
Proiect Cgsts                                   Inere-                                                     der Reeds
vehiclos &   Operating   tLocal                                          nsntal           Net                    Incremental    Inceromntal   Net Incremental
pY     Civil Worke   Equipment         Costs      Personnel  Expatriates   Other    Total   Product0on   Project                           Costs         Benefits          Benefits
_ __________                               _________                                    Value   -      Benefits                                                      _
1         490            484            83           72          122          33      1,284         .        (1.264)                       511               15             (496)
2         381             79           149          125          116          54        904        427         (477)                       581               47             (534)
3         204             45           176          157          136         100        814        653          (161)                      424               78             (346)
4           86            19           199          164           62          91        621      1,149           528                       423              108             (315)
5          -             428           199          164           -           -         791      1,209          418                         79              127               48
6           -             79           199          164           -                     442      1,749        1,307                         79              127                48
7          -              45           19           164           -           -         408      1,739        1,331                         79              127               68
a          -              19           19           164 "                     -         382      1,562        1,180                         79              127               48
9          -            484            199.         164           -           -         847      1,792          945                         79              127               48
10           -            135           19           164           -            -        498      1,792        1,294                         79              127                48
11           -             45           1"           164            -           -        408      1,792        1,384                         79              127                48
12           -             19           1"           164           -           -         382      1,792        1 410                         79              127               48
13           -            484           19           164           -           -         847      1.792           945                        79              127                48
14           -             79           199          164           -            -        642      1.792        1.350                         79              127               48
.15            -             45           1            164            -           -        408      2 126         1 718                        79              127                48
l, Annex 12 Table I
21 Appraisal of a Feoder Roadc Project  Report Wo  1668-C0  coats edd benefits rofer to the 245 km in the Western Highlands program



IBRD 13072
050                                             6%O  lO0S.                     ~~~CAME ROON                                                                       lO                   ETME  9
KILOMETERS,: 20'I                                                                   Western Highlands Rural Development Project                                                                                           4
0  20  30                                                              ~~~~~~~~WESTERN  PROVINCEC
-~~~~~~ ~ ~        6'005                                                    DELIMITATION OF PROJECT AREAK
-Project ores aiccording to administrative boundaries
Physical project area                                                                                         .4.
-Provincial boundaries                                                    ~'
-.   Departmental boundariesC
-    O -Dstrict lArrondissementl boundaries
------Chief-dom (Chefferie) boundaries 
El    Province headquarters
*     Prefecture neadquarters2
o     Subprefecture headquarters7
slte: Che-o,budre  h.  only is project area                         r-.~ ~ *                   >~Magb*J"
0  o      2 0       30        5 
KILOMLTERS'I                          I                                 i\                                                           -'
ama'        ~~~MILES,                            
o             10o            210            55.      ,                                                   -.-
WESTERN PROVINCE                        MAIN SOILS GROUPS                                                                                                                                V  tsbN'\Mansunr
Physical project area                  Brown soils                                                     /r                0GaI           ,         /L,.t)7
boundary                     ~~~~~Black deposition soils                           : ..         -     ~     
-  ~-Proincialboundaries                                                                                          Mod 
F    Province headquarters                                 ol                                                                              5' 
Riners               f~~~~~~Red  ferralitic soils/
Reworked ferralitic soils           j                    .C -                                          d      Fuoo 
uton.=-                                                                            j1             Dslchang   I     6-       .R8AFOUSSAMy                                                                      N      .
J-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~,   '-*9
g                                                                                    O~~~~~~~~~N   tr  Company d
Keem            ant ogangte                           -./
~~~MPJIE              ''. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Petit Dibourn3~o
-5'00'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                                                                          '0
1500'J






IBRD 13073
V                                               Western Highlans CAMEROON   030                                                                       11000                 2         6030
Western HighlaEndsRural Development Project
POPULTIONWESTERN PROVINCE
POPULATION DENSITY AND MAIN ETHNIC GROUPS
BAMILEKE - 100 Inhabitants
BAMILEKE - 1000 Inhabitants
BAMOUN - 100 Inhabitants
A      BAMOUN - 1000 Inhabitants
ff      OTHER INHABITANTS                                                   _ IHBTN
7.30      URBAN POPULATION IN THOUSANDS OF INHABITANTS
.J    i  -    PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                                                            _
S a' -  -    DEPARTMENTAL BOUNDARIES I
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
, PROVINCE  v*                                               PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
,YAOUNDE                  *                       PREFECTURE HEADQUARTERS                                      - r    * 
Enkem    OTHER CITIES AND TOWNS                                    r                          n->        /\                   A
ROADS
5   t        201       31       40                      I(                                                       n
/~~~~~~~oLQ                           KILOMETERt'                  I   2p  30       40                                                                      5.                t A^
MILESi                                                           .                                                  l.
I _ 0         to             20             30             >>                            Ae                         ----4r' rl X t SS _ 20  
'R   A           A~~~AE~2
This map has been prepared by the                                      |                        .                           t*                       A
World Bank's staff eclusively for                                                                                  _                         AA .       a       /_
the convmenceofthereaders of                                                                        ,rr
the report to which it/is attached.  .                                                                               an-.       0                                  .0
The denominations used and the        A.                                                                              A   >Azi                                     A4
boundaries shown on this map                                                                                         4. * /             .s'          2 A 
do not imply, on the pan of the                                            8.  r87-,,                             . b,*
World Bankand its affiliates, any                                                                                                                 o Toamaka  at ,. r  umban  4
judgment on the legal statss of                                     Toumaka~7~ .a. 
any territoryoranyendorsement                                                    tMba,s,                                                         t
oracceptance of such boundeares.                                                                                                                     A.- (\i
7-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   5
.1        . oA ngSt
_5'yr\sM <030'
500~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
&            -)                                                     4 9  \g?-//h) $   2   R a    %    < t   _' !   t                   /
-5100                                                                                                                                                                                  5  s0?0---
5 1 CO                                             100t                                                                                                    11000
930'                      J      g     /         101t)00                    r                          t       -                    +>                   11I0                 SEPTEEMER 1977






IBRD 13208
NOVEMBER 19/7
CAMEROON
*    Existing Cooperative Stores                               VV WESTERN   HIGHLANDS                                 Eocen
Upgraded to Service Centers                              W
New Sites for Service Centers                    RURAL  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
X    Chief Town of Province
E     Chief Town of Division                           Feeder Roads and Proposed Service Centers
63   Chief Town of Svbdivision
o    Chief Town of District )
*    Villages
Main Roads                                                                                                                                 E NNoa  u  Matop[t
Feeder Roads
~- -- ---  Rivers
KILOMETERSFO BA
MILES
4    5                                                   MBUD ls 2    -< -     /($                                                                                    OMA
NS       K Nzindengl,f
J        <    8           ~~~~~~~~~~~BATCHA) 13          aom:S           >    ~    \.</~
U~ ~ ~ )t'n                                      <                                                                                                        c c cc,c \  ri/ Pe3ger  _
/        Rc                                                     Duoegn nBC^       -                                                                      $c.cccr$ ,    cr |c$- ccrcp
(/g-    C                       ',    r    BcIkb   c  .n                                                                   i hlP    r -.E
)    ..........C EaL     AF-PBrOUSAM
F 0X    .ng 'aN;d.l ,-    r  
Fvrisv Ndcce~   ' U  ~                                                                                                                        ,,ricr$cr cc rv~iBAer crc5c
.    .  .  ...     ........  ..i.., ..  .c ...     ...rc.
h-  ANDJOUN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Batie                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHAD
Scintclh'v-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, RvOM  v
BOMANY A                                          ANANT
/CUAREA OF  AP N    OG



