CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 784 CM
Project Agreement
(Western Highlands Rural
Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
UNION DES COOPERATIVES DE CAFE
ARABICA DE L'OUEST
Dated April 17, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 784 CM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 17, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
UNION DES COOPERATIVES DE CAFE ARABICA DE L'OUEST (hereinafter
called UCCAO).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between United Republic of Cameroon (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirteen million dollars ($13,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that UCCAO agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS UCCAO, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
term "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or
effectively controlled by UCCAO or by any one or more subsidiaries
of UCCAO or by UCCAO and one or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) UCCAO shall carry out Parts A through G (i)
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement or cause said Parts of the Project to be carried out
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, economic, agricultural and
engineering practices.


﻿-2-
(b) In order to carry out its obligations pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this Section and without any limitation or
restriction upon such obligations, UCCAO shall:
(i) provide, out of its own financial resources,
(A) an aggregate amount of not less than one
billion three hundred fifty million CFA francs
(CFAFl,350,000,000) for the carrying out of Parts B
and D of the Project, and (B) an aggregate amount
of not less than three hundred nineteen million CFA
francs (CFAF319,000,000) for the Revolving Credit
Fund to be established pursuant to Section 2.08 of
this Agreement for purposes of Part C of the
Project; and
(ii) enter into Project execution arrangements satis-
factory to the Association: (A) with the Borrower's
Office National de la Recherche Scientifigue et
Technique (ONAREST), for the carrying out of Part A
(iii) of the Project by the Institut de Recherches
Agricoles et Forestieres (IRAF); and (B) with
Genie Rural, for the carrying out of the civil
works under Parts E and F of the Project by the
services of Genie Rural in the Western Province.
(c) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
Project execution arrangements to be entered into by UCCAO
pursuant to paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section shall be made not
later than December 31, 1978, and shall provide inter alia:
(i) for the establishment of special operational
units with separate accounts and budgets by the
agencies and services of the Borrower concerned in
order to carry out their respective obligations
under the Project;
(ii) for the preparation and presentation to UCCAO for
approval of annual work programs and budgets in
respect of the activities to be carried out by
such units under the Project;
(iii) for UCCAO to make available to the agencies and
services of the Borrower concerned the funds
required to enable the units referred to in


﻿- 3 -
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph to carry out
their respective obligations under the Project;
(iv) for procurement by UCCAO of all goods and services
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower, and for UCCAO
to make available such goods and services to the
agencies and services of the Borrower concerned as
and to the extent required to enable the units
referred to in subparagraph (i) of this paragraph
to carry out their respective obligations under the
Project; and
(v) for the right of UCCAO to audit, or arrange for the
audit of, the accounts of the units referred to in
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph and to control
the use by such units of the resources made avail-
able to the agencies and services of the Borrower
concerned for the purposes of carrying out the
Project.
(d) For the purpose of carrying out Parts A, E, F and G (i)
of the Project, UCCAO shall open not later than September 1, 1978,
and maintain until completion of the Project, in a banking insti-
tution and under arrangements satisfactory to the Association,
a Project Advance Account to be used exclusively by UCCAO for
meeting expenditures under said Parts of the Project.
Section 2.02. In order to secure assistance in carrying
out Parts A through G (i) of the Project, UCCAO shall employ
specialists whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association for
the positions of: (i) Director of the Production Department; (ii)
chief of extension and demonstration services, serving as deputy
of the Director of the Production Department; (iii) chief of seed
production services; (iv) chief of training services; (v) chief of
the demonstration unit to be established under Part A (i) of the
Project within UCCAO's extension and demonstration services; and
(vi) financial controller.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. (a) UCCAO undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by UCCAO to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, UCCAO
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for Parts A through G (i) of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) UCCAO shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction, work and procure-
ment schedules for Parts A through G (i) of the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) UCCAO: (i) shall maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A through G (i)
of the Project (including their cost and the benefits to be
derived from them), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower, and to disclose their use in said Parts of the Project;
(ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(d) of this Section, enable the Association's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in said Parts
of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of such
proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request concerning said
Parts of the Project, their cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from them, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit so made available to it and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of Parts A through G (i) of
the Project, but in any event not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Association and UCCAO, UCCAO shall prepare and furnish
to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of said Parts of the Project, their cost and


﻿-5-
the benefits derived and to be derived from them, the performance
by the Association and UCCAO of their respective obligations
under the Project Agreement, the performance by the agencies and
services of the Borrower referred to in Section 2.01 (b) (ii) of
this Agreement of their respective obligations for the execution
of said Parts of the Project, and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
(d) UCCAO shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of UCCAO and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. (a) UCCAO shall, at the request of the Associ-
ation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts A through G (i) of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relat-
ing to the purposes of the Credit, and shall concurrently inform
the Borrower of such exchanges of view.
(b) UCCAO shall promptly inform the Borrower and the
Association of any condition which interferes, or threatens to
interfere with, the progress of Parts A through G (i) of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by UCCAO of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.07. UCCAO shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to obtain, as and when needed, all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction and
operation of the facilities included in Parts A through G (i) of
the Project and shall furnish to the Association, at its request,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights
in respect of land are available for purposes related to said
Parts of the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) In order to carry out Part C of the
Project, UCCAO shall establish, operate and maintain a Revolving
Credit Fund with the funds referred to in Section 2.01 (b) (i) (B)
of this Agreement and those made available to UCCAO pursuant to
Section 3.02 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement.
(b) UCCAO shall ensure that any credit for agricultural
inputs and equipment made available to members of UCCAO member
cooperatives under Part C of the Project shall bear interest at a
rate of not less than nine per cent (9%) per annum.


﻿-6-
(c) UCCAO shall deposit the amounts received on account of
the repayment of credit under Part C of the Project in the Revolv-
ing Credit Fund in order to finance further credit operations
under said Part of the Project.
Section 2.09. UCCAO shall make available the bottomlands
developed under Part F of the Project to farmers pursuant to con-
tracts substantially in accordance with a model form of contract
satisfactory to the Association and providing, inter alia, for
recovery of the investment and maintenance costs of the works
carried out under said Part of the Project in accordance with the
provisions of Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of UCCAO
Section 3.01. (a) UCCAO shall at all times carry on its
operations, manage its affairs, plan the future development of its
business and maintain its financial position in accordance with
appropriate agricultural, commercial, economic, financial and
administrative practices, and under an experienced and qualified
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b) Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a) of
this Section, UCCAO shall operate and maintain its equipment and
facilities and make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof in
accordance with appropriate agricultural and management practices.
Section 3.02. UCCAO shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. UCCAO shall at all times take all steps neces-
sary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on its
operations, including the Parts of the Project for which it is
responsible, and shall take all steps necessary to acquire and
to retain such land, interests in land and properties, and to
acquire, maintain and renew such licenses, consents, franchises
or other rights, as may be necessary or useful for the execution
and operation of said Parts of the Project and the conduct of its
business.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.04. (a) Before UCCAO shall take any action to
establish or acquire any subsidiary, UCCAO shall first satisfy the
Association that such action would not affect materially and
adversely the operations and financial position of UCCAO.
(b) If UCCAO establishes or acquires any subsidiary, UCCAO
shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations
of UCCAO under this Agreement to the extent to which such obliga-
tions shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such obliga-
tions were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 3.05. Not later than six months after the date of
this Agreement, UCCAO shall furnish to the Association, for review
and concurrence by the Association, a program for the training of
UCCAO management staff in order to replace expatriate personnel.
Section 3.06. Not later than June 30, 1982, UCCA0 shall
review the operations and organization of its seed production unit
in order to determine the feasibility of converting it into an
autonomous commercial enterprise and furnish the results of such
review to the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) UCCAO shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures for Parts A through G (i) of the
Project.
(b) UCCAO shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures for Parts A through G (i)
of the Project on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures,
and shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine such records.
Section 4.02. UCCAO shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (f lance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)


﻿-8-
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year: (i) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation
to the foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors: (A) on the
separate Project accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this
Agreement; and (B) in respect of the expenditures and records
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to whether
the proceeds of the Credit made available to UCCAO and withdrawn
from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
tures have been used for the purpose for which they were provided;
and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of UCCAO and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of UCCAO thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date fifteen years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)


﻿- 9 -
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify UCCAO
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   .248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For UCCAO:
Union des Cooperatives de
Cafe Arabica de l'Ouest
B.P. 1002
Bafoussam
United Republic of Cameroon


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
UCCAO                               5343 KN
Bafoussam
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of UCCAO may be taken or executed by the
Directeur General of UCCAO or such other person or persons as the
Directeur Gfneral shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. UCCAO shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of UCCAO,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by UCCAO pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice' President
Western Africa
UNION DES COOPERATIVES DE CAFE ARABICA
DE L'OUEST
By
Authorized Representative


