Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H474-CF 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Economic Management and Governance Reform Grant) 
 
between 
 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 9, 2009 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER 474-CF 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated April 9, 2009, entered into between CENTRAL AFRICAN 
REPUBLIC (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association” or “IDA”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) under the IDA-Financial Crisis Response Fast Track 
Facility established by the Executive Directors of the Association by Resolution of December 9, 
2008.  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the 
actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate 
macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to three million four 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,400,000) 
(“Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the Euro. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would 
have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any 
action taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for 
international cooperation. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Minister of State, for Planning, Economy and International Cooperation 
Ministry of Planning, Economy and International Cooperation 
Bangui 
Central African Republic 
Facsimile: 
236-21-61-96-89 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
  248423(MCI) 
  1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Bangui, Central African Republic, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 
 
By 
    /s/ 
Sylvain 
Maliko 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By 
    /s/ 
Jelena 
Pantelic 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
(A) 
To improve efficiency of t
he Recipient’s public financial management 
a)  By decision of its Minister responsible for finance 
No. 004/MFB/DIR.CAB/DGTCP/DGCPR/CTRSC.09, dated January 15, 2009, 
the Recipient has adopted a revised and more comprehensive accounting 
nomenclature in line with the OHADA standards; 
b)  By decision of its Minister responsible for finance 
No. 005/MFB/DIR.CAB/DGB.09 dated January 15, 2009, the Recipient has 
increased the budget allocation for the Court of Accounts by at least 100% 
between 2008 and 2009, and designated the President of the Court of Accounts as 
budget administrator; 
c) 
By letters dated December 15, 2008 from its Minister responsible for finance, 
addressed to CBCA, ECOBANK and BPMC respectively, each a commercial 
bank established on the Recipient’s territory, the Recipient has requested that 
fifty-two Government accounts held in commercial banks be closed immediately 
and that the balance of said accounts be transferred to a designated treasury 
account at the Recipient’s central bank; 
d) 
6,350 new taxpayers have been registered in the master file of the Recipient’s tax 
and customs database and assigned an identification number, as confirmed by a 
report from its Deputy General Director for Taxes and Customs to the 
Recipient’s Delegated Minister for Finance and Budget dated February 12, 2009; 
e) 
By Decision of its Minister responsible for finance No. 016-
2009/MFB/MDMRF/DR|IR.CAB/DAJ dated February 5, 2009, the Recipient has 
instructed the General Director for Customs and Indirect Taxes, the General 
Director for Taxes and Domains, and the Director for Information Systems, each 
within its Ministry responsible for finance, to provide systematic feedback on 
exemption conventions signed by the Recipient to the Inter-ministerial 
Committee in Charge of Tax and Customs Duty Exemptions (CICEFD) 
established by the Recipient’s Decree No. 07.380 dated December, 27 2007 and 
to give CICEFD full access to ASYCUDA (for customs) and SYSTEMIF (in the 
tax directorate) databases;  
Page  7
6
(B) 
To strengthen public sector and economic governance 
f) 
By Decree No. 09.044 of February 12, 2009, the Recipient has adopted the 
General Conditions of Contract related to procurement by the Recipient and other 
public entities; 
g) 
By Decree No. 09.022 of January 19, 2009, the Recipient has designated the 
members of the Permanent Secretariat of the Regulatory Procurement Agency 
established by Decree No. 08-335 of September 20, 2008, and by Decision 
No. 001/PM/ARMP/CRD.09 of February 11, 2009 from the President of the 
Recipient’s Bidders complaint unit (
Comité de Règlement des Différends), 
established by Law No. 08.017 of June 6, 2008, the Recipient has designated the 
members of the Bidders complaint unit; 
h) 
By Decree No. 08.454 of December 8, 2008, the Recipient has suspended the 
issuance of new mining licenses until the 
Recipient’s adoption of a new mining 
Code; and 
i) 
By decision from its Minister responsible for forests dated December 18, 2008, 
the Recipient has instructed the authorities of each forest commune on the 
Recipient’s territory to disclose information pertaining to the forestry revenue 
sharing mechanisms between the Recipient and the communities and the amount 
from local taxes paid by forestry operators accruing to communities. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
3,400,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
3,400,000 
Page  8
7
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the Association into a 
dedicated account or accounts designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing into any 
such
 account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the dedicated accounts referred to in paragraph (C)(1) above audited by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months 
after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; 
and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the dedicated accounts 
referred to in paragraph (C)(1) and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is March 1, 2010. 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
Section I. Definitions 
1. 
“ASYCUDA” means the Recipient’s computerized information system for customs. 
2. 
“CFA Franc” means the currency of the African Financial Community. 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and w
atch cases) and 
Page  10
9
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
5. 
“OHADA” means the Organization for the Harmonization of Business Law in Africa, an 
international organization established among its member states by Treaty of 
October 17, 1993. 
6. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated February 20, 2009 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
7. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
8. 
“SYSTEMIF” means the Recipient’s computerized information system for taxes. 
Page  11
10
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the 
“International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or the Bank 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount 
required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the 
date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and 
unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay 
the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
Page  12
11
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
(a) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and its 
definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.”
 
