                                         Documentof
                                       The World Bank

                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                                        ReportNo. 47559-CF



                    INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                        PROGRAMDOCUMENT FORA PROPOSED

      ECONOMIC MANAGEMENTAND GOVERNANCE REFORMGRANT I1

                           INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR3.4 MILLION

                               (US$5 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                              CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC




                                         March9,2009




PovertyReductionandEconomic Management3
Country DepartmentAFCC1
AfricaRegion




This document has a restricteddistributionand may be used by recipientsonly inthe performanceof their
officialduties. Its contents may nototherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bankauthorization.

                THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC

                         GOVERNMENTFISCALYEAR
                            January 1-December 31

                          CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
               (Exchange Rate Effective as o f January 31,2009)

                     Currency Unit
                        US$l.OO             494.1668 CFAF
                         1SDR                 1.51123 USD

                             Weights and Measures
                                 Metric System


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA       Analytical and Advisory Activities
ADB       African Development Bank
AFD       FrenchDevelopment Agency (Agence FranGaise de Dkveloppement)
AFLEG     Africa Forest Law Enforcement and Governance
AFRITAC   Africa Regional Technical Assistance Centers
ANIF      NationalFinancial Investigation Agency
          (Agence Nationale d 'Investigation FinanciBre)
ARMP      Agence de RCgulation de MarchCs Publics
ASYCUDA   Automated System for Customs Data
BEAC      The Bank o fCentral African States (Banquedes Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale)
BIVAC     Veritas Office (Bureau Veritas)
BONUCA    UnitedNations Peace-building Office inthe Central African Republic
          (Bureau d'appui des Nations h i e s pour la consolidation de lapaix en
          Ripublique Centrafricaine)
CAR       Central African Republic
CAREP     Central Africa Regional Environmental Program
CAS DF    ForestryFund
CASA      Conflict Affected State inAfrica
CBCA      CommercialBank inCentral Africa
CEA       Country EnvironmentalAssessment
CEMAC     Central African Economic and Monetary Community
          (Communaute' Economique Mone'taire de 1'Afiique Centrale)
CEMIFI    Financial interventionunit
          (Cellule Mixte d 'Intervention FinanciBre)
CFAA      Country FinancialAccountability Assessment
CICEFD    Inter-ministerialCommittee incharge o f Tax and Customs DutyExemptions
          (Comite Interministeriel Charge des Exonerations et Douanieres)
CFAF      Financial Community o f Africa Franc
          (Franc de la Communautk FinanciBre de 1'Afrique)
COSUFIBA  Donors'Supervision Committee o f Public Finance Reform
          (Comite de Suivi des Finances des Bailleurs)
CPIP      Country Procurement Issues Paper

                                                                               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

        CPS                Country Partnership Strategy
        CRC                Comiti de Riflexion sur la Corruption
        CSR                Country Status Report
        CTP-PAS            Technical Committee for Structural Adjustment Programs
                           (Comiti TechniquePermanent du Programme d 'AjustementStructurel)
        DCPES              Economic and Social Policy Framework
                           (Document Cadre de Politique Economique et Sociale)
        DDR                Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration
        DEMPA              Debt Management Performance Assessment
        DGM                Directorate o f Procurement (Direction Gdnirale de Marchis)
        DPO                Development Policy Operation
        DPT                Diphteria, Tetanus Toxoids, and Pertussis
        DRC                Democratic Republic o f Congo
        DSA                Debt Sustainability Analysis
        DTIS               Diagnostic Trade Integration Study
        EC                 European Commission
         ECOFAC            Central Africa Forest Ecosystems
                           (Ecosystemes Forestiers enAfrique Centrale)
         EGEMAS            Enhancing Governance and Economic Management Systems
         EIB               European Investment Bank
         EITI              Extractive IndustriesTransparency Initiative
         EMGRG             Economic Management and Governance Reform Grant
         ENERCA            Central African Energy Corporation (Energie Centrafricaine)
         EPCA              Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance
         ESPF              Economic and Social Policy Framework
         ERSP              Economic Report Support Program
         EU                EuropeanUnion
         FACA              National Defense Forces (ForcesArmies Centrafricaines)
         FAD               Fiscal Affairs Department(at the IMF)
         FHMP              Forest Harvestingand Management Plans
         FLEGT             Forest Law EnforcementGovernance and Trade
         FOMUC             MultinationalForce o f CEMAC (ForceMultinationale en Centrafrique)
         GoCAR             Government o f the Central African Republic
         GDP               Gross Domestic Product
         GFRP              Global Food Crisis Response Program
         GIF               Geographic Information System
         GREBUC             Working Group for Budgetand Accounting Reforms
                            (Groupe de Riflexion sur les Reformes Budgitaires et Comptables)
         GTZ                German Agency for Technical Cooperation
                            (Deutsche Gesellschaftfu'r TechnischeZusammenarbeit)
         HIPC               HighlyIndebtedPoor Countries
         HIV/AIDS           Human Immunodeficiency Virus/ Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
         I C                Inter-ministerialCommittee
         ICR                Implementation Completion Report
          ICT               InformationCommunication Technology
          IDA               International Development Association
          IEG               Independent EvaluationGroup
          IFAM              Integrated Financialand Administrative Management
          IFC               International Finance Corporation


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

IF1        International FinancialInstitution
IFMIS      Integrated FinancialManagement Information System
IMF        International Monetary Fund
ITTO       International Tropical Timber Organization
IGE        General Inspectorate o f the State
           (Inspection Generale de I'Etat)
IGF        General Inspectorateo f Finance
           (Inspection Generaledes Finances)
JISN       Joint Interim Strategy Note
LDP        Letter o f Development Policy
LIC DSA    Low Income Country Debt Sustainability Analysis
LICUS      Low Income Countries under Stress
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MDA        Ministries, Departments and Agencies
MDG        MillenniumDevelopment Goal
MDRI       Multilateral Debt ReliefInitiative
MINURCART UnitedNationMission inCentral African Republic and Chad
           (Mission des Nations Unies en Republique Centrafricaine et Tchaa')
MoF        MinistryofFinance
MTEF       Medium-termExpenditure Framework
NGO        NonGovernmental Organization
N-PV       Net Present Value
OHADA      African Organisation for Harmonization o f Business Law
           (Organisationpour I 'Harmonisation en Afrique des Droits des Affaires)
OPEC       Organization o f PetroleumExportingCountries
PARPAF     RegionalForest management Support Project
            (Projet d 'Appui Rdgional au Plan d 'Ame'nagementForestier)
 PEFA       Public Expenditure and FinancialAccountability
 PFM        Public Finance Management
 PRGF       Poverty ReductionGrant Facility
 PRS        Poverty Reduction Strategy
 PRSG       Poverty Reduction Support Grant
 PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
 RIBSUP     Reengagement and Institution-Building Support Program
 SME        Small and Medium Enterprises
 SOCASP     Central African Stocking Company of PetroleumProducts
            (Socidtd Centrafricaine de Stockage de Produits Pdtroliers)
 SOCATEL    Central African Telecommunications Company
            (Socidtd Centrafricaine de Tildcommunications)
 SODECA     NationalWater Distribution Company
            (Socidtd de Distribution d 'Eau de Centrafrique)
 SOGAL      Liquidand Gas Company
            (Socidtd de Gaz et Liquide)
 SOE        State-Owned Enterprise
 SYDONIA    Automated System for Customs Data
            (SystBme Douanier d 'Information Automatisd)
 SYSTEMIF   Fiscal Information System (Systeme d 'Information Fiscale)
 TF         Trust Fund

TIN       Taxpayer IdentificationNumber
TTM       Tropical Timber Market
TOFE      FinancialTable o f Government Operations
           (Tableau d 'Operation Financiere de 1'Etat)
TOR       Terms of Reference
UK        United Kingdom
UN         UnitedNations
UNCAC      United NationsConventionAgainst Corruption
UNDAF      United Nations Development Assistance Framework
UNDP       UnitedNationsDevelopmentProgram
UNESCO     United Nation Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNHCHR     United Nations HighCommissioner for HumanRights
UNICEF     United Nations International Children's EmergencyFund
USAID      United States Agency for InternationalDevelopment
VAT        Value AddedTax
VPA        Voluntary Partnership Agreement
WFP        World FoodProgram
WRT        World Resources Institute
WWF        World Wildlife Fund




       Vice President              = ObiageliKatrynEzekwesili
       Country Director            = MaryA. Barton-Dock
       Sector Director             = Sudhir Shetty
       Sector Manager              = Jan Walliser
       Task Team Leader            = Luc Razafimandimby
       Team members                = BernardAbeille, Eric Bell, HClkne
                                        Bertaud, Brigitte Bocoum, Aissatou
                                        Diallo, Serge Emenang, Charles
                                        Donang, Paul Jonathan Martin, Vincent
                                        Fruchart, Victoria Gyllerup, Gerard
                                        Kambou, Richard Messick, Janine
                                        Mans, Clotilde Ngomba, Peter Osei,
                                        Katrina Sharkey, Renaud Seligmann,
                                        DavidTchuinou, Jean-Baptiste Maude,
                                        Paula JoachimWhite


                   THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
                                PROGRAMDOCUMENT
                                      FORA PROPOSED
        ECONOMIC MANAGEMENTAND GOVERNANCEREFORMGRANT

                                    TABLEOFCONTENTS

I INTRODUCTIONANDOVERVIEW
I1
 ..                                                          ...............................................................        1
       COUNTRYCONTEXT AND THE GOVERNMENTPROGRAM                                                                     ................3
            .
           B Recent Macroeconomic Performance ..........................................................
           A Political and Security Developments ...........................................................
            ..                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                  10
           D.Povertyoutlook..........................................................................................
           C Medium-termoutlook andFinancingRequirement...................................

           E.The Government PRS and ReformAgenda ...............................................                                  14
                                                                                                                                  16
I11
  .    BANK SUPPORTTO THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM                                                          .......................   18

           B.LinkwithBank Group Operations.............................................................
           A Linkto Joint InterimStrategy Note (JISN) andthe forthcoming CPS...... 19
            .                                                                                                                     18


IV.    THE PROPOSEDGRANT                 ................................................................................         30
           A.Operation Description................................................................................                30
           B Policy Areas ...............................................................................................
            .                                                                                                                     33
V.     OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION                             ...............................................................        49
                                                                                                                                  49
           B EnvironmentalAspects ..............................................................................
           A.Poverty and Social Impact .........................................................................
           C. Implementation, Monitoring, and Evaluation............................................
            .                                                                                                                     50
                                                                                                                                  51
           D.FiduciaryAspects
           E Disbursement andAuditing........................................................................                     52
                                                                                                                                  52
           F Risks andRiskMitigation ..........................................................................
            ..                    .......................................................................................

                                                                                                                                  53

                                        LISTOFTABLES

                                                                                                                                    5
Table 2: Central Government Operations. 2005-2011......................................................
Table 1:MainEconomic Indicators. 2004-20 11inunitsindicated) ..................................
                                                                                                                                  12
Table 3: ExternalDebt Service. 2008-2010 (inUS dollars) .............................................                             13
Table 4: Selected Social Indicators...................................................................................
Table 5: Summary o f EMGRGIFollow-On Actions.......................................................                               16
                                                                                                                                  20
Table 6: Areas of coordination of donors' Budget supportlexternal aid ..........................
Table 7: Forest revenue distribution .................................................................................            24
Table 8: Implementation Schedule of the CAR AFLEG system......................................                                    46
                                                                                                                                  48

                                        LISTOFFIGURES

Figure 1:Government Revenue..........................................................................................               7
Figure2: Total budgetsupport (US$millions)...................................................................                       9


                                                      i

                                         LISTOFBOXES

Box 1: Prior Actions for this Grant Operation..................................................................            31
Box 2: GoodPractice Principles on Conditionality                .......................................................... 32
Box 3: Checklist o f Key Actions Requiredo f Governnient adhering to the UnitedNations
ConventionAgainst Corruption........................................................................................       42


                                       LISTOFANNEXES

Annex 1: Letter ofDevelopmentPolicy...........................................................................             56
Annex 2: OperationPolicy Matrix....................................................................................        73
                                                                                                                           78
Annex 4: IDA Activities inthe Central African Republic................................................
Annex 3: H P C CompletionPoint Triggers......................................................................
                                                                                                                           79
Annex 5: LICUS Trust Funds    ...........................................................................................
Annex 6: FundRelations Note..........................................................................................      81

Annex 7: Country at a Glance...........................................................................................    87
                                                                                                                           91
Annex 8: Map ofthe Central African Republic................................................................                93




                                                      ..
                                                      11

                            GRANT AND PROGRAMSUMMARY

                  ECONOMICMANAGEMENT       AND GOVERNANCE        REFORM GRANT11

Borrower                  Central African Republic
Implementing Agency       Ministry o f Planning, Economy and International Cooperation
FinancingData             IDA Grant
                          Terms: Grant
                          Amount: SDR 3.4 million (US$5 million equivalent)
Operation type            One tranche
M a i n Policy Areas      The Economic Management and Governance Reform Grant I1(EMGRG 11)
                          focuses on (i) finance management, in particular as regards public
                                          public
                          expenditure management and tax and customs administration and (ii)public
                          sector and economic governance, namely procurement, transparency, fight
                          against corruption, and quality o f the regulatory framework in two key
                          economic areas (forestry and mining)).
K e y Outcomes Indicators (i)Comprehensivereports of Government operations reviewedbyexternal
                          oversight bodies; (ii) Number o f Government accounts in commercial banks
                          reduced from 73 to a maximum o f 21; (iii)comprehensive review o f
                          exemption conventions by the CICEFD and made publicly available, and
                          targeted increase in tax revenues to 8.2 percent of GDP for end-2009; (iv)
                          Contracts awarded using competitive bidding process for investment in the
                          public sector account for at least 70 percent (compared to less than 20 percent
                          currently) and at least 70 percent o f cases resolved by Bidders complaint unit;
                          (v) All permits granted in the mining sector use new standard investment
                          agreement as per the new mining Code; (vi) Percentage o f forestry tax funds
                          transferred to the communities as per the threshold set by the Law (vii)
                          progress inimplementingthe AFLEG systeminthe forestry sector.
Program Development       The proposed operation sustains and deepens reforms supported by the
Objective(s) and          predecessor operations (RIBSUP, EMGRG I)and retains the same objective
Contribution to CAS       which i s to (i)enhance transparency and strengthen control o f Government
                          operations; (ii)improve revenue mobilization capacity; (iii)improve legal
                          environment for the private sector to engage in provision o f goods and
                          services to the public sector; (iv) implement the EITI principles and the new
                          MiningCode and improve governance inthe forestry sector.

                          The Second Economic Management and Governance Reform Grant (EMGRG
                          11) directly supports two pillars of the CAR PRSP: (i)promoting good
                          governance and the rule o f law (pillar 2); (ii) rebuilding and diversifying the
                          economy (pillar 3). The EMGRG I1i s aligned with the Joint InterimStrategy
                          Note (JISN) and the forthcoming overall Bank Strategy outlined in the World
                          Bank Group and AfDB joint strategy for CAR covering FY09-12. The
                          Association's strategy emphasizes the consolidation o f state capacity and
                          governance, and the rehabilitation and development o f basic socio-economic
                          infrastructure.
RisksandRisks             The     EMGRG has          significant,   security,   political,  sustainability,
mitigation                macroeconomic and institutional capacity risks, This reflects (i) the country's
                          fragile political situation, in particular in view o f the consequences of
                          expectations raised by the Political Inclusive Dialogue and the new coalition
                          Government; (ii)   and the risks associated with low Government revenue as a

                                                 ...
                                                 111

                    result o f the impact o f the financial crisis. As in many conflict affected
                    countries, deterioration inthe security situation constitutes an important source
                    o f risk for the operation. Likewise, a reversal in the political stabilization
                    process, together with a weakening o f ownership over the key measures
                    agreed with the Government, could undermine the development objectives of
                    the operation. To mitigate these risks, the Government has expressed
                    ownership and has demonstrated a credible commitment to reforms through
                    the successful implementation o f its program since 2006, the prior actions
                    already carried out, and the commitment to carry out follow-on measures
                    targeting critical areas o f economic management and governance. To reduce
                    the risk o f weak institutional capacity, the operation focuses on sustaining
                    Government reforms that have started generating positive results and on a
                    limited number of reform areas. The donors have a key role in helping the
                    Government address macroeconomic risks by enhancing harmonization of
                    budget support, in terms of content and timing. There should be greater effort
                    at aligning budget support with the Government budget cycle and financial
                    programming. Although this operation i s designed as a one-year-stand-alone
                    budget support, it i s embedded in a medium-term dialogue and possible
                    follow-up measures have been identified taking into consideration the need for
                    continuity inthe reform program.
Operation IDNumber  P113176




                                           iv

                       CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC


                       I. INTRODUCTIONANDOVERVIEW

1.      This Program Document presents a proposed Economic Management and
GovernanceReformGrant I1(EMGRG11)for the CentralAfrican Republic(CAR)
in the amount of SDR 3.4 (US$5 million equivalent). This is the third Development
Policy Operation (DPO) supporting the Government o f the CAR, after its successful
reengagement with the donor community in2006. The proposed Grant i s a single-tranche
operation supporting the 2009 budget.

2.      The operation supports the implementation of the country's PRSP. The full
PRSP describes the Government's comprehensive strategy for accelerating
economic growth and reducingpoverty for 2008-2010. The main axes of the PRSP
are: (i)restoring security and consolidating peace; (ii)
                                                       promoting good governance and
therule of law; (iii)
                    rebuildingand diversifyingthe economy; (iv) and developing human
capital. It was adopted by the Government in June 2007 and presented to the donor
community and civil society inSeptember 2007.

3.      The proposed Grant supports the second and third pillars of the PRSP.
Promoting good governance and the rule o f law will be supported by efforts to improve
public sector and economic governance through enhanced accountability o f the executive
and transparent management o f public resources. Public finance efforts aim to align the
budgetwith the PRSP, produce comprehensive fiscal reports, increasethe role of external
oversight bodies, and strengthen Government's revenue mobilization capacity. Structural
reforms directed at rebuilding the economy aim to establish a legal and regulatory
framework conducive to the development o f a competitive mining and environmentally
sustainable forestry sector, the two sectors being the main sources o f foreign exchange
earnings and growth for CAR.

4.      The Grant is aligned with the main axes of the forthcomingjoint IDA-AfDB
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) being finalized and the Joint Interim Strategy
Note (JISN). The Association's strategies identify development policy operations as a
key aid modality, which fosters ownership, alignment with the country's development
program, and domestic accountability. Programs supported with DPOs are expected to
spur economic recovery and help strengthen public sector governance with reforms
spanning public finance management, both from the expenditure and revenue
perspectives; and economic governance in key sectors such as management o f natural
resources.

5.      The Grant is beingprocessedunder the IDA FinancialCrisis Response Fast-
Track Facility to help the Government meet urgent financing needs arising from a
rapid decline in forestry and mining exports revenues. As a result of the crisis and
deteriorating terms o f trade, export revenues have decreased by 20.7 percent in 2008
compared to 2007. They are expected to continue their decline in 2009 (-12.3 percent)
compared with pre crisis projected growth o f 12.5 percent in 2008 and 4.3 percent in


                                             1

2009. Inthe forestry sector, since November 2008, six companies out o f ninehave closed
their processing units. As a result of the external shocks and a break-down of electricity
supply in mid-2008, growth is estimated at 2.8 percent in 2008, against an initial
projection o f 4.9 percent inMay 2008. Although tax revenues for 2008 are likely to come
inon target, at 8 percent o f GDP, they are projected to be about 1percent of GDP lower
than initially projected in 2009. With most donor financing and H P C and MDRIrelief
anticipated only for the second half o f 2009, the fast-tracking accelerates the delivery o f
Bank EMGRGI1to finance essential outlays inearly 2009.

6.      In line with a request by Government, the operation together with other
grants would result in 150 percent front-loadingof IDA for CAR. The Government
has requested (and reaffirmed in the context o f consultations on a new CAS) that IDA
delivery be accelerated in order to meet urgent needs o f the population after re-
engagement in 2006. In particular, in addition to this grant, IDA i s helping address the
power emergency through a Grant approved on February 17, 2009 and i s preparing a
community development grant intendedto support vulnerable population in rural areas.
Together, these Grants represent a comprehensive package for sustained Government
service delivery, improvements in electricity services, and protection o f vulnerable
groups. As the country reachesthe HIPC completion point and debt relief under MDRI,it
i s expected that reduced IDA envelopes will be compensated by additional Government
fiscal space and close collaborationwith other donors.

7.      Proceeds of the proposed Grant would provide continued support to
consolidate the reforms initiated by the Government with the support of the previous
operations: the "Reengagement and Institution Building Support Program Grant"
(RIBSUP; FY07) and the Economic Management and Governance Reform Grant
(EMGRG I;FY08). Implementation over the course o f RIBSUP and the EMGRGIhas
supported reforms in a number o f priority areas, These include: (i)rationalizing Treasury
operations; (ii) improving budget executionprocedures, including control; (iii)  improving
the accounting system with the adoption of budget and accounting nomenclatures; (iv)
adopting a unified payroll management system for civil and military personnel; (v)
improving tax and customs administration; (vi) strengtheningthe state's capacity to fight
corruption and enhancing accountability o f the executives; (vii) and enhancing
transparency and improving the legal and regulatory framework with regard to natural
resources - forestry, miningand oil.

8.      The proposed Grant is part of an overall package of IDA support for
economic management supported by (i)       components o f a US$6.8 million grant from the
Low Income Countries Under Stress (LICUS) Trust Fund, approved in October 2006, to
provide, among other areas, capacity-building and technical assistance to enhance
governance and economic management systems (EGEMAS); (ii)           and a LICUS grant o f
US$2 million approved in August 2008 (FY08) to provide continued support to public
.finance management and governance in key sectors, including the mining and the oil
sectors. It complements donors' support for CAR'Seconomic reformprogram.

9.      The EMGRG I1 has significant security, political, sustainability,
macroeconomic and institutional capacity risks. These risks reflect the country's


                                              2

fragile security and political situation and the low Government revenues. As in many
conflict affected countries, deterioration inthe security situation constitutes an important
source o f risk for the operation. Likewise, a reversal in the political stabilization process,
together with a weakening o f ownership over the key measures agreed with the
Government, could undermine the development objectives o f the operation. Mitigating
factors are that the Government has expressed ownership and has demonstrated
commitment to reforms through their implementation since 2006 and through prior
actions already carried out, as well as through the definition o f the follow-on measures
targeting critical areas o f economic management and governance as part o f a medium-
term vision. To reduce the risk o f weak institutional capacity, the operation focuses on
sustaining Government reforms that have started generating positive results in a limited
number ofreform areas.

          11.     COUNTRYCONTEXTAND THE GOVERNMENT
                                           PROGRAM

                       A. POLITICALAND SECURITY DEVELOPMENTS

10.     Return to constitutionality in 2005 under the presidency of Mr. BozizC has
broken the vicious circle of politicalinstabilityin CAR. In2003, a military insurgency
headed by General Franqois Bozizb came to power and established a transitional
Government. The Government organized a political process including(i)         the organization
o f a national dialogue in September 2003, bringingtogether all the political parties and
civil society organizations; (ii)the adoption via a referendum o f a constitution in
December 2004; (iii) the holding o f legislative and presidential elections in March
                        and
and May 2005. Successful elections provided an opportunity for the Government to
initiate security sector and political reforms.

11.     CAR is currently at a crossroads with the formation of a coalition
Government followingthe Internal Dialogue and the peace process with rebels and
the opposition. Three years after free and fair presidential and legislative elections,
CAR'S political situation has considerably improved. A coalition Government including
representatives o f the opposition was formed in midJanuary 2009 as a result o f the
inclusive political dialogue that took place inDecember 2008. The National Dialogue, a
meetingo f all political actors (opposition, social, political and rebel groups) was held in
Bangui in December 2008 with representatives of the Government, opposition, civil
society and rebel groups participating in the Dialogue in an atmosphere o f appeasement.
Such initiatives followed-on (i)   the cease-fire agreement with the main rebel group and
peace accords between the Government and the Opposition launched in June 2008, (ii)
and the promulgation of amnesty to all opponents and rebels, making it possible for
broad-based dialogue to be held in-country, and reducing security risks arising from
political conflict.

 12.     However, the security situation remains fragile. A UN 2008 report noted that
the security situation has markedly improved. Nevertheless, banditry remains a concern
in certain rural regions, particularly the Bangui-Cameroon corridor. The regional



                                               3

environment had also been marked by conflict -the Kivu in Democratic Republic o f
Congo, Chad, and Darfur in Sudan -which had aggravated the difficulties encountered
by the defense and security forces. Despite the deployment of the EU Darfur force, the
situation inEastern Chad was reportedto have further deteriorated inthe first semester of
2008. The CAR still lacks defense and security forces capable o f ensuring security within
the country, largely reflecting an ageing, poorly trained army and a shortage of financial
resources inthe face o f large needs.

13.     Stepped-up efforts aimed at restoringpeace and security in CAR have been
made by the international community. The UN Security Council approved the
deployment o f some 5,500 UnitedNations peacekeepers on January 15, 2009 to replace
European troops instrife-tom areas o f Chad and Central African Republic (CAR) until 15
March 2010. The UNMission inCAR and Chad (MINURCAT) i s scheduled to take over
from the European Force on 15 March, 2009. Northern CAR has beenaffected by a spill-
over from the Darfur conflict as well as by other armed groups. Inits resolution, the UN
Security Council stressed that the multidimensional presence in Chad and military
presence in the CAR are intended to help create the security conditions conducive to a
voluntary, secure and sustainable return o f refugees and displaced persons, by boosting
security protection, facilitating the provision o f humanitarian aid, and promoting
reconstruction and economic and social development. This initiative follows on security
reforms with support from donors including the UnitedNations Office for Consolidation
o f the Peace in Central Africa (BONUCA), France, and the regional forces, Forces
Multinationale de la CEMAC (FOMUC). The Association i s also assisting CAR by
including inthe broad PFM work the security sector. Proposed activities are based on the
Association's comparative advantage and mandate to assist the CAR'S Government in
identifying areas for improvement to strengthen financial management and budgetary
processes and to minimize leakages in CAR'S security sector and agencies. The
Association also provides support for enhanced communication channels between the
central Government inBangui and the populationthroughout the national territory.

                      B.RECENT    MACROECONOMIC       PERFORMANCE

14.     Since 2004, economic recovery has been gaining momentum as the country
has started to recover from the long political instability (Table 1). Real GDP per
capita saw positive growth rates since 2005 and further accelerated since 2006, with an
average real growth o f 4 percent in 2006-07. Investment increased from 6.8 percent o f
GDP in 2006 to 9.9 percent in 2007, and i s estimated to have reached 11.1 percent o f
GDP in 2008. Private investment almost doubled (4.0 percent o f GDP to a projected 7.2
percent o f GDP) over the same period. In terms o f sectoral economic growth, the
economic recovery has been mainly driven by developments in the mining, forestry and
merchant services, inparticular, telecommunications and transport. Inthe tertiary sector,
telecommunications and transport have been booming, with an average growth o f 7-8
percent, drivenrespectively by investment in cellular phones (three companies have been
created since 2006) and economic and trade resumption. Inthe secondary sector, growth
inmanufacturing (6 percent on average between 2006 and 2008) has been sustained by
higher demandand consumption partlydrivenby regularpayment ofpublic salaries. The
contribution o f the primary sector has been uneven and variable. With a contribution to


                                             4

GDP o f 55 percent over the past years, agriculture grew at an average rate of 3.5 percent.
Poor infrastructure, insecurity in rural areas, lack o f adequate extension services, and
declining perfonnance of cash crops (coffee and cotton) as a result o f declining
international prices are the factors accounting for relatively l o w growthinagriculture.

                         Table 1: Main EconomicIndicators, 2004-2011




Nominal GDP (CFAFbn)                 670.7  712.1  772.2   820.6   882.3  943.3 1011.0  1087.0
Gross investment rate (% of GDP)       6.8    9.8    10.1    9.9     10.2  10.9   14.2   14.4
 ....PrivateInvestment                 4.0    4.5     5.2    6.1     7.1    5.7   7.9     8.2
Source: UIF.



 15.       Despite improving growth prospects, CAR'S economy is                 fragile and
 vulnerable, and it lacks diversification.CAR is a small economy with small domestic
 savings and significant import constraints. It is characterized by structural weaknesses


                                              5

pointing to much needed diversification of the economy. Economic growth i s based
mainly on the mining, forestry, and telecommunications sectors - and mining and
forestry account for more than 90 percent of CAR'Sexports. CAR being a landlocked
country, lack o f infrastructure to connect the different parts o f the country and to link the
country to external markets, has constrained growth inthe agricultural sector. Investment
inmanufacturing remains low due to concerns about security. CAR'Sutility companies,
including electricity and water, are state-owned, and have deteriorated due to lack of
maintenance and investment, as a result o f poor management. As a result, CAR'S
economic performance i s extremely vulnerable, with potential important setbacks to
growth incase o f shocks.

16.     CAR's economy has been affected by the changing international
environment and a number of shocks over the course of 2008, with important
setbacks to growth, estimated at 2.8 percent. First, the recent breakdown at the main
hydro power plant with concomitant power outages impacted negatively on the economy.
Second, similar to the situation in neighboring countries, timber activities, including
production and exports, have sharply declined as a result o f the global economic
slowdown. A year-on-year comparison shows that timber export volume has decreased
by 20 percent compared to 2007. In the forestry sector, since November 2008, six
companies out o fninehave closed their processingunits. This situation has ledto the lay-
off o f 1,335 employees and a decline in wages by 28 percent in the sector'. Third,
diamond activities are being affected by declining prices and the closing o f eight o f the
existing eleven purchasing offices in October. These companies had not complied with
the national regulations. Small artisanal mines are closing, and larger mines have started
reducing investmentprograms andproduction. Growth inthe diamondsector has dropped
from 10.3 percent in2007 to -10.7 percent in2008. Lastly, food and oil price hikes inthe
first semester o f2008 lowered real incomes and reduced effective demand.

17.      Since 2006, CAR has a PRGFprogramwith the IMF,which has remainedon
track. CAR completed the third review of the PRGF arrangement on December 22,
2008 (see Annex 6).2 The regional monetary arrangements and monetary policy of the
regional central bank BEAC have kept inflation low within the regional performance,
averaging 3.5 percent between 2005 and 2007, with a pronounced decrease to 0.9 percent
in2007. However, the compoundeffect ofhigher food and oilprices inthe first semester
o f 2008 has led to temporarily higher inflation in 2008, which i s projected at almost
9 percent.

18.      There has been sustained progress in domestic revenue mobilization.
However, CAR' s tax revenue remains low
standards    - at                                            - even by Sub-Saharan African
                   a mere 8 percent of GDP in 2008, the highest level since 2003 (Figure
l).3 revenuehasincreasedfrom8percentto10percentofGDPbetween2004
     Domestic

                                ~




  80 percent o ftimber products are exported. Sources: GovernmentAssessmentofthe Impact ofthe
Financial Crisis (CAR, Dec, 2008)
  In December 2006 the CAR's PRGF was approved by the IMF for an amount equivalent to about
US$56.4 millionto support the Government's economic programinto 2009.
  There was a reclassificationofrevenuesin2007 which loweredreportedtax revenuesby almost 1percent
of GDP. Properlymeasuredtax revenues increasedin2007.


                                                    6

and 2008. Despite the impact o f the global economic slowdown and increased
expenditures prompted by the need for addressing the power outages and the impact o f
the food and energy price shocks on the population, domestic primary balance has
remained positive (0.6 percent o f GDP in 2008), sustaining performance over the past
years, and breaking a long tradition o f deficits (as high as 3.5 percent o f GDP in 2005).
Tax revenue increased from 7.2 percent o f GDP to 8 percent o f GDP between 2007 and
2008.

                               Figure1:Government Revenue
                                    (Percentage of GDP)




                            2004   2005      2006     2007      2008




                    Source: IMF.

 19.    Domestic revenue remains largely insufficient to meet development needs.
Averaging 13.5 percent between 2006 and 2008, public expenditures are constrained by
low domestic revenue, inparticular domestically financed investment which has averaged
 1percent of GDP. As a result, the current provision o f public goods remains insufficient
to support growth and poverty reduction. In addition, expenditures had to be compressed
 further over recent years to respond flexibly and quickly to shocks inordert to meet fiscal
 targets while complying with debt service obligations after re-engagement with the
 international community.

 20.     For years the timely payment of public sector salaries has been an issue in
 the CAR. Although salaries and wages in the public sector have declined over recent
 years and represented 4.2 percent o f GDP in 2008 (in line with other countries in West
 and Central Africa), they represent slightly less than half o f current primary expenditures.
 Cash flow pressures have frequently resulted in nonpayment o f salaries. In addition, the
 salary grid has not been changed and civil servants did not receive promotion adjustments
 over the last 23 years, during which several Governments accumulated substantial
 arrears. Since the last regime change in 2003, the Government initially accumulated
 several months o f salary arrears that have since then been reduced to four months. The
 Government has also incorporated eleven years o f salary adjustments from the initial
 salary base for civil servants in the 2009 budget. However, four quarters o f pension



                                               7

arrears have not been addressed yet. Public salaries and wages have become a source of
social and political tension leading to pressurefrom public sector employees calling for a
rise in salaries associated with frequent and renewed threats o f general strike. For
instance, a delay in the payment o f public salaries in December 2007 led to
demonstrations and a public sector strike, and eventually a change in Government in
January 2008.

21.     In the meantime, the Government is addressing civil service reform under
the HIPC program with measures aimed at adopting a satisfactory new organic
framework as well as new rules and regulations for civil servants and a
correspondingcompensation and performancesystem.The weight and size o f public
salaries and wages in the budget i s not consistent with the quality and quantity o f public
services deliveredso far. Inresponse, the Government is undertakinglarge medium-term
reforms aimed at addressing the burden o f public wages in the budget as well as the
quality o fpublic services deliveredby the Government. The main objective o f this reform
program i s to revise the civil service statute through the definition o f a management
system based on clear job descriptions for various positions, and the redeployment o f
civil servants to positions based on their individual profiles, consistent with overall
staffing needs. It follows an important step taken to establish an integrated payroll
management system that has allowed for dismissal o f ghost workers and more transparent
management of salaries and wages.

22.     Large outstanding arrears represent a further constraint on Government's
resources. The Government of CAR has a stock o f domestic arrears amounting to an
estimated 11.8 percent of GDP in 2008 (CFAF104 billion) largely due to political and
economic instability prior to 2003. In addition to unpaid salaries and pensions,
outstanding arrears include those to private suppliers. To maintain social stability, the
Government has made considerable efforts to repay arrears totaling CFAF23 billion since
2006, equivalent to 0.7 percent o f GDP in 2007 and 0.6 o f GDP in 2008 (est), including
salaries and arrears to suppliers. The Government has adopted an action plan to settle
arrears, the implementation ofwhich i s expected to start in2009.

23.     Lastly, to overcome recurrent cash shortages, CAR has been using lines of
credit and credit facilities with commercial banks that carry high annual interest
rate charges, in excess of 18 percent. The Government's debt service to commercial
banks amounted approximately to US$10 million in2008. Not only are interest payments
high, but the Government's ability to manage liquidity is also affected negatively as
commercial banks deduct due debt payments directly from Government accounts held in
commercialbanks.

24.     This substantialfiscal challenge is accentuated by fluctuating and declining
 grant disbursements made by the donor community.Donor financing has remained
 low, with grants dropping from 13.3 percent o f GDP in 2006 to 4.1 percent of GDP in
 2007 and 3.5 percent of GDP in 2008.4 Budget support declined in 2008 (1.2 percent o f
 GDP or US$28 million in2008) compared to 2007 (1.6 percent o f GDP or approximately


  Budget support declinedin2008, fromUS$45.3 millionin2007 to US$26.8 million.


                                               8

 US$30 million). This limited external support left the Government frequently focused on
 day-to-day cash management and severely constrained the Government's ability to show
 tangible results to the population from the re-engagement with the donor community.
 Despite significant efforts by Government to stabilize both the political and economic
  situation, the country remains a "donor orphan" with limitedpresence by the international
 donor community and a narrow base o f support.

                                Figure2: Totalbudget support (US$ millions)

      160
      140
      120
      100

       80
       60
       40
       20
         0
                  2004               2005        2006              2007            2008

  Note: Sources: IMF; World Bank estimates

  25.       CAR's external position has been adversely affected by high degree of
  vulnerability. As timber and diamonds account for 90 percent of exports, developments
  in these two products largely determine export perf~rmance.~Declining timber and

  through significant drop in timber demand - have aggravated the current account deficit.
  diamond prices, and most importantly the impact o f the global economic slowdown -

  The compound effect o f lower export values and higher imports driven by higher food an
  oil prices in the first semester o f 2008, as well as lower transfers have caused the current
  account deficit to grow from 3 ercent o f GDP in 2006 to 6.1 percent o f GDP in 2007
  and 8.7 percent o f GDP in2008.          g

  26.       The CAR reachedthe HIPC Decision Point in September 2007, following the
  completion of the Poverty Reduction Strategy and a satisfactory macroeconomic
  performanceunderthe PRGFpr~gram.~                       The reduction o f the CAR'SNPV o f debt-to-
  exports ratio from 470 percent in 2006 to 150 percent implies a common reduction factor
  o f 68 percent. The CAR i s receiving interim HIPC relief from several multilateral

    Wood product exports account for nearly half o f merchandise exports.
    As a member o f the CEMAC, CAR has only a notional share o f the regional reserves, and regional
  reserve levels, which were comforted by risingoil prices, are more than adequate.
   7The CAR's public-and publicly-guaranteed external debt was estimated at US$l.lbillion in nominal
   terms as o f end-December 2006, equivalent to about US$ 856 million in NPV terms and 470 percent of
  exports o f goods and services. Multilateral debt accounted for 63 percent o f the total debt, bilateral
   creditors accounted for 32 percent, with the remainder o f the external debt stock accounted for by
.  commercial creditors. Based on proportional burden sharing, multilateral debt relief would amount to
   U S 3 6 5 million and bilateral and commercial debt relief to U S 2 1 8 million.


                                                         9

creditors under Cologne terms (i.e. 90 percent debt cancellation) and Paris Club creditors
are providing a debt service moratorium until2009.

             c.MEDIUM-TERM       OUTLOOKAND FINANCING         REQUIREMENT

27.     The macroeconomic projections underlying this Grant deviate from the
PRGF projectionspresented to the IMF's Board in December 2008 and reflect the
latest update, as outlined in the IMF assessment letter (Annex 6). These projections
can be seen as conservative as they incorporate anticipated revenue shortfalls in2009 but
not yet additional policy measures. Additional policy measures affecting revenue,
spending and expenditure savings (i.e,, on petroleum subsidies) may be identified during
the next PRGF review, giving confidence that the Government would have room to face
additional downside risks.

28.     Growthprojectionspoint to a growth rate as low as 3 percentin 2009 despite
expected restoration o f electricity supply, improved security, and positive impact o f
donor-financed projects, particularly in infrastructure (Table 1). The main drivers o f the
growth slowdown in 2009 are lower forestry and mining related outputs. Preliminary
estimates point to a likelihood o f a continued decline o f timber exports until mid-2009.
Sluggishmarket conditions are likely to last according to ITTO Tropical Timber Market
(TTM) as forecasts for the economic situation in the UK and Continental Europe show
low or no growth for the next 12 to 24 months. Prompt upturn in the consumption o f
timber andtimber products inthe short or mediumterm is unlikely.Investmentinmining
would be affected by lower activities due to the closing o f the purchasing offices. There
has been no indication o f a credit crunch: the prudential ratios show that the financial
system remains stable, with some excess liquidity. None o f the commercial banks have
reported that their connections with parent banks have been affected by the crisis. There
have beenno reports o f outflows o fportfolio investment and resident capital so far.

29.     Growth is projected to average 4.2 percent in the medium-term (2009-2011)
under the revised projections. Growth inthe medium-term would be drivenby a strong
rebound o fthe miningsector (13 percent growth over 2009-2011) and to a lesser extent, a
resumption o f forestry activities (5 percent growth), as well as continued growth in
telecommunications and transport (9 percent growth) and construction (7 percent). Under
the projections, agriculture will grow at a sustained rate o f 5 percent from 2010.
Achieving sustained medium-term growth relies on a number o f assumptions, including
the continuation o f key policy changes. First, security would be improved. Second, there
would be greater public spending projected to rise from 13.8 o f GDP in 2008 to 17.6
percent o f GDP by 2011 to sustain investment in key sectors, with public investment
increasing from 3 percent o f GDP to 6.3 percent o f GDP, o f which a doubling o f
domestically financed investment. To enhance the expected impact o f higher spending,
the Government would need to focus on aligning the budget with policy priorities,
improve budget execution and enhance transparency and accountability. Third, there
would be faster implementation o f donor-financed projects in electricity, roads,
telecommunications, and key sectors. These inputs are crucial for restoring growth inkey




                                             10

sectors such as agriculture and trade.         Fouvth, Government cash flow must be sufficient
to meet wage payments to avoid public sector strikes and to sustain internal demand.
Lastly, decisive domestic reforms to increase private sector investment would be
sustained, including governance reforms in the mining and forestry sectors and
improvement in the business climate (including policies aimed at keeping continued
increase in credit to the private sector and employment gains in industrial and service
 sector^).^ Private investment would increase from 7.1 percent o f GDP (est.) in 2008 to 8.2
percent, a twofold increase compared to 2004.

30.     A key factor resides in CAR's ability to achieve the projected tax revenue
level (9.4 percent of GDP) and domestic revenue (11.4 percent of GDP) by 2011
(Table 1). As a result of the crisis, tax revenue i s projected to fall drastically by about
US$18 million in 2009 against initial projections. In order to meet the Government's
target o f tax revenue as a share o f GDP, the Government's strategy i s to broaden the tax
base, strengthen tax exemption management and control, intensify audits o f large
taxpayers, improve tax collection through better informationmanagement, and rationalize
taxes inthe petroleum sector. `

31.      CAR's development and fiscal challenges may lead to worsening deficit
(Table 2) Given higher expenditures to support growth, domestic debt payment
(including debt to commercial banks, salaries, pensions, and supplier arrears), and the
projected revenue losses in2009, the Government's overall deficit would double between
2008 and 2009. Domestic primary balance would be - 0.8 percent o f GDP in 2009 and
remain negative until 2011 (-0.2 percent o f GDP), reversing the trends over the past
years.

32.      The deficit would be financed through a shift toward less costly sources of
domestic borrowing (Table 2). Due to CAR'S improving tax performance, the
Government can resume borrowing from the BEAC and also plans to access regional
bonds, not exceeding about 1percent o f GDP (US$20 million). However, the terms and
volumes CAR may raise on regional bond markets are uncertain. The Government should
therefore continue to seek concessional external financing to help it in reducing its
domestic debt, clearing arrears, and creating needed fiscal space. It should also be noted
that although it implies interest savings compared to domestic bank debt, such an
approach would increase rollover risk.

33.      On the external front, the medium-term outlook would remain largely
unchanged (Table 1). The current-account deficit is expected to remain somewhat high
until 2011(9 percent of GDP) reflecting the impacto f the crisis and to some degree the
country's renewed ability to attract foreign savings (debt relief, aid, foreign investments)


  In particular, current donors support to rehabilitate the Boali power stations (IDA and France); the
regional backbone project to ensure reliable and cheaper technology in CAR (IDA), road projects to link
the Port of Douala to main cities and the latter to the interior land (IDA, EC and AfDB); the EC growth
pole project to support the development of potential sources of growth invarious regions.
  According to the latest statistics from the COBAC, credit to the private sector
and limited to large enterprises  -                                               - mostlyshort-term loans
                                    has increased by 17.3 percent between 2007 and 2008 compared to 0.1
between 2004 and 2005.


                                                     11

to finance the current account deficit. The deficit o n the services account i s forecast to
remain high as a result o f import-related services and high transport costs. The income
account will also remain in deficit due to interest payments on its external debt. Despite
rising surplus on the current transfers due to donors' assistance, deficits on both these
accounts would not be offset.

                         Table 2: CentralGovernmentOperations,2005-2011
                                                (inCFAFbillions)
                                                       2005      2006    2007    2008     2009     2010      2011
                                                                                  Est.     Proj    Proj      Proj
Overallfiscal balance
  Excludinggrants                                      -61.8     -33.8  -20.6    -29.7    -59.9   -65.3     -69.4
    Ofwhich: domesticprimarybalance       '            -25.3       3.3     9.0     5.0     -7.9     -2.4      -2.5
  Includinggrants                                      -32.4      69.1    12.8     1.5    -13.8    -12.6    -24.0

Changeinarrears (net; negativesign indicates            26.9     -50.2  -11.0    -10.5     -7.0    -15.0     -10.0
reduction)
  Domestic                                               9.4      -9.7    -8.6   -10.5     -7.0    -15.0     -10.0
  External                                              17.5     -40.5    -2.4     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0

Overallbalance, cashbasis                               -5.5      18.9     1.8    -9.0    -20.8    -27.6     -34.0

Identifiedfinancing                                      5.5      -8.8     0.7    23.3     20.8     27.6      34.0
  External;net                                          -4.5     -12.9    -9.5     5.8       7.8     4.4       7.8
     Project loans                                       3.2       3.0     0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      10.9
     Programloans                                        4.0       0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0
     Amortizationdue                                   -11.8     -15.9   -12.4   -11.3    -12.0    -25.2     -25.3
     Exceptional financing                               0.0       0.0     2.9    17.1     19.8     29.6      22.2
        ParisClub                                        0.0       0.0     1.5     1.0       1.1     1.4       0.9
        Other                                            0.0       0.0     1.4    16.1     18.7     28.3      21.3
     Changein externalarrears                             ...       ...
  Domestic, net                                         10.0       4.1    10.2    17.4     13.1     23.2      26.2
     Bankingsystem                                      10.0       4.1    10.2    13.9       6.6    -5.4      -4.6
        Counterpartto IMFresources(through              -2.6       2.2     2.4     6.8       4.4    -1.2      -0.6
        BEAC)
        CentralBank                                     10.2      -2.3     6.8    -1.3       5.2     0.0      -0.9
        CommercialBanks                                  2.4       4.2     1.0     8.4      -3.0    -4.2      -3.2
          Bonds                                           ...       ...     ...    0.0       0.0    16.0      -3.2
     Nonbank                                             0.0       0.0     0.0     3.5       6.5    28.6      30.9
Errors and omissions                                     0.0     -10.1    -2.5    14.3       0.0     0.0        0.0
Residualfinancingneed                                    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0        0.0

1/ Excludesgrants, interest payments, andexternally financed capitalexpenditure.
2/ Figuresfor 2006 reflect the arrears clearanceby The Associationandthe AfDB (CFAF 47.5 billion) andthe
  multilateralcreditors (CFAF 6.9 billion).
3/ ReflectsParisClub reschedulingandmoratoriumagreementin April 2007.
4/ IncludesHIPCdebt relieffrom multilateralandother bilateralcreditors.For 2008-09, also includesdebt services to
non-ParisClub and commercial creditors.

34.       The external debt indicators show that CAR faces a high risk of debt distress
but full delivery of HIPC and MDFUwould allow much faster up-front reductionof
debt ratios.A Low Income Country Debt Sustainability Analysis (LIC DSA) performed
in December 2008 shows that all debt indicators are significantly above the relevant
policy-dependent indicative thresholds in the initial years and the NPV of debt-to-export




                                                         12

ratio i s projected to stay above the relevant threshold until 2018." These ratios are
projected to gradually decline over time assuming a prudent fiscal stance i s maintained
and most new borrowing is on concessional terms. Such vulnerability underscores the
importance o f a stable socio-political environment and sound policies to support a
sustained improvement ineconomic performance;

                        Table 3: External Debt Service, 2008-2010 (in U S dollars)
                                              2008                        2009                   2010
Multilateral                                   14,4                        13.3                   3.6
   IDA                                                                      4.3                   0.8
  AfDF                                                                       1.3                  1.4
   IMF                                                                      0.8                   0.5
   Other2/                                                                  7.0                   0.9
ParisClub3/                                                                                       1.9
Non-ParisClub                                                              10,2                   4.6
Commercial2/                                                                2.7                   0.6
Total                                         32,4                        26.8                    10.8
Note: IncludesMDRldebtrelief.
21Debtservice to these creditorsare subject to on-goingnegotiations
31 The ParisClub grantedCAR a 2-year moratoriumperiod assumed to be the iterim period
Source: World Bank HIPC Unit, IMF.

35.        In addition to the domestic fiscal challenges, external debt service obligations
will still represent a significant source of outflows, even after HIPC CP (Table 3).
Debt service actually paid by the country substantially increased even during the interim
period. This i s a result o f the reengagement o f the CAR with the international financial
community, and also reflects a modest common reduction factor and frontloading of
interim H P C debt relief in 2007. In2009, assumed to be the final year of the interim
period, CAR i s expected to pay on a timely basis US$26.8 million. In the case o f the
Association, these payments consist o f an amount o f US$4.3 million. Debt service
payments are expected to fall to approximately US$10 million after the CAR attains
H P C Completion Point, including MDRI debt relief. This is in contrast to the situation
prior to re-engagement with the donor community, when the country made virtually no
debt service payments, except to the IMF.

36.        In conclusion, significant fiscal challenges                      -  as a result o f weak although
improving revenue mobilization capacity, the impact o f the global economic slowdown,
debt service obligations, and the need for meetingkey development spending - highlight
theneedfor increased andpredictable budget support from donors. Muchneededexternal
assistance, in form o f grants, i s expected to increase to 4.9 percent o f GDP in 2009,
driven by investment projects. Preliminary indication points to a continued decline of
budget support as a share of GDP, from 1.2 percent in 2008 to 1.1 percent in 2009 and
0.5 percent inlater years. Intotal, budget support in2009 would represent approximately
US$22 million. The Association will provide a US$5 million budget support under this
operation in the first semester of 2009. Tentatively, other support includes a Euro 2



lo The scenario assumes that CAR reaches the completion point under the HIPC Initiative during 2009. In
this case, the N P V o f debt-to-export ratio would be reducedto 125 percent in2008 and reachbelow the
threshold (100percent) by 2013.


                                                                13

million grant from France to be disbursed in the same period and a Euros 11.1 million
from grant the EC to be disbursed in the second semester, including the Emergency
Response to the Food Crisis o f Euros 4.6 million and Euros 5.5 million as part o f the
regular budget support program.

37.     Declining budget support requires, not only enhanced harmonization of
donors' program,but also improved coordinationof disbursement schedule around
Government's budget and financial programming. In 2009, especially during the
period preceding HIPC completion point, timing would need to be aligned with
Government's needs to avoid similar problems to those in 2008 when CAR experienced
great difficulties in meeting external debt services, prompting the Association to process
an Emergency grant o f US$2 million in the first quarter o f 2008." The 2009 quarterly
distributions from Government sources (TOFE) show that there would be a gap o f about
US$5 million (excluding payment of domestic arrears) in the first semester o f 2009
preceding the HIPC completion point. To ensure early availability o f external financing
in 2009, this grant is being processed under the IDA Financial Crisis Response Fast-
Track Facility.

38.      In the interim, the Government continues to implementmeasuresto improve
liquidity management through a Liquidity Committee chaired by the President with
participation o f the BEAC and line ministries to rationalize cash management. It i s also
engaged in a program aimed at strengthening the control o f the Treasury over
Government operations, including the closing of accounts held in commercial banks and
the transfer ofbalance to a single treasury account.

                                       D.POVERTYOUTLOOK

39.      Household survey data, collected with the support of the UNDP, estimate
that 67.2 percent of the population lived below the poverty line in 2003.12 The
national average hides important differences, with poverty particularly widespread in
rural areas, at 71.7 percent, which accounts for 62 percent of the population. Poverty rates
 are highest in regions in which armed conflict has been most violent and lowest in the
capital, which has the best social infrastructure and highest economic activity. Since the
 survey was conducted, the Government estimates that national poverty declined to 64.4
percent in2006. According to the Poverty Participatory Analysis (2007)13, the three main
 causes o f poverty are (i)    poor governance, with the main complaint being the abuse o f
power by state officials; (ii)    problems associated with insecurityor lack o f peace, which



 11Severalobligations towards IDA and the African DevelopmentBank (AfDB) could only be servicedwith
 delay as the Governmenthas been facing recurrent cash shortages during the first semester of 2008. Early
 disbursement of the IDA budget support in May 2008 and additional support from other donors donors
 (EC, AfDB) inthe second semester of 2008 helpedthe Governmentstay current with salary payments and
 external debt paymentobligationsfromMay 2008 onwards
 l2 This is based on a monetary definition of poverty, where the national poverty line is equal to
 CFAF156,079 (US$312)per year per adult equivalent.
 13The qualitative Participatory Poverty Analysis (PPA) undertakenin early 2007 aimed to gather public
 opinion onperceptionsofpoverty.


                                                   14

are connected to recent conflict^'^, but also reflect a deterioration in economic
opportunities that have led to the proliferation of urban banditry and extortion at road
blocks, even in areas not directly affected by violent conflict; and (iii)low incomes.
These concerns are reflectedinthe Government's PRSP.

40.      Social indicators place the CAR among the least developed countries of the
world (Table 4). The 2007/2008 UNDP Human Development Report ranks the CAR near
the bottom o f its Human Development Index (171'` out of 177 countries). This trend is
reflected in several health indicators: life expectancy has fallen from 44.8 years in 2000
to 43.7 years in 2005; the HIV/AIDS prevalence rate, at 6.2 percent for the 15-49 age
group in 2005, i s high although considerably below the double-digit rates found in a
number of southern African countries; maternal and infant mortality rates have increased
over time. Current policies aim to refurbish sanitation infrastructure, increase the
availability and quality o f basic health care, reduce infant and maternal mortality, and
fight diseases (including malaria, tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS). Some encouraging results
have already beenrecorded. For example, the immunizationprogram has ledto a surge in
the overallnationalimmunizationrate for DPT3 to 80 percent, despitesecurity problems.

41.      The situation in the education sector is also bleak (Table 4). Over a prolonged
period, disinvestment has taken place, resulting in the cancellation o f school years,
shortages inhuman resources due to inadequate recruitment and salaries, a glaringlack o f
material resources, and a serious deterioration in education efficiency indicators. In
2004/05, one child out o f four had never attended school, only 31 percent o f children
enrolled in primary school completed primary education and repetition i s rate high; only
62 percent o f those who completed primary education when they were young are literate
today (compared with 70 percent on average in other African countries). With donors'
assistance, the Government has prepared an education status report to identify constraints
for the reconstruction o f the education system. It i s now developing a strategy, including
quantifying and allocating the resources required, with a view to achieving the goal of
primary education for all." In December 2008, CAR was granted US$ 37.78 million
financing under the Fast Track Initiative for Education.

42.      Other social indicators are also poor. Only 7.6 percent o f the population uses
electricity as a source o f lighting. Finally, gender disparities are high, and the CAR i s
ranked only 153 out o f 177 countries in 2007 in terms o f the gender-specific human
development index.




 l4Years o f conflict have displaced a large proportion o f the rural population and destroyed important
economic and social infrastructure.
 15With regards to health, the Government validated a policy instrument, the Plan Pluriannuel Complet du
Programme Elargi de Vaccination           en RCA 2007-2011 (PPAC), which aims to expand the level of
vaccination among infants in all districts. In education, the Government developed the "Plan National
 d'Action de 1'Education Pour Tous" in 2003. The Ministry of Education with support from IDA and the
P81e de Dakar (UNESCO) elaborated an Education Country Status Report (CSR) inMarch 2007. A sector-
 wide (including education, vocational training and literacy) financial simulation model i s being finalized
 for elaborating a credible scenario o f long-term development o f the education sector (2006-2020).



                                                       15

43.       As a result of these trends,the CAR i s unlikelyto achieve its MDGs by 2015.
The public sector's contribution to the provision of basic social services is limited and
inequitable, which adds to the vulnerability o f the poor population, while the private
sector i s not equipped to fill the gaps in the provision o f these basic social services.16 In
its PRSP, the Government estimated the incidence o f poverty over 2006-2010 under two
scenarios. Under the prudent scenario, national poverty will decline only modestly, from
an estimated 64.4 percent in2006 to 61.3 percent in2010. The dynamic scenario projects
a much steeper fall inpoverty, to 56.8 percent, as a result o f higher economic growth and
a steep rise in public expenditure for the social sectors, infiastructure, and rural
development. However, the underlying macroeconomic assumptions o f this scenario are
unlikely to be met inpractice.



                                             Table 4: Selected Social Indicators

                                                                             Central African  Sub-Saharan         Low-income
               indicator                                                       Republic       Africa average    country average
               Population (in millions, mid-2005) 11                                4.0            743.1             2352.4
               Population growth (in percent, 1998-2005)                             1.5             2.4                1.9
               Gross national income per capita (US$, 2005)                      350.0             746.1               585.4
               Life Expectancy (years, 2005)                                      39.4              46.7               58.9
               Infant mortality rate (per thousand, 2005)                         115.0             96.3               75.1
               Access to an improved water source                                 75.0              56.2               75.1
               (percent of population, 2004)
               HIV/AIDS: Estimated prevalence rates (in percent, 2006)
                 By gender:
                    Male                                                             4.3               ...
                                                                                                                          I..

                    Female                                                           7.8               ...                ...
                  By age group:
                    15-49                                                            6.2              5.9                 ...
               Immunization rate (percent of children
               ages 12-23months; 2000-2005)
                  Measles                                                          35.0              63.6               65.0
                  DPT 2/                                                           40.0              64.8               65.8
               Child malnutrition (percent under 5 years; 2000-2004)               24.0              29.0               39.0
               Net primary enrollment rate (percent of age group;
                  1990-1995)
               Total                                                               52.0              64.0               79.0
                  Of which: Male                                                   63.0              68.0               82.0
                            Female                                                 41.0              60.0               75.0

               Sources: World Bank (Economicand Social Indicators,C.A.R. 2006 MDG Report.World DevelopmentIndicators),IMF
                           UNICEFand UNAIDS. Reporton the globalAIDS epidemic 2006.

                I / Population figures refer to the region, not the average.
               2/ In 2008, this ratio has increased to more than 80 percent for the C.A.R




                              E.THEGOVERNMENT ANDREFORMAGENDA         PRS

 44.       Prepared in a participatory manner, the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
 (PRSP) was adopted by Government in June 2007 and was well received by the

 l6  For example, the poorest 20 percent o f households benefit from only 8 percent o f public expenditure on
 primary education; implicit subsidies for public utilities (water and electricity) are not pro-poor; inaddition,
 while private andor community education provision has increased sharply inthe last few years, the quality
 i s generally poor and more than 40 percent of teachers are community teachers, untrainedand hired directly
 by families.


                                                                        16

community of donors. A number of specialized committees and technical groups have
led the PRSP process since its inception, and preparation for the PRSP included
substantial consultations with all stakeholders at the central, regional, and local levels in
the seven regions.

45.    The operationalization of the PRSP monitoring evaluation framework has
been slow. An institutional framework has been created by a Prime Ministerial note in
March 2008 to oversee the PRSP implementation, involving (i) National Strategic
                                                                      a
Committee under the leadership o f the Prime Minister, in charge o f the strategic
orientation and policies, (ii)the National Technical Committee in charge o f producing a
synthesized analysis o f progress made and identifiedobstacles; (iii) theNational Sectoral
Committees in charge o f coordinating the regional Committees and transmitting
aggregated data to the National Technical Committee; and (iv) the Regional Committees
responsible for collecting the data and recording achievements in each region, and
reporting to the National Sectoral Committees. Inputs feeding into the elements required
to carry out a proper evaluation o f the PRSP include a series o f surveys to be completed
(household, agricultural survey, employment, health and education). Operationalizing the
above framework will require significant resources. With IDA support, monitoring and
evaluation matrices have been elaborated during the course o f the year in collaboration
with the National Technical and Sectoral Committees. A draft Annual Report on the
PRSP Implementation i s being finalized, which highlights the most important
achievements over the course o f 2008.

46.     A mid-term review of the PRSP implementation shows that (i) donors'
funding has been responsive to the PRSP needs in 2008, and several key activities
have been implemented. As of November 15, 2008, US$755 million have been
mobilized to finance the PRSP activities for the 2008-2010 period, o f which US$408
million in 2008. The PRSP has four strategic pillars: (i)restore security, consolidate
peace and preventconflict; (ii) promote good governance and the rule o f law; (iii)   rebuild
and diversify the economy; (iv) and develop humancapital.

47.     Pillar 1.Restore security,consolidate peace and preventconflict.The Political
Dialogue that took place in Bangui in December, precededby peace accords and cease-
fire agreements, has been the most important achievement in 2008. Although security
remains a challenge, the Government has reduced the level o f road banditry by
dismantling 25 illegal barriersand setting up 96 legal barrierscontrol by the army.

48.     Pillar 2. Promote good governance and the rule of law. There has been
significant progress in this area with: (i)the adoption and the operationalization o f the
new Procurement Code; (ii)the operationalization o f the pennanent anti-corruption
Committee with support from development partners for the implementation o f its pluri-
annual action plan (France, UNDP, IDA). As a result o f the work o f this unit, a network
o f corrupt agents has been dismantled in the Tax Directorate and CAR i s now
participatingin, and committed to, the UNConventionfor the fight against corruption.

49.     Pillar 3. Rebuild and diversify the economy. Several activities spanning key
sectors have been recorded. In agriculture, the Etats Generuux o f Agriculture has been


                                            17

completed; support to households has been provided to increase productivity through
programs aimed at distributinginputs and equipments.In mining, CAR i s an official EITI
candidate and an audit o f the sector has been completed to inform future reforms. In
Forestry, a new Code has been adopted with assistance from development partners. In
Infrastructure, four main road axes have beenrehabilitated, totaling 1092 km, including
access to the port o f Douala.

50.     Pillar 4. Develop human capital. Actions aimed at achieving the Pillar four's
objectives include: inEducation,-measures to increase enrollment rate inprimary schools,
including recruitment o f 850 teachers and training of 450 teachers; distribution o f
approximately 4,500 school kits. CAR has been granted access to a US$38 million grant
to support the EFA-FTI programs. In HIT-AIDS, access to testing, care and treatment
centers has been enlarged with the creation o f thirteen (13) new care units, the upgrade
and equipping of care units in seven "prefectures. The Government has also made
considerable effort to increase spending in key sectors in the 2008 budget. The share o f
Health, Education, Social Affairs, and Agriculture inthe budget has increased from 25.7
percent to 32 percent between 2007 and 2008, and the increase i s more pronounced for
Health and Social Affairs which increased respectively from 8 percent to 12 percent and
from 1percent to 3 percent.


             111.          BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S
                                                 PROGRAM

   A. LINKTOJOINT INTERIMSTRATEGYNOTE                       (JISN) AND THE FORTHCOMINGCPS

51.      The Association Group (WBG IDA, IFC and MIGA) and the AfDB have
                                                  -
agreed to produce a joint Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for CAR covering
FYO9-12, inclose collaboration with other partners.The CPS follows on the Association
and the African Development Bank (AfDB) Joint InterimStrategy Note (JISN), outlining
support to the CAR for 18 months (FY07-08). Implementation o f the JISN by the
Association, the AfDB and the Government was generally satisfactory, in large part due
to positive collaboration among all parties, effective application o f principles o f
comparative advantage, and consistent rapid response to emergingcrisis.17




 l7eyfeaturesoftheJISNincludehelpingthe CAR: (i)
   K                                                         resolve its arrears to the two institutions, and to
multilateral development partners more generally, in order to restore substantial external support to the
country; (ii)begin benefiting from debt relief through access to the HIPC and Multilateral Debt Relief
(MDRI) initiatives as early as possible; and (iii) urgent needs on the ground, notably by rebuilding
                                                  address
minimal effectiveness o f the Government to set and execute policy and deliver services. Outcomes and
outputs achieved : (i)
                     clearance o f external arrears to multilateral creditors; (ii) o f cash advances for
                                                                                  control
non-salary recurrent expenditures; (iii)adoption of an action plan based on an institutional assessment o f
the miningsector and initiating the EITIprocess; (iv) reinsertion o f 7500 ex-combatants ; (v) strengthening
communities and other relevant stakeholders' ability to play a role inthe preparation and implementation o f
the PRSP; and (vi) recourse to counseling and voluntary HIV test. Outcomes to be achieved by the end
June 2009: (i)adoption o f standard investment agreement inthe mining sector; (ii)    implementation o f de 80
micros projects ;(iii)
                     implementation o f public works insuburban areas o f Bangui; and (iv) reaching HIPC


                                                     18

 52.     Aligned with the JISN, the EMGRG I1 supports Government's objectives,
 which are to spur economic recovery and strengthenpublic sector governance spanning
 public finance management, both from the expenditure and revenue perspectives,
 economic governance in key sectors such forestry, and mining. The JISN also explicitly
 identifies budget support as a key aid modality, fostering ownership, alignment with the
 country's development program, and domestic accountability. Budget support for a
 country like the CAR i s critical to ensure that the Government has the financial
 maneuvering space to implementing a policy reform package that aims to reduce
 fiduciary risk and enhance transparency and governance, This i s vital inorder to mobilize
 the external donor community to step up aid commitments, particularly in light o f the
 impact of the financial crisis and the financial difficulties over the past year.

 53.     Proposed areas for WBG engagement through the 2009-2012 joint CPS will
 continue to be fine-tuned over the coming months during discussions with the
 Government, civil society organizations, and development partners. Proposed
 objective o f the 2009-2012 CPS i s to promote strong economic growth and employment,
 through two main axes: (i)    consolidation o f state capacities and economic governance;
 (ii)and rehabilitation and development of basic socio-economic infrastructure, in
 particular energy, agriculture and rural development.

                         B.LINKWITHBANKGROUPOPERATIONS

 54.     Reengagement and Institution-Building Support Program (RIBSUP). The
 EMGRGI1builds on the achievements o f the RIBSUP which closed on November 30,
 2007. It was the first IDA financed operation in CAR since the country went into arrears
 in 2001. The main objective `of RIBSUP was to set the stage for a meaningful
 reengagement o f the donor community in a sustainable way and to assist CAR in its
 economic and social recovery underpinned by the Government's Economic and Social
 Policy Framework (ESPF). RIBSUP was assessed by IEG as satisfactorily achieving the
`stated objectives.

 55.     Economic Management and Governance Reforms Program I (EMGRG I).
 The EMGRG I1 also builds on the EMGRG Ireforms and aim to deepen reforms in
 public finance management and governance to achieve the medium-long-term objectives
 inpublic finance management andpublic sector andeconomic governance. The operation
 was approved in May 2008 and as o f December 2008 the Government has advance
 significantly with the underlyingprogram (Table 5).




  completionpoint Outcomes to be achievedby 2010-2011: reduction of time for traveling betweenDouala
                 .
  and Bangui.



                                               19

                       Table 5: Summary of EMGRGIFollow-OnActions

Follow-on action as spelled out inEMGRGI Status
Production o f quarterly budget execution reports    On track. Following the adoption o f new budget
from commitment to authorization for education,      execution procedures, including the adoption o f
health, agriculture, equipmenthansport ministries    new computerized system in the Directorate o f
                                                     Budget,   tracking   o f expenditures has been
                                                     improved with the release o f quarterly budget
                                                     report from commitment to payment for key
                                                     sectors to the PRSP (education, health, equipment
                                                     and infrastructure, and agriculture). That o f the
                                                     thirdquarter has beenproducedwith delay.
Submission o f 2008 budget execution law to the      On track. On the basis o f the production of
Parliament                                           budget execution report, the 2008 Execution Law
                                                     is on track. An international expert has been hired
                                                     under the LICUS TF to assist CAR'S experts in
                                                     this task.
Inclusion o f a budget line inthe 2009 budget for    Met. The budget for 2009 incorporates arrears
payment of Government arrears to ENERCA,             payment (10 percent o f 2007) tdutility companies.
SODECA, SOCATEL.                                     Inaddition, thebudgethas fullprovisionfor
                                                     utility consumption for 2009, which is a
                                                     benchmark for the IMF-PRGF program.
Propose a list o f accounts incommercial banks to    Met. A list o f 73 accounts incommercial banks
be closed and transferred to a Treasury account      has been audited by the IGF. Accounts with
under the control o f the Directorate o f the        negative balance have been endorsed by the
Treasury within a defined timeline basedon an        Government. Fifty-two accounts have been closed
audit by IGF o f existing Government bank            as o fDecember 2008. A closing schedule o f the
accounts held incommercial banks followed by an      accounts has been adopted by a ministerial note.
independent reviewlaudit o f accounts with
negative balance
Domestic arrears audit vetted by the authorities for Met. Domestic debt between 2005 and 2007 has
h
2005,2006 and 2007                                   beenvetted and incorporatedinthe Government
                                                     accounts.
Production o f Government accounts for 2008          Ontrack. Internationalexperts to assist CAR in
                                                     thistask havebeenhired. Over the course of2008,
                                                     the Treasury has uploaded expenditure data on a
                                                     regular basis. The 2008 Government accounts are
                                                     expected to be submittedto the Court o fAccounts
                                                     by June 2009.

                                                     Met. Six thousand (6,350) new taxpayers have
and ASYCUDA on the basis o f the results o f the     been identified bythe survey. The data base o f
national taxpayers survey                            taxpayers at the level o f tax Directorate has been
                                                     updated.
                                                     Met. Transfer o f customs revenue to the BEAC i s
                                                     effective.
Install networked systems between the tax and        Being finalized. Networking o f customs and tax
customs directorates and the pre inspection          Directorate was completed. Networking o fthese
company operating inCAR                              two entities withthe pre inspection company is
                                                     being hampered by the distance between the
                                                     locationo f the pre inspection company and both
                                                     Directorates. A solution is being worked out but



                                                    20

 Follow-on action as spelled out in EMGRGI             Status
                                                       inthe meantime, data are now transferred to
                                                       customs and tax directorate on a regular basis.
 Production and dissemination o f an anti-conuption    On track. A draft anti-comption strategy is being
 strategy                                              finalized under UNDP assistance.
 Production and dissemination o f an annual            On track. A pluri-annual programhas been
 programo f the anti-conuption Committee and           finalized under assistance o f UNDP and circulated
 annual reports summarizing the efforts o f the        to development partners. The anti-cormption
 Government to be presented to the National            Committee plans to present its annual activities to
 Assembly                                              Parliament inthe March-June 2009sessions.
 Issue a decree concerning asset disclosure by         Met. A decree governing declaration o f assets has
 Government members, including sanctions and           been issued. It includes provisions on sanctions
 verification mechanism; specify a standard format     for defaulters and verification mechanisms, and a
 and guidelines for submissions.                       standard format to be usedby users. The format
                                                       has been used inthe most recent declarations by
                                                       highranking officials.
 Enhance transparency inthe area o fpublicly           Ontrack. The capacity o fthe Government's
 available information, by increasing information      website is being upgradedto allow for loading key
 available inthe Government's website                  information and documents

 Nomination o f members o f the new Direction          Met. Members o fthe DGMand ARMP have been
 Gdndrale deMarchds (DGM) and the Agence de            nominated bypresidential decree. These key
 Rdgulation de la Passation des Marches (ARMP)         entities have been allocated adequate budget
                                                       allocation inthe budget 2009
 Production o f manuals o f procedures and standard    Met. The SDB and OM have been finalized and
 biddingdocuments                                      shared with development partners
 Operationalizethe procurement departments             Met. The staff o f these unitshave been selected
 within four key ministries (education, health,        and will work under the authority o f the DGM.
 agriculture, and public works)
 Review compliance with new procurement                Carried over to EMGRG11.N o procurement
 procedures via a post-procurement review              activities under the new Code have beenrecorded
                                                       in2008. The compliance reviewwas rescheduled
                                                       for 2009, therefore this measure will be sustained
                                                       inthe EMGRGII.
 Redress VAT cross-liabilities betweenthe State        On track. A conventionbetweenthe Ministry o f
 and operators inthe forestry sector and re-establish  Finance onbehalf o f the Government and the
 regular payment o f all fiscal obligations to be paid private the sector is being finalized, stipulating the
 by operators                                          compensation mechanismto be implemented

 Establish downstreampetroleum legislation,
 including rules and regulations, inconformity with On track. The experts have been recruited. The
 international best practice                           revision o f the texts governing the sector is under
                                                       wav.



56.      Low-Income Countries Under Stress (LICUS) Trust Fund. Since 2004 three
projects, financed from the LICUS Trust Fund, totaling US$13.2 million have supported
technical assistance capacity building, the PRSP process, reforms in Public Finance
Management, forestry, mining, and public administration and civil service reforms. In
particular, the LICUS I1TF has allowed for carrying out: (i) audit o f the Treasury, (ii)
                                                                          the
the audit of the miningsector, (iii) and customs administration reforms including the
                                             tax
audit o f the fiscal system in the forestry sector, the reconciliation o f the VAT base
betweenthe BEAC and customs, (iv) and the creation of a unifiedpayroll management


                                                      21

system. A March 2008 LICUS project supported the implementationof social servicesby
protecting salary payments o f civil servants during a period o f severe cash constraints in
March-April 2008 untilfurther external resources could be mobilized. The LICUS I11TF
sustains technical assistanceto support the implementationof the HIPC triggers related to
the modernization o f the public administration, the implementation of the EITI, and the
revision o f the miningcode. Annex 5 provides details o fthe activities financed by LICUS
Trust Fundsthat are relevant to and related to this budget support operation.

57.    Supporting Stabilization Through Improved Accountability (US$ 50,000).
This TF proposes to use funds set aside under the CAR'S LICUS I1envelope for stability
and security to strengthen these reforms by broadening the scope o f the PFM work in
CAR to include targeted and carefully defined analysis o f the security sector. The
proposed activity i s based on the Association's comparative advantages and mandate to
assist the CAR'S Government in identifying areas for improvement to strengthen
financial management and budgetary processes and to minimize leakages in CAR'S
security sector and agencies. A Public Financial Management Review o f the Security
Sector will be based on the PFM Performance Measurement Framework. As such, the
main objectives o f the review will be to conduct a careful analysis o f security sector
expenditures related to (i) predictability and control inbudget execution, (ii) accounting,
recording and reporting, (iii) external scrutiny and audit, (iv) budget comprehensiveness
and transparency, (v) and policy-based budgeting. Inorder to ensure concrete gains, and
based on the findings o f the PFM review, the component will finance training activities
for civilian and military personnel geared toward improving financial management
practices in the security sector. Areas o f intervention could include, inter alia: budget
preparation, budget tracking, fiscal sustainability, public oversight, and transparency and
accountability.

58.     Another sub-component seeks to improve State accountability through enhancing
the communication channels between the central Government in Bangui and the
population throughout the national territory. This activity therefore proposes to
rehabilitate the country's primary link between Bangui and the rest o f the country - the
radio  - by strengthening the national radio's rural presence and its capabilities for
national broadcasting. These efforts will complement ongoing transparency efforts under
LICUS 11, as well as upcoming IDA-financed Local Development Project

59.     CEMAC Transport and Transit Facilitation project. This project aims to
secure access to landlocked countries, enhance regional integration and increase trade in
the CEMAC countries. It consists o fthree sub-components: (i) and rail investment;
                                                                  roads
(ii)investment in facilitation, inter-modalplatforms and port efficiency; (iii) support
                                                                                and
to customs reforms and institutional support to policy improvements. CAR Component o f
the project funded by IDA (US$24 million) mainly consists o f a contribution to the
paving o f the Douala-Bangui link, as well as support to road maintenance, customs
reform, and transport policy design.

60.     CEMAC Africa Backbone. This project aims to support population, businesses
and Governments across the Central African region to have access to quality and
affordable ICT services by lowering the cost o f international broadband capacity, and


                                             22

 extending the reach the o f backbone networks. It i s also expected to improve Government
 efficiency and transparency through the development o f eGovemment applications. A
 US$45 million regional investment project will in the first phase cover Cameroon, CAR
 and Chad.

 61.     Emergency Response to the Food crisis. This US$7 million project financed
 from the GFRP TF as part o f a comprehensive response includes two main components.
 The first component is a Food Access program aimed at (i)implementing safety net
 programs to financehbsidize public works or cash/food-for-work for small subprojects
 prepared with communities and civil-society organizations addressing emergency needs
 such as rural water supply systems and drainage; (ii) coordinating school feeding
                                                            and
 programs with WFP and targeting students from vulnerable households inurbanand rural
 areas, including Pigmy areas. The second component consists o f enhancing food
 production and marketing and addresses supply-sideissues by financing import of seeds,
 vegetable material, and agricultural inputs and supportingcritical agricultural advice; and
 investmentinimproved logistics (e.g., storage, transport, other infrastructure).

 62.     Emergency Energy Project. The total cost of the project is US$8 million. The
 project aims to (i)rehabilitate Boali hydropower generation. Implementation o f this
 subcomponent is coordinated with AFD which participate in the power generation
 program; (ii) purchase and install about 20,000 pre-paid meters to improve collection and
 prevent waste o f energy; (iii)
                               introduce efficient lighteningdevice to reduce peak demand
 through Fluorescent Lamp Program and other Energy SavingMeasures to accrue both to
 the consumers (increased availability of power supply at peak hours, reducedpower bills
. and much longer life o f light bulbs) and to the country (reduced fuel consumption and
  avoided investments for peak load capacity); (iv) and implement a loss Reduction
 Program through an action plan to reduce nontechnical power losses, technical assistance
 and training for the power loss reduction program, and support for institutional reform
  and strengthening.

  63.    Inaddition to its direct link to the predecessor operations (RIBSUP and EMGRG
  I)andtheLICUSTrustFundedactivities, theproposedGrantisintegratedintothe
  Association's overall portfolio (Annex 5) including investment projects, and economic
  and sector work (ESW). The IFC's Conflict Affected States in Africa (CASA) and
  Ventures Programs support investment climate reforms and the local SME sector. As o f
  June 30, 2008, IFC has no committed portfolio in CAR, but recently posted a
  Representative in Bangui, whose main duties are to: (i)help improve the country's
  business environment and investment climate; (ii)build institutional capacity in
  regulatory bodies to enable reforms and re-assure investors; (iii)help local financial
  intermediaries to develop products for the SME sector; (iv) and develop capital markets
  inCentralAfkica.




                                               23

                     c.RELATIONSWITHIMFAND           OTHER DONORS

64.     A limited number of key donors are active in the CAR. The EC, the IMF,
France and the UNDP are providing support in a number o f areas, including public
finance management, justice sector reforms, and governance.

65.     The proposed operation has been elaborated within close consultationwith
the donor community active in,theCAR. There has been extensive consultation with
the donor community, in particular the AfDB, `EC, France, the IMF and the UNDP, to
ensure better coordination and harmonization among donor supported reform programs.
The AfDB has prepared its October 2008 budget support operation based on a jointly-
prepared reform program matrix, and supervision o f the reform program by both
institutions has been done in a coordinated fashion. The IMF and The Association also
coordinate closely measures aimed at improvingpublic finance management. By contrast,
other budget support donors continue to use their own conditionality framework despite
the Association's efforts to develop a common and hlly harmonized multi-year
framework for this and the predecessor operation. Efforts are currently underway with the
creation o f a donor committee on PFM (COSUFABI) to harmonize donors' program
(Table 6). Coordination o f proper sequencing aligned with Government's needs and the
budgetcycle also represents an area o fimprovement.

            Table6: Areas of coordination of donors' Budgetsupport/external aid

                    IDA -EMGRGI(on-going)        IMF           AfDB           EC (2009)
                     and/or EMGR I1(2009-10)    2008-09       2008-09
Cashmanagement                                    X                              X
Settlement o f                 X                  X             X                X

Tax and customs    1           X                  X             X




66.      The IMF Executive Board approved a PRGF supported program in December
2006, with the goal o f economic recovery and maintaining macroeconomic stability. The
third review was completed on December 22, 2008. The core program reforms include:
(i) enhancing public resource mobilization and efficiency o f spending; (ii)improving


                                             24

liquidity management and increasing the financial sector's contribution to growth; (iii)
and improving the business and investment environment. The periodic assessment o f
CAR'S macroeconomic performance by the Fund serves as a key input for dialogue on
policies related to macroeconomic stability and for ensuring timely payment of salaries
and external debt servicing. The IMF and IDA are coordinating closely reforms inPublic
Finance Management andjointly supervise the HIPC process.

67.     The AfDB has been actively providing budget support to the Government o f the
CAR to implement the country's 2007-2008 Economic Report Support Program (ERSP).
Aside from the current harmonization o f support to the Government program, the AfDB
i s providing technical assistance inthe area o f mining, inparticular with the EITIprocess,
debt and data management, as well as developing capacities to design, implement, and
monitor investment projects. Lastly, as noted above, the Association and AfDB are
preparing ajoint Country Partnership Strategy to be completed by mid2009.

68.      EC AREMIF project. This project supports (i) upgrade of the budget and the
                                                           the
production o f the new Chart o f Account, (ii)    the strengthening o f the internal control
system (Directorate of Financial Control and the General Inspectorate o f the State - IGF),
(iii)reforms in customs departments, in particular the computerization of customs
database and the strengthening of the capacity of customs agents. EC technical assistance
i s also provided to support the ethical code in customs; (iv) reforms in justice, in
particular the drafting o f the sector strategy, the strengthening of various units and the
ministry's personnel,     and the improvements o f prisoners'          conditions; (v) and
procurement reforms.

69.      EC Forestry Projects. The EC supports the forestry sector in CAR through
regional conservation programs. The Central Africa Forest Ecosystems (ECOFAC) which
started in the early 1990s aims at ensuring, in the long term, the preservation and
sustainable management o f natural resources in the Congo Basin area. The EC also
supports a regional wildlife conservation program that focuses on endemic species such
as gorillas and elephant. The objective o f the EC/WWF project, which was effective in
April 2008, is to reduce poverty among the indigenous people living around and within
the Dzanga-Sangha protected area. Lastly, the EC i s supporting CAR'S access to the
AFLEG system and recently co-organized a national workshop with the Government in
Bangui with the participation o f all relevant stakeholders.

70.      UNDP. Inpublic expenditure management, the UNDP has organized a series o f
training aiming to strengthen budget preparation, especially the capacity o f staffs in the
Ministry of Planning and other line ministries (education, public works, health,
 agriculture) to design a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) in line with the
PRSP objectives. In the area o f tax administration, the UNDP has completed a
 comprehensive tax-survey which allowed for expanding the tax base, and reforms in
public administration and civil service. The UNDP also finances the revision o f the
National Investment Charter and has active programs in the areas o f governance and
justice. Inthe area o f governance, the UNDP i s financing technical assistance to support
 the Government inits efforts to finalize an anticorruption strategy. It also helped finalized
 and operationalize the asset disclosure program.


                                              25

71.    France has a number of long-term experts working in the Ministry of Finance
(ARCAGE project) providing technical assistance to the staff of the Directorates of
Budget and Treasury. The,quarterly budget reports produced by the authorities have
relied on the use o f a computerized system installed at the level o f the Directorate o f
Budget. As o f December 2008, the link betweenthe Directorate o f Budget and Treasury
had not yet been achieved. The Treasury has used homegrown software to produce
accounts for Government operations. France i s now supporting the rolling out of the
Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) at the central level. A
ministerial decision has been issued in this regard, In forestry, the objective o f the
PARPAF project is to help the forestry administration in the preparation o f Forest
Management Plans for sustainable harvesting within the areas allocated to holders of
logging permits. The project whose second 4-year phase started in 2006, aims at setting
the stage for sustainable forest management in the productive forest, in a way that can
perpetuate the economic as well as the ecological functions o f forests ecosystems. In
energy, AFD is coordinating closely with the Association to rehabilitate the Boalipower
generation.

72.    GTZ. The German cooperation ongoing support to the forest focuses on the
protection o f biodiversity and forest ecosystems inthe Dzangha- Sangha reserve located
inthe western part o fthe country, onthe Congo Brazzavilleborder. It also helpsto fund a
participatory forest management project and to pilot a community developmentproject in
Lobaye inthe south and Ouham inthe North o f the country.



                             D.ANALYTICALUNDERPINNINGS

73.     Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) and the Public
Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA). The CFAA was finalized in
October 2007. This report identified a series o f deficiencies and shortcomings in the
CAR'S public financial management system. It includes a global action plan o f
recommendations on the legal and institutional framework, budget and expenditures
management, and customs and tax administration. The PEFA exercise (FY08) pointed to
weaknesses in financial accountability arrangements in the public sector, including the
absence o f budget execution reports and reliable Execution Law and Government
accounts incorporating extra-budgetary expenditures and donor financing. The PEFA
underscores the need for redressing weaknesses inthe accounting system and the need for
exhaustive and harmonized accounting and budget nomenclatures. Lastly, the PEFA
emphasizes the need for a forward-looking budget to support in a sustained manner
policy priorities spelled out in the PRSP. The public finance management policy areas
included in the EMGRG I1are those identified as critical by the CFAA and the PEFA
including initiating MTEF inkey sectors, better control o f the Treasury over Government
operations and resources through, inter alia, the adoption o f exhaustive accounting
nomenclatures to be followed by an harmonization with the budget nomenclatures, and
continued reductiono f accounts heldincommercial banks.




                                             26

74.      Diagnostic Trade Integration Study (DTIS). The Diagnostic Trade Integration
Study (DTIS; FY07) examines the constraints to regional and international trade
integration. It identifies the dire situation o f the country's public finances, in particular
the low level o f tax revenues as one o f the significant problems that affect the country's
competitiveness through its impact on infrastructure. The continued deterioration in the
social sectors has likewise led to an erosion o f the CAR's human capital, compromising
the situation for future generations. The EMGRG I1 explicitly focuses on the need to
improve capacity o f the Government to mobilize domestic revenue, throughimproved tax
administration, especially improvements in tax and customs management through the
alignment o f the National and Regional Investment Charters as recommended by the
DTIS.

75.      Debt Management Performance Assessment (DEMPA). The CAR is among
the first countries selected for this debt management technical assistance. It i s a technical
assistance which aims to strengthen capacity and institutions to manage Government debt
in an effective       and sustainable manner, by assessing performance through a
comprehensive set o f performance indicators spanning the full range o f Government debt
management functions. The DEMPA exercise provided a baseline o f debt management
performance indicators, on which the country's future debt management performance
will be assessed. It is a valuable tool which assists the Government in improving debt
management capacity which i s particularly important ina country with history o f external
debt arrears.

76.      Country Procurement Issues Paper (CPIP). A CPIP was completed in April
2006. It includes an assessment o f the country's public procurement system and proposes
an action plan to improve and align procurement processes with internationally-
recognized standards." Actions recommended in the CPIP include the adoption o f a new
procurement code with regulations for standard bidding documents and guides, and the
establishment o f new procurement institutions. N o w that the new Procurement Code i s
adopted and key entities are in place, the EMGRG I1supports the Government's efforts
to operationalize the new procurement procedures, mainly by strengthening the legal
framework to provide incentives to the private sector to participate in public biddings,
among the benefits o f which are lower unit costs and preventive measures against abuses
and vested interests.

77.      Anti-corruption surveys and reports. Since 2005, the UNDP has been actively
supporting the Government o f the CAR in its efforts to fight corruption. In this regard,
and incollaboration with Transparency International, UNDP published(i)report on the    a
findings o f a household and company survey on the perception and causes o f corruption;
(ii) astudyonc~rruption.'~Thesurveyfoundthatamongprivatesectormanagers,
     and
corruption i s .considered the second most pressing development priority, after security

18CAR's procurement system had last been assessed inFebruary 2003, with financing from the EC. This
earlier assessment had recommended the need for significant  reforms given the extent of the problems
uncovered. A draft procurement code was prepared, but was not adopted as many institutions, including the
Ministryo fEquipment andTransport, believed it was not adapted to national circumstances.
   UNDP and Transparency International, Enqugte sur la corruption aupris des me'nages et des
entrepreneurs (Decembre 2005); Etude Sur le SystdrneNationale d 'Zntegrite'(December 2006).


                                                 27

concerns, and i s a top development priority among households. The corruption study
analyzed the level o f corruption, its causes and consequences, and made a series of
recommendations. Among the factors identified as contributing to the existing level of
corruption was the absence o f a national anti-corruption strategy and a culture o f
tolerance vis-&vis corruption. One of the main recommendations made by the study i s
the ratification o f the UNConvention against Corruption, (UNCAC), which was done in
October 2006. The EMGRG I1 will support the implementation o f some o f the key
recommendations o f the report aimed at accelerating CAR'S adherenceto the UNCAC.

78.     Forestry sector assessment. The Government carried out a forestry sector
assessment in 2004 to update information in the forestry sector and understandthe poor
performance o f the sector. This study recommended the need for ensuring that all permits
are associated with management plans, transparent allocation o fpermits, and the adoption
of new regulations aiming at promoting sustainable forest management, which is now
being incorporated in the new forestry Code. Another study was launched in 2007 to
assess the efficiency o f the tax collection system, compliance o f private operators with
the nationaltax regulations, andthe distributionanduse ofrevenues from the sector to all
relevant entities, including communities. The initial findings o f that study suggest that
there i s room for improvement to ensure transparency and competition in the system o f
allocation o f timber harvesting rights. Likewise, the tax collection and management
systems could be improved. The reform program supported by the EMGRGI1will help
the Government to sustain performance o f the forestry sector by providing incentives to
the private sector and secure access to international markets in the near future by
initiating adherence to the AFLEG system which also helps combat illegal timber
exploitation.

79.      To develop analytical inputs for environment and natural resource management
policy reform program, the Association has worked with the Government, development
partners and civil society organizations to prepare a Country Environmental Analysis
(CEA). The CEA will consist o f three elements, focusing on (i)      the costs and principal
sources o f environmental degradation, (ii)institutional capacity for environmental
management, (iii)     and priority sectors in which to strengthen policies, build institutions
and invest for sustainable growth. The priority sectors addressed in the CEA were
identified by the Government in collaboration with development partners and civil
society stakeholders.

80.      Mining Sector Review. CAR has abundant natural resources including strategic
minerals such as uranium and high-value minerals such as diamond and gold.                 An
assessment o f mining sector operations in CAR was recently conducted by the
Association. This study confirmed the need for strengthening capacity at all levels. First
and foremost, the study concludes that improvements are needed on the regulatory
framework surrounding mining activities. Indeed, the current mining law, associated
regulations and licensing practices were assessed as non favorable to both investors and
the country. Second, fiscal instrumentsare no longer adequategiven mountingchallenges
caused by increased investor interest and investment in the mining sector in CAR over
the past years. Third, the study identified major institutional bottlenecks impeding the
smooth functioning o f mining sector operations and leading to a propensity to encourage


                                              28

smuggling, marginal revenue gains for the Government and lack o f transparency by
major actors including small-scale miners, mining police and buying houses in the
country. These weaknesses are being addressed in the new Code under preparation.
Lastly, the Government has demonstrated a strong will to improve transparency in the
mining sector with a first noticeable step being CAR'S recent admission as an EITI
Candidate Country. The EMGRG I1supports the recommendations o f the mining sector
study by suspending issuance o f new licenses before the adoption o f the new Code, and
supporting the use o f new forms o f standard agreements for the sector.

E.Lessons Learned

81.     Ina context of scarce resources, a Development Policy Operation is an effective
way o f addressing a range o f issues critical for Government effectiveness. It helps set the
stage for medium-term reforms. However, the operation should be focused and
sequenced with a reasonable milestone framework. In the case of CAR, predecessor
operations have contributed to progress in governance o f forestry and miningsectors, as
well as in strengthening procurement and public finance management. The previous
DPOs have also been instrumental inensuring continued support from other development
partners.

82.     Sustaining external financing support in fragile/post conflict countries, aligning
disbursement with the budget cycle, inparticular HIPC countries, and close dialogue are
critical to ensure effective financial support and continued efforts to sustain reforms.
Duringthe interim period o f HIPC, CAR has been dependent on timely and predictable
delivery o f support, particularly early in the fiscal year. Had the Association not
disbursed the LICUS project to support payment o f salaries in the social sector, CAR
would have been in a difficult financial situation, which could have disruptedthe pace o f
reforms and led to arrears. Close dialogue, reinforced through field presence and use o f
videoconferences have been used to work with Government to identify critical measures
supported by the Association, preferably already under a predecessor operation (even if
operations were not formally treated as programmatic). This, in turn, has assured
sustained implementationwith predictable disbursement cycles.

83.     Government capacity needs to be significantly enhanced to sustain the
implementation o f the reform program. Reforms need to be backed-up by pre identified
sources o f financing to maximize the chance for full success. With regards to the
EMGRG I,the key reason for the significant progress in meeting the development
objectives, was the availability o f LICUS I1and LICUS I11resources (see Annex 5). Six
months after the EMGRG Iwas approved, most o f the agreed follow-on measures have
been met.

84.     Donor coordination i s a key piece o f the success. The Association and AfDB have
coordinated their budget operations under the EMGRG Iusing the same matrix o f
reforms. AfDB's prior actions were a sub-set o f the Association's follow-on actions. This
has allowed the Government to move the EMGRG Igovernance and PFM agenda
forward swiftly. Therefore, the Association will continue promote further harmonization
o f donors' programs.


                                               29

                                IV. THE PROPOSEDGRANT

                                 A. OPERATIONDESCRIPTION

85.     Development objectives. This operation directly supports two pillars o f the CAR
PRSP: (i)   promoting good governance and the rule o f law (pillar 2); and (ii)  rebuilding
and diversifyingthe economy (pillar 3). The objective o f the Economic Management and
Governance Reform Grant I1(EMGRG11) i s to sustain and deepen reforms supported by
the predecessor operations (RIBSUP, EMGRG I). proposed grant focuses on two
                                                       The
main policy areas: (i)strengthening public finance management; and (ii)improving
public sector and economic governance. Pubic finance management i s understood as
public expenditure management and tax and customs administration. Public sector
governance i s understood as procurement, transparency and fight against corruption.
Economic governance i s understood as transparency and the quality o f the regulatory
framework intwo key areas (forestry andmining).

86.      Benefits.This single tranche IDA financing will strengthen the institutional
infi-astructure needed to improve the public sector's capacity to carry out its role more
effectively and support growth by (i)     enhancing transparency and strengthening control
o f Government operations, (ii)    improving revenue mobilization capacity; (iii)improving
the legal environment for the private sector to engage inprovision of goods and services
to the public sector; (iv) ensuring the implementation o f the EITI principles and new
Mining Code dispositions; and (v) improving governance in the forestry sector. In
particular it i s expected to lead to (i) review o f comprehensive reports o f Government
                                         the
operations by external oversight bodies; (ii)a reduction o f number of Government
accounts in commercial banks from 73 to a maximum o f 21; (iii)an upgrade o f the
master file database o f the tax and customs administration; (iv) comprehensive review o f
exemption conventions; (v) review of awarding of contracts (for at least 70 percent
compared to less than 20 percent currently) using competitive bidding process for
investment in the public sector and resolution o f at least 70 percent o f cases by Bidders
complaint unit; (vi) granting o f all permits in the mining sector using new standard
investmentagreement as per the new miningCode; (vii) transfer of forestry tax funds to
the communities as per the threshold set by the Law; and (viii) and progress in
implementing the AFLEG system in the forestry sector. The funds provided under the
EMGRGI1will also provide resourcesto contribute to the responseto revenue losses as a
result o f the financial crisis. Inaddition, the proposed reform program i s expected to lead
to improvements in PFM and governance that should enhance the credibility o f the
Government's program and thus help attract more donor support, in particular budget
support

87.      Prior actions. The Association i s supporting the Government in its efforts to
implementits public finance and governance reform program, following assurances that
it is committed to carry on with the implementation of these reforms. Box 1 provides a
summary o f the prior actions that the Government has already undertakento implement
the program supportedby this grant operation.




                                               30

I                              BOX1:Prior Actions for this Grant Operation

                         A. Improve the Efficiency of Public Finance Management

 Prior action 1. The Government has adopted by decision (Arrete) o f the Minister o f Finance a revised and
 more comprehensive accounting nomenclature inline with the OHADA standard

 Prior action 2. The Government has increasedthe budget allocation for the Court o f Accounts by at least
 100percent and by decision o f the Ministero fFinance designated the President o fthe Court o fAccounts as
 budget administrator.

 Prior action 3. The Ministry o f Finance has requested by an official letter that fifty-two (52) Government
 accounts held in commercial banks (CBCA, ECOBANK and BPMC) be closed immediately and that the
 balance on said accounts be transferred to a designated treasury account at the centralbank

 Prior action 4. The master file o f the tax and customs database has beenupgraded with the registration of,
 and the assignment o f an identification number (NIF) to 6,350 new taxpayers as confirmed by a report from
 its Deputy General Director for Taxes and Customs

 Prior action 5. The Minister o f Finance has instructed by a ministerial note the General Directors for
 Customs and Tax to provide systematic feedback on exemption conventions signedby the Recipient to the
 Inter-ministerial Committee in charge o f Tax and Customs Duty Exemptions (CICEFD) and to give
 CICEFD full access to ASYCUDA (for customs) and SYSTEMIF (for tax directorate) databases

                          B. Strengthen Public Sector and Economic Governance

 Prior action 6. The Recipient has adopted by Decree the General Conditions o f Contract related to
 procurement by the Recipient and other public entities

 Prior action 7. The Recipient has designated by Decree the members o f the Permanent Secretariat o f the
 Regulatory ProcurementAgency, and by Decision fromthe President o f the Recipient's Bidders complaint
 unit (Comitt de Rtglement des Diftrends), has designated the members o f the Bidders complaint unit

 Prior action 8. The Recipient has suspendedbypresidentialDecree the issuance o fnew mining licenses
 untilthe adoptiono f a newmining Code

 Prior action 9. By decision from its Minister responsible for forests, the Recipient has instructed the
 authorities o f each forest commune on the Recipient's territory to disclose information pertaining to the
 forestry revenue sharing mechanisms between the Recipient and the communities and the amount from
 local taxes paid by forestry operators accruing to communities




                                                        31

                           BOX2: Good PracticePrinciples on Conditionality

Principle 1: Reinforce Ownership

    The PRSP was approved in 2007 following extensive participation and consultations and has been
    implemented since then.
    The country has had a positive policy reform track record.
    The Association has had extensive discussions with the authorities on policy options and the
    Government has designed the reforms according to its needs, notably inPFM and governance.

Principle 2: Agree up front with the Government and other financial partners on a coordinated
accountability framework

    The accountability framework (e.g., policy matrix) for measuring progress under the Government
    program has been discussed with all key departments involved inthe programand higher authorities
    The operation has been discussed with donors in the country providing budget support and the
    monitoring an evaluation system may benefit other donors aiming to participate inthe medium term in
    budget support. Inparticular, the PFM measures will feed into the COSUFABI's framework - donors'
    framework for coordination inPFM

Principle 3: Customize the accountability framework and modalities o f Bank support to country
circumstances

    The budget support operation focuses on measures to address immediate bottlenecks inpublic resource
    management and governance, as part o f a broader Government reform strategy. They closely reflect
    urgent priorities ineconomic management and avoid areas o fpolitical sensitivity such as privatization.
    The Government has expressed its policy intentions and many o f the policy reforms have already been
    initiated.

Principle 4: Choose only actions critical for achieving results as conditions for disbursement

    Prior actions and conditions focus on critical actions to assure early improvement in the managemenl
    o f public finance management and governance. All o f these have already been undertaken by the
    authorities.
    Prior action for the mining sector, in particular, represents the Government's response to receni
    international concerns over transparency inthe attribution o f miningpermits.
    Prior action for the forestry sector ensures a fully transparent management o f forestry taxes and
    enhances accountability o f the executives

Principle 5: Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable and performance-based
financial support

    The country's domestic accountability and M&E cycle has been recently established as part o f the
    assessment o f the PRSP's first year implementation although it i s not yet grounded in a regula]
    process.
    One mid-term review o f the PRSP implementation has been conducted to promote results focus taking
    into account the limited indicators available in the country and the short period available to have
    visible impacts (1 year).
    A series o f reviews has been conducted over the course o f 2008 to ensure swift and satisfactor)
    implementation o f the EMGR I,which has allowed an early preparation o f the EMGRG 11, in a waq
    that allows for starting aligning the disbursement o f its proceeds with the budget cycle.




                                                     32

                                         B.POLICYAREAS

88.      Annex 2 summarizes a set o f policy measures taken by the Government before the
negotiations o f this operation, and lays out the follow-on measures. The measures are
organized under two broad policy areas - public finance management and public sector
and economic governance.

     COMPONENT 1.IMPROVE THE EFFICIENCY OF PUBLIC FINANCE
                                        MANAGEMENT

Background and issues inpublic expenditure management

89.      CAR'Spublic finance management was characterized by major weaknesses
(i) preparationhaslackedfullparticipationoflineministriesandthecivilsociety
   budget
which has led to insufficient allocation o f resources to strategic objectives; (ii)            budget
execution has been affected by recurrent cash shortages, use o f several exceptional
procedures and weak internal control and lack o f reliable accounting system. As a result
several operations have not been accountedproperly and it was difficult to compare voted
budget and budget outturn. Predictability has been flawed by missingregulations or Laws
and poor enforcement thereof; (iii)       and CAR'Sreporting system has been flawed by lack
o f coverage and timeliness undermining accountability. In addition external audit has
been ineffective.

90.      Public expenditure management has been at the center of the Government's
program and actions over the last three years and progress has been made.
Predecessor operations (RIBSUP and EMGRG I) - have assisted the Government in
public expenditure management reforms and have been instrumental in setting the stage
for a modern legal framework for the budget, including the adoption o f an organic Law.
These actions have been informed by several analytical studies: the CFAA completed in
2007 and an audit o f the Treasury and the PEFA report completed in the first quarter o f
2008, the recommendations o f which had already been partially addressed by the
Government.

91.      The Government has improved budget preparation.Consultation mechanism
with lineministries and the civil society duringbudget preparation have been established.
Currently, efforts are being made to improve budget preparation, inparticular by aligning
expenditures with sector priorities. The share o f these key sectors in the budget
(education, health, social welfare, infrastructures, and rural development) has increased
from 34 percent in 2007 to 38 percent in 2008 with the increase in the allocation to
infrastructure, health, and education particularly notable. CAR has also started making
progress in increasing intra-sectoral allocations for the PRSP priority areas.20However,

~




2o For example, ineducation, the share of the budget allocated to primary education increased inthe 2008
budget although this allocation [0.47 percent] remains much lower than that o f higher education [2.22
percent]. Within primary education emphasis was placed on the sector's priorities including construction
and rehabilitation as well as equipment of classroom, training and recruitment of teachers, as well as


                                                  33

alignment o f expenditures with the PRSP priorities remains uneven, and allocations for
rural development, the fight against diseases and epidemics, and potable water in small
towns and rural areas, fell in2008.21

92.      Increase in allocation for key sectors is coupled with efforts to prepare a
medium-termexpenditureframeworkwith assistance from development partnersto
further strengthen the link between expenditures and priority sector plans.A MTEF
Committee including the Ministry o f Planning and key ministries such as Health,
Education, Equipment, and Agriculture has been created and strengthened under
assistance from UNDP and Pole Dakar in 2007. Sector ministries have developed
medium-termsectoral programs usingthe indicators developed for the PRSPmonitoring-
evaluation system. The Ministry o f Planning and the Ministry o f Finance have also
started to coordinate the budget preparation in order to consolidate the recurrent and
investmentbudget discussed with andprepared by the line ministries.

93.      Budget execution has been put under tight control. New budget execution
procedures, clarifying modalities and accountabilities, aimed at simplifying and reducing
the number of steps to be taken to process expenditures, is now inplace. The autonomy
o f the financial control Directorate has been restored and followed by the deployment o f
its units inline ministries.

94.      The Government has started to improve the accounting system. New budget
classifications were used for the 2008 budget and include administrative and economic
classifications under EC assistance. The budget nomenclatures have beenimproved over
the course o f 2008 and include now a functional classification. New accounting
classification has been adopted in March 2008 and i s being used to record the Treasury
operations. However, efforts need to be sustained to further improve the quality o f the
accounting nomenclatures to allow for comprehensive recording o f Government
operations. In particular, an AFRITAC mission in September 2008 recommended its
alignment with the regional OHADA standards.

95.      Efforts have also been made to strengthen the control of the Treasury over
Governmentoperations. Underthe supervision of a Treasury Committee, the numberof
exceptional procedures has been reduced and cash advances have been more closely
monitored. Similarly, issuance o f Treasury checks has been limited to cash-backed
checks. The Government i s also determined to establish a Single Treasury Account.
Fifty-one accounts held in commercial banks have been closed and the balance on said
accounts transferred to a designated Treasury account in March 2008. A list o f 73
accounts has been reviewed by the General Finance Inspectorate, followed by an action
plan aimed at closing and transferring their respective balance to a Treasury account
under the control o f the Directorate of the Treasury within a definedtime line according
to the nature o fthe accounts.

distribution o f manuals. Similarly, inhealth, the allocation for primary health care increased strongly, from
a low base.
   Government i s lacking data on a comprehensive budget that includes external donor support. It is
therefore not clear to what extent declining allocations in the domestic budget reflected expected donor
support inthese areas.


                                                      34

96.     With regard to reporting, the Government has started producingquarterly
budget reports including specific reports on key sectors (health, education,
equipmenthfrastructure). Currently, budgetary operations are centralized within the
Directorate o f Budget where line ministries' expenditures are recorded in an automated
system developed under technical assistance from the French Cooperation. At this stage,
the Treasury is using separate system to record payment operations and the transfer o f
data to the Directorate o f Budget i s done manually. Basic functional processes, the
regulatory framework, and organizational structures responsible for them have been
strengthened to ensure completeness o f data capture. For instance, Treasury agents have
been deployed in all line ministries generating revenues to account for operations
(revenues and expenditures) at this level. The limited number o f daily operations allows
for such a system to produce quarterly budget execution reports from commitment to
payment. These reports have been shared with development partners who provide
comments on aregular basis.

97.     Lastly, it is the Government's intention to strengthen external control and
enhance accountability.Currently, the Government is preparing the 2008 accounts and
Execution Law which would be submitted respectively to the Court o f Accounts and
Parliament. The Court o f Accounts i s being strengthened with planned support under
assistance financed by the Association starting in January 2009 on accounting principles
and standard review o f Government accounts. France i s also preparing assistance for the
Courts of Accounts aimed at strengtheningcapacity within this organ control.

98.     Continued efforts are needed to sustain reforms aimed at improvingbudget
management and the efficiency of Treasury operations. In particular,this operation
will support: (i) upgrade o f the accounting system with regional and international
                    the
standards; (ii)the strengthening of control organ to carry out external auditing o f
Government operations.

99.     Prior action 1. The Government has adopted by decision (Arrete) of the Minister
of Finance a revised and more comprehensive accounting nomenclature in line with the
OHADA standard. The current accounting nomenclatures have been improved to allow
for recording o f Government operations in a comprehensive manner aligned with the
OHADA standards.

100. Prior action 2. The Government has increased the budget allocationfor the Court
of Accounts by at least loopercent and by decision of the Minister of Finance designated
the President of the Court of Accounts as budget administrator. Inview o f the key role
the Court of Accounts will play inreviewing Government accounts from 2008 onwards,
the Government has taken steps to allocate increased resources to the Court of Accounts
based on ajoint needs assessment by the Ministry o f Finance and the Court of Account,
leading to a much higher budget increase from CFA 4,750,000 in 2008 to CFA
24,750,000 in 2009. In addition, to fully operationalize this organ control, the President
o f the Court o f accounts has been entitled to manage its resourceshudget allocation
previously under the prerogative o f the Ministry o f Justice. Such a situation has delayed,
and often reduced actual transfer o f resources to this organ control, thereby hampering its
ability to fully play its role as external auditor.


                                                35

 101.   Prior action 3. The Ministry of Finance has requested by an oficial letter that
fi$y-two (52) Government accounts held in commercial banks (CBCA, ECOBANK und
BPMC) be closed immediately and that the balance on said accounts be transferred to a
designated Treasury account at the central bank. This operation supports the
Government's continued efforts to reduce the number o f Government accounts in
commercial banks to improve liquidity management and the comprehensiveness o f the
accounting o f Government operations and reporting. As o f end March 2008, 51 already
were closed, and the balances transferred to a set o f linked Treasury accounts in the
central bank (BEAC) through which the Government transacts all payment and
centralizes cash balances. The Government has audited the remaining accounts in
commercial banks and closed fifty-two (52) accounts, the balance on which was
transferred to a designated account o f the Treasury at the central bank.

 102.   Key next steps include

          Use a MTEFfor key sectors (education, health, equipment and infrastructure,
         agriculture) for the budget in 2010. In order to improve the visibility o f the
         poverty reduction programs, the Government plans to start using an MTEF for
          these key sectors and incorporate it as annex in the 2010 budget. Such an
          exercise i s key for improving the predictability and the alignment o f the budget
         with priority policies listed in the PRSP. Key ministries already have well-
          developed sector strategies and medium term expenditure plans and this
          exercise i s being extended to all line ministries. The Ministry o f Planning and
          the Ministryo fFinance have started to coordinate budgetpreparation inorder to
          consolidate the recurrent andinvestmentbudget.

      0   Submit to Parliament the 2010 budget with harmonized budget and accounting
          nomenclatures. Both nomenclatures would need to be harmonized after the
          adoption o f the accounting nomenclatures to improve the clarity o f budget
          reporting and how budgetary resources are used. It will be followed by the
          presentation o f the 2010 budget to ensure comprehensiveness and proper
          accounting of Government operations.

          Complete the networking of the Budget Directorate and the Treasury. In order
          to ensure the reliability and credibility o f reporting, the Government has
          adopted by ministerial decision the rolling out o f an IFMIS- at the level o f the
          Budget and Treasury Directorates     - with assistance from technical assistance
          underthe French cooperation program. The computerized system at the level of
          the Directorate o f Budget is already operational and will be linked with a
          treasury module being currently developed under the French Cooperation
          technical assistance.

          Submit the 2008 and 2009 Government accounts and Execution Laws
          respectively to the Court of Accounts and Parliament. The Court o f Accounts
          plans to review Government accounts for the first time inCAR. Over the course
          o f 2008, the Treasury has recorded Government operations on a regular basis
          and a special unit has been created to collect data for 2007 in order to create a


                                              36

         2008 entry balance. International experts will be hired under the LICUS TF to
         assist CAR in producing the 2008 Government accounts and recruitment i s
         underway. Similarly, the 2009 Government accounts will be submitted to the
         Court o f Accounts. The Government will also present to Parliament the 2008
         and 2009 Execution Laws. Quarterly execution reports are beingproduced since
         March 2008 from commitment to payment, which lay the foundations for the
         production o f the Execution Laws.

         Observance of the closing and transfer schedule of accounts held in commercial
         banks. The reduction o f accounts held in commercial banks and the transfer o f
         their balance to a set o f Treasury account has helpedreduce idle balances that
         increase the borrowing needs o f the Government and strengthen Treasury
         control over Government resources. The Government is determined to
         implement an action plan aimed at closing the remaining accounts held in
         commercial banks and transferring their balance to the Treasury account in
         order to move swiftly to a Single Treasury account.

   Background and issues in domestic revenue mobilization

103.   Averaging 7 percent o f GDP over the last decade, CAR'S tax revenue i s among
the lowest inthe world due to a small tax base, and weak revenue mobilization capacity,
including lack o f adequate equipment and poor management.

104.   Several actions have been taken in the recent past to enhance revenue
mobilizationcapacity. In customs, the Government has cancelled the contract with the
company in charge o f running a pre-clearance office inDouala, as recommended by the
audit o f the pre-clearance system and on the basis o f its poor performance. The
networking o f the customs offices between CAR customs in Douala and Bangui with
ASYCUDA (the automated system for customs data) is now operational. Customs
receipts are transferred to the BEAC instead o f commercial banks, eliminating at the
same time the offsetting mechanisms set up by commercial banks, thereby increasing
cash at the disposal o f the Government. With regard to the tax Directorate, the national
survey to identifynew taxpayers has been completed which allowed for identifying6,350
new taxpayers. Lastly, the networking o f the customs and tax directorates has been
completed to ensure timely and accurate revenue collection.

105.    The tax system will be reviewed and assessed by the IMF in 2010 but in the
meantime, the Government has adopted various tax measures including an automatic
formula for petroleum prices and the elimination o f low tax for building materials. The
thorough review o f all Codes and the national and regional Chart included in this
operation would inform tax policy inthe near future.

 106.   CAR has had a significant amount of foregone revenues due to tax and
customs duties exemptions over the past years. Exemptions management has been
flawed by (i) of ex-ante and ex-post control o f compliance with regulations; (ii)
               lack
arbitrary decisions which often open door for fraud and abuses; (iii) the absence o f
                                                                      and
proper regulations and regulatory bodies. According to official statistics and studies, on



                                             37

average, total exemptions have amounted to at least one-third o f total tax revenues
officially collected over the past years. For instance, customs exemptions officially
recorded in the first semester o f 2008 amounted to CFA6 billion vs actual customs
revenues o f CFA12 billion22.

107.     T o redress such weaknesses, an inter-ministerial Committee - Comite
Interministeriel Charge des Exonerations Fiscales et Douanieres or CICEFD                            -,
including members from line ministries (mining, forestry, commerce, foreign
affairs, planning, finance) and organ controls has been created by Decree in
December 2007        -  but became operational only in April 2008                  -   to rationalize
exemption management.CICEFD has as remitto (i)                review requests for exemptions and
issue recommendations to the Finance Minister who i s the sole signatory o f exemption
conventions; (ii)   establish an exhaustive list o f beneficiaries over the last three years, (iii)
audit, monitor and control beneficiaries' compliance with the terms o f exemptions
granted, (iv) review compliance existing exemptions with the existing regulation
(Regional and National Investment Charters, tax and customs as well as sectoral Codes),
(iii)andpropose an actionplanto the Government aimed at rationalizingexemption
management.

108.     CICEFD has startedimplementingactivitiesfallingwithin its mandate.Ithas
produced a first report submitted to the Government, including the results o f the number
o f exemption requests treated and the recommendations it has issued as well as a
preliminary analysis o f the coherence between.al1 texts governing exemption^^^. It also
has established an exhaustive list o f exemptionbeneficiaries.

 109.    CICEFD is not yet fully equipped to meet its objectives.First, effective control
i s hampered by the absence o f a legal framework that ensures that CICEFD has legal
prerogative to receive feedback on decisions with respect to exemptions granted or
rejected. Second, this entity does not have access to the ASYCUDA and SYSTEMIF
database to monitor on a regular basis exemptions applied by customs and tax
directorates, which hampers effective control on exemption operations and close
monitoring of beneficiaries' compliance with the conventions signed with the
 Government.

 110.    This operation supports Government's program aimed at improving
 domestic revenue mobilization capacity. Immediate measures supported under the
 grant include (i)  attribution o f identification number to newly identified tax payers by the
 tax Directorate, (ii) the strengtheningoftax exemption management through a ministerial
 note instructing systematic feedback to CICEFD on exemption conventions signed by the
 Government and full access to the ASYCUDA and SYSTEMIF database.

 111.     Prior action 4. The master file of the tax and customs database has been
 upgraded with the registration      OJ and the assignment of an identijkation number (NIF)

 22Source: Customs and Tax Directorates - 2008; Evaluation des ExonCrations Fiscales et Douaniires en
 Rtpublique Centrafricaine -Investissement Dtveloppement Conseil financed bythe EC, 2005,
 23Between April and November 2008, twenty requests have been submitted, of which five have been
 granted. Source: CICEFD - Ministryof Finances.


                                                  38

to 6,350 new taxpayers as conJirmed by a report from its Deputy General Director for
Taxes and Customs. This measure has allowed for updating and enlarging the tax base.
Since the networking o f the tax and customs unitshas beencompleted under the EMGRG
I,itwillalsoallowforproperverificationoftaxandcustomsdeclarations,timelyand
accurate revenue collection, and detecting fraud and malpractices, thereby improving
revenuemobilization capacity.

112.   Prior action 5. The Minister of Finance has instructed by a ministerial note the
General Director for Customs Tax to provide systematic feedback, on exemption
conventions signed by the Recipient, to the Inter-ministerial Committee in charge of Tax
and Customs Duty Exemptions (CICEFD) and to give CICEFDfull access to ASYCUDA
for customs) and SYSTEMIF (in the tax directorate) databases. This measure will create
a sound legal framework and an environment conducive to the success o f this reform,
thereby enhancing transparency and minimizing fraud and tax losses. It will support
CICEFD to meet its remits and carry out its definedtasks.

113.   Key next steps include:

         Install networked system between the CICEFD unit with the tax directorate
         database (SYSTEMIF) and customs (ASYCUDA). Building on the network
         systembetweenSYSTEMIF andASYCUDA, the Government will link the unit
         service o f CICEFD with the networked system in order to ensure systematic
         control o f exemption operations.

         The inter-ministerial committee (i) publishes semi-annually in media networks
         accessible to the general public the list of tax exemptions, including the total
         amount, the list of beneJiciaries and conventions; (ii) presents the results of its
         activities to Parliament on an annual basis. In order to establish proper
         accountability mechanism for checks and balance and transparency, the
         Government will adopt these measures which will also help raise debate and
         awareness about tax exemption policies andpractices among decision makers.

         Align the Investment Code with the Regional Charter and sectoral Codes (tax
         and customs Codes, and mining andforestry Codes). The Government plans to
         adopt this measure in order to reduce potential discrepancies between the two
         Charters and sectoral Codes. Such a review will allow the Government to
         harmonize legal texts and regulations governing exemptions and to make
         adjustment to existing exemptions in case of discrepancies with national
         regulations by bringing them back under normal regime o f taxation. Lastly, it
         will reduce significantly the scope for frauds and abuses.




                                            39

       COMPONENT 2: STRENGTHENPUBLIC SECTORAND ECONOMIC
                                            GOVERNANCE

Background and issuesfor anti-corruption

114.     As a signatory of the UN convention against corruption, the CAR has made
progress in setting a legal framework for fighting corruption and the CAR'S
ranking in Transparency Index rank has improved from 162 of 180 countries in
2007 to 151 of 180 countries in 2008. Under the predecessor operations, the
Government was successful in revamping a set o f institution^^^, including a permanent
anti-corruption Committee as interlocutor and coordinator or reform champion within the
Prime Minister office. The Committee has a broad remit to formulate, coordinate and
monitor anti-corruption efforts and provides CAR with an improved framework and
oversight mechanism. This committee comprises members o f organ controls,
representatives o f each anti-corruption bodies and the civil society (NGOs and
representatives o f the private sector). The prominent role played by the civil society in
the fight against corruption i s expected to create an environment whereby state capture
and corruption are increasingly put under scrutiny. An action plan detailing the list o f
activities and o f the Committee has been produced and presented to development
partners. The Committee i s receiving financing from UNDP and France to ensure
sufficient infrastructure capacity to deliver. An annual report summarizing the efforts o f
the Government will bepresented to the NationalAssembly inMarch2009.

115.     The Government has also strengthened the legal mechanisms of
accountability, aimed at further reducing the scope for vested interest. The
Government has issued'a decree governing asset disclosure, specifying who must declare
assets, the form and content o f the disclosure aligned with international practices, and the
sanctions for not abiding by the deadline or for failing to submit. Members o f the cabinet
and Constitutional Court already have declared their assets and a presidential decree
extended this obligation to highly ranked public officials involved in managing public
resources in November 2008. All concerned officials25 are submitting to the General
Inspectorate o f the State (IGE) their declarations. Declarations are open to scrutiny and
publicly available, as per Article 44 o f the Constitution and the Decree issued in
November 2008.

116.     Lastly, the Government has created an office "Bureau des Usagers" within the
office o f the General Inspectorate o f Finance (IGF) in July 2008. This measure aims to
allow for alleging corruption or complaining about abuses. The General Inspectorate o f


24  :That includes (i)an operational branch of the judiciary, the "Tribunal de Grande Instance" to better
monitor the processing o f filed cases, (ii)
                                           the P6le Financier du Tribunal de GrandeInstance de Bangui (it
i s a special section of the tribunal created in July 2005, with a remit to investigate fiscal, financial, and
customs fraud, as well as trafficking o f influence), (iii)the Agence Nationale d'hvestigation FinanciBre
(ANIF), created in September 2007 to investigate money laundering and terrorism. These measures have
led to a significant increase in4he number o f cases o f suspected corruption under investigation, over 287
individuals since 2006, and inthe number o fpenalties imposed
25 The Heads of the Tax and Customs Directorates, organ controls, and public enterprises.


                                                      40

the Stateis incharge of conducting the preliminary investigations andreport to the Court
iftheallegations arebasedonsolidgrounds.

117.     The Government i s committed to sustaining efforts to ensure effective
infrastructure for the fight against corruption. Such a success requires effective
coordination o f the Anti- Corruption Committee and governance institutions, appropriate
strategies and structure, and effective and adequate legal framework. Follow-on actions
o f the EMGRGIhad as objectives to strengthenstructures and strategies, and governance
institutions. These reforms are underway. Development partners (France, UNDP) are
involved in supporting anti-corruption reforms, including support for thejudicial system
bythe EC.

118.     There is no prior action for this component. However, this operation aims to
consolidate gains over the past year under the EMGRG I.Planned reforms consist in
strengthening the legal framework to help CAR pursuethe UNconvention agenda'against
corruption in order to reinforce its panoply o f legal instruments and strengthen anti-
corruption bodies.

119.     Key steps are:

          Curvy out a GAP analysis with respect to compliance with the UN Convention
          against corruption Box 1. Members o f the Anti-corruption Committee have
          attended the UN Convention conference in October 2008 to represent CAR in
          such a summit for the first time. CAR ratified the UN Convention in February
          2006 and one would expect that bynow it would have made significant progress
          inmeeting its obligation under international law. Inorder to align CAR'S anti-
          corruption legal framework with international practice and comply with the
          dispositions o f the UN conventions, the Government will conduct a GAP
          analysis by looking provision by provision at where the Government i s and
          what remains to be done and/or revisedstrengthened. The Government i s
          committed to carry out a participatory analysis including magistrates, organ
          controls, anti-corruption agencies, and the civil society. Such a process will
          allow for facilitating understanding o f the challenges, reflecting on priority and
          sequencing o f reforms, ensuring the anti-corruption legal framework and
          agencies are effective. A report is expected to be released every semester by the
          Anti-Corruption Committee to ensure progress inthis area.

          Adopt a Law to protect whistleblower. With the development o f a stronger legal
          framework and the adoption o f several dispositions to fight corruption, the CAR
          will also adopt a Law to protect whistleblowers in order to create an
          environment whereby citizens will not fear unpunished retaliation and are
          encouraged to allege act o f corruption.




                                             41

 Box 3: Checklist of Key Actions Requiredof Government adheringto the UnitedNations
                                     ConventionAgainst Corruption

    Establish a merit system for the civil service
    Promulgate a code o f conduct for all public officials and endeavor to require officials to disclose
     outside activities, employment, investments, assets, and gifts that may give rise to conflicts o f interest
    Create a public procurement systembased on transparency, competition, and objective selection
     criteria with legal recourse for violations
    Enhance transparency inthe organization, functioning and decision-making processes o f the public
     administration by such measures as freedom o f informationlegislation
    Institute a comprehensive regulatory scheme to prevent money laundering and consider creating
     financial intelligence unit to receive, analyze, and disseminate reports o f suspicious transactions
    Outlaw the offering or soliciting o f a bribeby a public official, influence peddling, the abuse o f a
     public position, and illicit enrichment
    Ensure the concealment o f these acts, the obstruction o f corruption investigations, and attempts to
     commit corrupt acts are criminal offenses
    Provide a long statute o f limitations for bribery and other corrupt acts and provide for its suspension
     when an offender has evadedprosecution
    Make sure the penalties for corrupt acts reflect the gravity o f the offense, that immunities for public
     officials are not overbroad, and that ifthere is discretion to prosecute it is exercised with due regard
     for the need to deter corruption
    Establishprocedures to freeze, seize, and confiscate the proceeds o f corrupt acts and permit those
     injured by corrupt acts to initiate an action for damages
    Remove any obstacles posedby bank secrecy laws to investigating corruption
    Take adequate measures to protect those who witness or report corrupt acts
    Establish measures that encourage participants incorrupt acts to disclose their actions; consider
     providing such individuals with immunity or reduced sentences inreturn
    Cooperate with other Governments on anticorruption investigations and prosecutions through
     providing informationrequestedby another Government and complying with extradition requests, or
     inthe case ofits ownnationals either extraditing or prosecutingthem
    Ensure that the proceeds o f corrupt acts committed inother states and located inits territory can be
     promptly returned



Background and issues in procurement

120.     Under the predecessor operations, the Government was successful in

Following a thorough review o f the procurement process - including the legal and
revampingthe legal frameworkfor publicprocurementand a set of key institutions.

regulatory aspects - andthe production o f a Country Procurement Issues Paper (CPIP) in
2006, CAR adopted a new procurement Code inJune 2008 with assistance from IDA and
AfDB,followed by the operationalization of new institutions created bythe procurement
code, including staffing and equipment. These include the Direction Gbne'rale des
March& (DGM) and the Autovite' de Re'gulation de Passation des Muvchds (ARPM).The
DGMis a separate directorate within the Ministry ofFinance, involvedwith prior review
o f key steps o f the procurement process while the ARPM i s responsible for the overall
oversight and regulation o f the procurement process, including dealing with disputes and


                                                       42

complaints regarding the bidding process. The ARPM i s also in charge o f modifying and
amending procurement rules and regulations if required and will produce annual
procurement audit reports on new tenders. Procurement departments within four key
ministries (education, health, agriculture and infrastructure) are being created, staffed and
equipped as a two-year pilot.

121.   Operational manual of procedures is being finalized and standard bidding
documents have also been adopted to fully operationalize the new framework. The
manual describes the new purchasing practices with regard to the goals, benefits and
policies as well as what the department expects with regard to performance and conduct.
It also addresses the modalities and statutes to apply, regulations, policies, procedures
and best practices applicable to all facets o f statewide purchasing authority. Likewise, the
standard bidding documents aims to ensure that new bids are submitted as per the
requirements o f the new procurement code. Both aspects are part o f the process o f
implementing the new procurement rules and regulations.

122.   The revamping of the legal framework and the creation of a new set of
institutionshas in turn creatednew challenges. First, capacity within the public sector
i s weak and the Government's own resources are insufficient to finance all key activities
to operationalize the new structures and the legal framework. Major financing would
need to be mobilized ifthe current framework were to be effectively used for regulating
procurement process in CAR. There is a shortage o f skilled staff to serve in the recently
created institutions and a need for training to effectively use the various documents
underpinning the new legal framework. A national action plan has been validated by
ministerial decision (Arrete) and presented to development partners. Given the lack o f
Government resources to operationalize the vast procurement reforms and the need to tap
into potential partners to provide financial support for the implementationo f the reforms,
the Government plans to organize a roundtable with donors to present an action plan
aiming at achieving the modernization o f procurement practice in CAR. Alternatively,
the Government could organize, inFebruary 2009, a one-day information workshop with
the participation o f key Government structures involved in the procurement reform, and
representatives o f the civil society, the media, and the private sector and development
partners. Such an event could be followed by a meeting o f the Donors
Monitoring/Coordination Committee on Public Finance Management (PFM) - with a
focus on procurement issues. The outcome o f the Donors Committee could be to better
integrate procurement into the PFM reform and coordinate support, with the view o f
covering financial gaps, if any, inimplementing the core o fprocurement reform.

 123.   Second, chronically slow or delayed payments to contractors and liquidity
problems for vendors have led to mounting arrears, and resulted in loss of
confidence of private suppliers as well as major cost increases of public investments
because the tendency is for bidders to compensate for commercialrisks and delays,
with a premiumadded to unit costs. Moreover, there has been no recourse possible in
cases o f abuse or favoritism and no provision for the payment of late interest. As a result,
competition remains ineffective and the development o f a sound private sector i s
jeopardized. Inturn, such a situation has led to significant use o f exceptional procedures,
thereby undermining the budget execution procedures.


                                               43

124.    The recently adopted Code instructs enforcement of the provisionaimed at
making mandatory payment to suppliers within 60 days following the delivery of
goods and/or services. Bidding documents and contracts will clearly reflect this
obligation. Such an initiative will restore the confidenceof the private sector and bring
private suppliers into the public channel by providing them with incentives to supply
goods and services at a competitive price. Monitoring of interestspaid for late payment
wouldthenbe usedto evaluateperformanceof sectors andprograms.

125.    This operation will support actions aimed at ensuring that private supply meets
the invitationto tender function.

126.    Key prior actions include:

      0  Prior action 6. The Recipient has adopted by Decree the General Conditions of
          Contract related toprocurement by the Recipient and other public entities. Such
          a measure will ensure that the dispositions governing the working relationship
         betweensuppliersandthe State are legallybindingandreflectedinthe contracts
          signed by both parties. It will ensure that the suppliers' right to use appeal
         mechanismsis recognizedandenforcedincase of conflict.

      0  Prior action 7. The Recipient has designated by Decree the members of the
         Permanent Secretariat of the Regulatory Procurement Agency, and by Decision
         from the President of the Recipient's Bidders complaint unit (Comitk de
         Rkglement des Diffe'rents), has designated the members of              the Bidders
          complaint unit. In order to operationalize the regulatory body and allow it to
         play its role the Governmenthas adoptedtwo keymeasures: (i)has nominated
                                                                           it
          the members o f its permanent Secretariatin charge of coordinatingthe work o f
          the ARPM, (ii)and it has activated a Bidders Complaint mechanism by
          nominating its members in order to introduce anti-conuption measures and
          channels for appeals. The latter entity i s in charge of dispute settlement. Such
          measures will complement the incentive package aimed at creating favorable
          conditions for the private sector to supply goods and services to the
          administration.

127.    Key nextsteps include:

          Review compliance with new procurement procedures of FY09 and FYI0
          budget. This review aims to ensure that the new institutionsthat have beenput
          inplaceare staffedandfunctioningadequatelyinlinewith thenewprocurement
          code and the dispositions adoptedby the Governmentto provide incentives to
          the private sector. The ARMP will carry out this task and will present it to the
          Parliament.

Background and issuesfor natural resources

128.    Mining is the second largest export commodity in CAR and plays a key role
in poverty-reduction and growth, and revenue generation. Today in the CAR, the



                                             44

miningsector consists o f the artisanal exploitationo f diamonds and gold. Approximately
10 percent o f the active population i s engaged in artisanal mining activities. Large
companies operating in CAR are still under exploration phase. With potential export
revenues and foreign direct investment, several firms are now engaged in negotiation
with CAR.

129.     The absence of sound legal framework has often resulted in lack of
confidence in the regulation and conflicts between the Governmentand the private
sector that have affected CAR'Sattractiveness: lack of streamlined convention has
resulted in the absence o f a level playing field    and uneven treatment o f operators, and a
loss o f Government revenues in some cases; and the absence o f a formal and transparent
channel o f accountability has undermined the credibility o f the sector and the
Government.

130.     Improving transparency in the management of mining has been the
approach adopted by the Government to improve the sector's attractiveness.
Significant progress has been made by CAR with support from the predecessor
operations. CAR i s now an EITI official candidate and data on revenue for 2006 will be
published in the EITI website. The mining Code i s being amended to reflect best
international practice and a standard investment agreement form will be adopted for
negotiations between the State and the private operators. This operation will support
actions aimed at deepening governance and strengthening attractiveness o f the mining
sector.

131.     Key prior actions include:

         Prior action 8. The Recipient has suspended by presidential Decree the issuance
         of new mining licenses until the adoption of a new mining Code.The Government
         i s in the process o f finalizing the revision o f the Mining Code. It has taken action
         to suspend granting o f new permits untilthe adoption o f the new Code inorder to
         ensure compliance o f new licenses to international practice. Monitoring o f this
         prior action will involve non-government entities as an oversight body, especially
         the EITIcommittee.

132.     Key nextsteps include:

         Publication of the 2007 and 2008 EITI revenue accounts. The Government plans
         to sustain compliance with the EITI principles by producing the 2007 and 2008
         EITI accounts and publishingsaid accounts in the EITIwebsite. This will send a
         strong signal to investors that CAR i s engaged in irreversible reforms and is
         committed to improve governance.

         Systematic application of the new standard investment agreement forms to new
         investment. The absence o f standard agreement has led to lack o f security o f
         tenure and transparency in the mining titling system. In addition the absence o f a
         sound legal framework governing signature bonuspayments is conducive to poor
         governance. The Government will use new standard investment agreement


                                                 45

         systematically drawn upon the relevant provisions o f the new Code to ensure
         transparency and fairness with the view to create a level playing field for
         investors but also to maximize the returnfor the country.

133.     Forestry.There has been significantprogress in improvinggovernance in the
forestry sector over the past years with the support of the predecessor operations
(EMGRG Iand RIBSUP). CAR has produced a new Forestry Code to ensure that
timber harvesting rights are allocated on the basis o f market mechanisms26;issuance of
new licenses has been suspendeduntil its adoption; and the Government took actions to
initiate due process for firms not complying with the national fiscal regulations.




     Beneficiaries           Stumpage Fee (YO)        Forest regenerating taxes (YO)         Area-taxes (YO)
Treasury                              40                               25                           70
CAS DF                                30                               50                           30
Communes                              30                               25                            0
Total                                 100                              100                          100


135.     While the mechanisms in place and actual transfers of the funds to
communities have helpedaddress some of their basic infrastructureneeds, transfer
of revenues has been erratic as a result of urgent and pressing competing needs.                              29

Amounts transferred to communities as a percentage o f taxes paid by concession holders
have not been adequately recorded and acknowledged to communities, which requires


26Among the main aspects o f the new Code feature dispositions aimed at (i)    modernizing and strengthening
the preparation and implementation o f forestry management plans; (ii)      revising criteria for attribution o f
harvesting permits; (iii)
                        tightening tax reporting and collection arrangements; (iv) improving arrangements
for sharing forestry revenue with forestry communities; and (v) enhancing the feasibility o f small-scale
forestry and community access to forest markets, thereby ensuring sustainable resource use.
"DecisionsonresourceallocationarebasedonclearcriteriaaspertheFinanceLawin2001,andtakeinto
'*Forest
account objectives at regional, national, local and community levels.
          revenues are based on the volume o f timber cut, area o f forest concession, and also include fees to
cover administrative cost, includingthose o f regenerating forest and preserving the forest, non-timber, and
environmental values.
29Those include market places, schools, rehabilitation o f communes' offices and bus stations etc.


                                                      46

corrective measures. In addition, while revenue has been transferred directly to
beneficiaries inthe past, in December 2008, a presidential note instructed the transfer o f
revenues collected to a Treasury account in the BEAC in order to ensure proper
accounting o f public resources and to comply with the Single Treasury Account
principle. Although such a decision i s commendable from the public finance
perspectives, there i s a need for mitigating the risk o f delay in transferring resources to
communities.

136.    The forestry sector has been affected by the current global slowdown with
potential adverse impact on growth, exports, domestic revenue, and poverty
reduction/social development programs. A large committee comprising, forest
companies and various departments (Ministries o f Finance, Forestry, and Interior) has
been set up to reflect on measures aimed at mitigating the impact o f the crisis on the
sector including the spreading o f area taxes over six months in 2009 and revision o f the
mercurial taxes. It should be noted that there are no trade issues involved in the crisis in
the forestry sector. The shock is channeled through lower timber demand due to sluggish
market.

137.    In order to secure its access to internationalmarkets, as many countries in
the region3', CAR has taken key steps toward adhering to AFLEG to secure its
access to the EU markets in the future. The purpose o f the AFLEG i s to promote good
governance in the forest sector by combating the threat posed to forests from illegal
logging, illegal trade, and wildlife poaching. Preliminary actions have been taken
including (i) nomination o f a focal point o f FLEGT/AFLEGin April 2007, (ii)the
               the
transmission o f a letter to the EC to start Voluntary Partnership Agreements (VPA), and
(iii)and the creation of a national Committee of FLEGT/AFLEG inJune 2008 to
implement the VPA. An action plan was discussed in a national workshop in December
2008 andhas been adoptedbythe Government.

138.    The challenges facing the Government that this operation will help address are to
(i) transparencyinrevenuesharingandcontinuedtransferoffundstocommunities
   ensure
inorder to capitalize on the recent social/poverty reductionachievements, and (ii) thelay
foundations for opportunities to deepen CAR'Saccess to the international timber market
inthe medium-term.

139.    Key prior actions include:

        Prior action 9.By decisionfrom its Minister responsible for forests, the Recipient
        has instructed the authorities of eachforest commune on the Recipient's territory
        to disclose information pertaining to the forestry revenue sharing mechanisms
        between the Recipient and the communities and the amountfrom local taxes paid
        byforestry operators accruing to communities. While there have beensome forms
        o f communicationthrough announcement on a local radio and information shared
        by representatives o f communities working closely with concession holders,


30Cameroonis already a member ofthe AFLEG, DRC andCongohave startedthe process to become
members of the AFLEG.


                                              47

          communities have not been fully advised o f the revenue standing to their credit
          and the mechanisms underlyingthe revenue sharing inplace. With this measure,
          the Governmentis determinedto put inplace a transparent information system.

140.      Key next steps include:

          Implement the Government action plan to move the AFLEG agenda forward
          Table 1. Such an approach entails the implementationo f CAR'Saction plan which
          would include, but i s not limitedto: (i)
                                                  developing a clear and agreed definition o f
          conflict timber; (ii)developing mechanisms to conduct independent forest
          assessment and monitoring (e.g independent observers in Cameroon); (iii)and
          improving access to information through the strengthening o f local and national
          mechanisms for sharing and exchanging information on forest management
          (concession agreement, concession map production, and export data for timber
          products, tax payment by logging companies, report on forest infraction). CAR's
          action plan foresees completion o f the AFLEGprocess inthe last quarter o f 2009,
          which would trigger a donor round table aimed at mobilizing financing for its
          implementation.




Multidonor round table
to finalize the financing                          To be determined
modality o f the AFLEG




                                               48

                        V. OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION

                             A. POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT

141.    The actions supported by the Grant are expected to have positive poverty
and social impacts.Joint World Bank and IMF staff assessments o f the CAR'S PRSP
have emphasized the need for more explicit policies on public finance and governance
reforms. To achieve faster poverty reduction, this development policy operation focuses
on public finances. First, tax reforms are expected to support domestic revenue
mobilization capacity by increasing the tax base and improving exemption management
while enhancing accountability o f the executives. Second, budget reforms will help
ensure that domestic and external resources are used effectively, minimize fungibility and
state capture are minimized, and the budget can be used as a tool for poverty reductionby
improving the accounting system and enhancing external oversight o f public resources'
use, thereby making it easier to scrutinize the extent to which voted budget allocations
and actual public expenditures are inline with the PRSP objectives.

142.    As spelled out in the PRSP, poor governance is perceived to be the top cause
of poverty. The reforms supported by the Grant propose measures aimed at supporting
the Government's efforts to improve procurement processes, and enhance transparency
and accountability innaturalresourcesmanagement. First, procurement reformswill help
render operational the new Code, key provisions o f which aim to reduce scope for
capture by vested interests and misuse o f public resources, while protecting the private
sector's interests. Second, the mining and forestry reforms are expected to reduce capture
by vested interests and ensure proper returns on the country's assets to the population. In
mining, the suspension o f issuance o f new licenses until the new Code is adopted will
help align contractual procedures with international practices, and take into account the
social and infrastructure obligations of concession holders. In addition, this measure will
help channel resources to the public accounts in a transparent manner. Inforestry, a fblly
transparent information mechanism clarifying the communities' interests will help raise
awareness among community members about their rights, provide more funds for social
and basic infrastructure services, while strengthening the executives' accountability.
Taken together, these measures should improve the distributional properties o f state
activity, increasingly benefiting the poor segments o f society through better services.

 143.   Policy measures selected in this document have been informed by the
outcomes of various consultations involving relevant stakeholders. Consultations at
all levels took place over the PRSP preparation period to outline the main policy
measures that went into the PRSP and are supported by this operation, including reforms
on forestry, mining, and public finance management, as well as anti-corruption. In
addition to the PRSP consultations, several workshops were conducted over the course o f
2008 with the participation of relevant stakeholders, on which this operation builds: (i)in
mining, an EITIcommittee, involving the private sector and civil society was created in
the first semester o f 2008, and has begun to reflect on the objectives of the EITIand the
main actions to be taken to improve transparency in the sector; (ii)in forestry, a national
 workshop took place in December 2008 to confirm the willingness o f CAR to adhere to
 the AFLEG and finalize the action plan o f the Government. As regards the revenue-


                                             49

sharing mechanism, an evaluation mission conducted by the central Government on the
use o f the revenue accruing to communities took place in the last quarter o f 2009. The
outcomes o f the mission drew on consultations with officials elected at the decentralized
levels and the beneficiaries (communities). One o f the requests that emerged from this
mission i s the need for enhanced accountability o f officials and group leaders as regards
the use o f resources directed to communities; (iii)the anti-corruption Committee
regroups a number o f organ controls, all key line ministries, and the civil society as well
as the private sector and shows strong ownership o f the reforms proposed in this
document  .
                               B.ENVIRONMENTAL      ASPECTS

144.    Buildingon the recently adopted forest Code and drawing on the long-term
engagement of development partners, includingsignificant support for institutional
strengthening, reforms supported by the EMGRG I1 are likely to have positive
effects on the naturalresources, and forestry,The proposed reforms aim to strengthen
the Government's oversight of forest management plan and fight against illegal logging.
Since 2005, timber exports have been monitored on behalf o f the Government by an
independent body with the mandate to ensure compliance with operational requirements
from logging sites to export points. Ensuringtransparent information and the integrity o f
the traceability system o f the logging and commercialization cycle will complement the
existing tools such as inspection o f waybills for transportation o f timber products, mill
entry and exit books, and the cross-checking o f species and volumes o f timber exported
with the collection o f equivalent export taxes. In addition, the Association, in
collaboration with other development partners, i s undertaking a Country Environmental
Analysis (CEA) to help the Government establish the regulatory, administrative, and
technical capacity to identify, mitigate, andmonitor environmental issues ina sustainable
manner.

145.    The capacity of the administration has been strengthened through various
channels. Buildingon the results ofthe forest sector assistanceprovidedbyAFD through
the PARPAF project, which helped establish a forest Geographic Information System
(GIs), forest administration capacity has beenstrengthened through an agreement signed
in 2007 between the Government and the World Resources Institute (WRI), funded by
USAID through the Central Africa Regional Environmental Program (CAREP). Under
this contract, WRI i s helping the forest administration in mapping logging areas,
protected areas, as well as hunting and safari zones, with field inspections being
conducted in logging areas by a special unit of the forest administration. Specific
attention i s being paid to the monitoring o f logging activities and the enforcement o f
forest management plans. The system allows the forest administration to compare timber
harvests with the results o f forests inventories, monitor skid trails and logging roads, and
check compliance with other management requirements in order to ensure sustainable
management o f forest. In addition, an independent monitoring contract with the pre
inspection agency in CAR organized a series o f training on methodologies to ensure
proper tracking and identification o f illegal logging for the forestry, tax and customs
administrations to transfer knowledge to local staff.



                                               50

146.    The rights of the local population are protected by various mechanisms.
Consultative meetings with neighboring communities prior to grantingpermits for forest
exploitation provide them with opportunities to express their concerns about traditional
forest rights and uses and indicate their needs for basic socio-economic infrastructure
such as classrooms, heath centers, water points and roads. Over the course o f the second
semester o f 2008, the Government has established a permanent information system to
inform the population about the revenue sharing mechanism between the State and
communities and the amount accruing to them from the proceeds o f local taxes paid by
operators, which are used based on investment plans conceived by the local population.
Lastly, the new Forest Code addresses effective compensation and adequate
representation o f indigenous people. Establishment o f a publicly accessible centralized
data on forest management (tax paid, concession maps production and exports,
infractions) will further enhance the transparency o f the information system and further
promote the participationo f local population inmonitoring activities that affect their lives

                 c.IMPLEMENTATION,MONITORING,EVALUATIONAND

147.    Implementation entity. The Ministry of Planning, Economy and International
Cooperation will be responsible for monitoring the reforms under the proposed operation,
as set out in the Letter o f Development Policy, as well as for reporting progress and
coordinating actions among other concerned ministries and agencies. This ministry was
the unit responsible for coordination and implementation of the activities and reforms
underRIBSUP andthe EMGRGI.

148.    Program monitoring and evaluation. As in the first two budget support
operations, the review o f the goals o f the program will be largely based on relevant and
easy-to-monitor indicators. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements will rely on
Government with the aim of strengthening Government capacity and institutions. CAR
has designed a monitoring-evaluation architecture to follow up on the PRSP
implementation which covers the whole budget cycle, from planning to execution.
Buildingon this architecture, the EMGRGI1and the monitoring-evaluationinstitutional
framework for this operation's reforms and activities, have been designed bearing in
mindthe need : (i) ensure quality and timely information, (ii) to keep involving the
                    to                                           and
civil society in the accountability systems. In this regard, an implementation oversight
committee, with the mandate to monitor implementation o f policies o f the EMGRGI1i s
inplace, withrepresentatives from all lineministriesanddirectorates involved.

 149.   In parallel, collaborative monitoring has progressed among donors with the
Government's support in public sector and economic governance, and all governance-
related areas including mining, forestry and transparency and the fight against corruption.
Inparticular, a multi-donor commission has been created inDecember 2008 (Comite de
suivi des bailleurs sur les Jinances publiques - COSUFABI)                   to coordinate
donors'activities inpublic finance management.




                                              51

                                  D.FIDUCIARY     ASPECTS

150.    Although much remains to be done, PFM standards have improvedover the
recent past. A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) completed in
FY08 helped assess fiduciary risks associated with budget support and deepened the
dialogue between donors and the Government on PFM issues: The CFAA developed a
joint donor-Government understanding o f the main strengths and weaknesses o f the PFM
system and has identified a list o f prioritized recommendations based on the capacity of
the Government to implement these measures. Budget implementation and fiscal
reporting are at the core o f the operation. It also takes into account the results o f a
Treasury audit and the recently completed PEFA. The preliminary findings point to
systematic underlying problems, as well as more punctual shortcomings that are being
addressed in this operation. The Association will be engaged in a very close dialogue
with the Government to agree on necess&y remedial actions that insure integrity o f
public funds.

 151.   The foreign exchange system is under the control of the Bank of the Central
African States BEAC, the regional central bank which manages the CFA franc currency
 o f Central Africa Francophone countries. The latest finalized IMF safeguards assessment
o f the Bank o f the Central African States (BEAC) was made in2004. It found that BEAC
had implementeda number o f measures to strengthen its safeguards framework. These
 include the enhancement o f the transparency of the financial statements and
 strengthening o f internal audit function. As o f February 2009, the 2004 safeguards
 assessment i s beingupdated by the IMF, but it i s not yet available for review by IDA. On
 30 January 2009, following reported losses on some o f BEAC's foreign currency assets,
 the BEAC heads o f states decided to (i)   request an audit o f BEAC as well as a separate
 audit o f its investment operations, (ii)modify BEAC statutes, (iii)stop, as a
 precautionary measure, all investments operations until hrther notice, (iv) and improve
 coordination within the senior management team. In the absence o f an updated
 safeguards assessment, these developments justify the application of additional fiduciary
 arrangements as per OP 8.60. Dedicated foreign exchange accounts by the authorities
 will be opened in the BEAC for this operation in order to avoid co-mingling the Grant
 with the BEAC's foreign exchange reserves pool. The Association will reserve the right
 to request an audit of the flow o f funds from this dedicated account to the local currency
 Treasury account o fthe Central Afi-ican Republic.

                              E.DISBURSEMENT      AND AUDITING

  152.   A single-tranche of SDR 3.4 million (US$5 million equivalent) will be
 disbursed upon grant effectiveness. The proposed Grant will follow the Association's
 disbursement procedures for development policy operations. Once the operation i s
 approved by the Board and the Financing Agreement becomes effective, the proceeds o f
 the Grantwill be deposited by IDA indedicated foreigh currency accounts designated by
 the Recipient, upon receptiono f the Recipient's request. The accounts should be held at
 the centralbank, theBanque des Etats de I'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and form part ofthe
 country's foreign exchange reserves. The Recipient shall ensure that upon deposit o f the
 grant into said accounts, an equivalent amount is credited in the Recipient's budget


                                               52

management system within 5 days, in a manner acceptable to the Association. The
conversion from Euros to CFA francs will be based on the prevailing exchange rate on
the date that the funds are creditedto CAR'STreasury Account.

153.   The Recipient will report to the Association on the amounts deposited in the
dedicated accounts and credited to the budget management system within 30 days. The
Recipient will provide written confirmation to the Association that an amount equivalent
to the grant proceeds has been credited to an available Treasury Account to finance
budgeted expenditures, with an indication o f the exchange rate applied. Ifthe proceeds of
the Grant are used for ineligible purposes as defined in the Financing Agreement, the
Association will require, promptly through a notice, the Recipient to refund an amount
equal to the amount o f said payment. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such
request shall be cancelled. The Association reserves the right to request an external audit
of the fund flows from the accounts to the Treasury account. The administration of this
Grant will be the responsibility o f the Ministry o f Planning, Economic Development and
International Cooperation.

                              F.RISKSAND RISKMITIGATION

154.    The EMGRG I1 has significant country, macroeconomic, institutional capacity,
risks. These risks reflect the country's fragile security and political situation, as well as
risks associatedwith low Government revenue.

155.    Security risk.As inmanyconflict affected countries, deterioration inthe security
situation constitutes an important source o f risk for the operation. The security situation
remains fragile although mutinies in the northern region closer to the borders with Chad
and Sudan have been declining. Banditry remains an important concern in certain rural
regions, particularly the Bangui-Cameroon corridor. These security risks are exogenous
and their mitigation falls largely outside the scope o f the operation.

156.    Politicaland sustainabilityrisks. Three years after free and fair presidential and
legislative elections, CAR'S political situation has considerably improved. A new
coalition Government i s now in place following the political reconciliation launched in
early 2008, including a cease-fire agreement with the main rebel group and Peace
Accords between the Government and the Opposition, the general amnesty adopted by
Parliament, and the political dialogue in December 2008. The reform program supported
by the grant could falter ifthere are major changes inthe political landscape, especially if
these changes lead to policy reversals and slippages, which could adversely affect the
ability o f the Government to carry out poverty reducing priorities identified in the PRSP
and undermine the sustainability o f the program. External resources by donors would to
some degree help further mitigate political and sustainability risks as they support
sustained service delivery by Government. However, it will require enhanced
harmonization o f budget support, in terms o f content and timing. By enhancing
transparency and strengthening the executive's accountability, the reforms supported by
the Grant would also help restore confidence betweenthe population and the State.




                                              53

  157.    Macroeconomic risk.The success of the grant will depend critically on CAR'S
  adherence to a medium-termmacroeconomic framework elaboratedjointly with the Fund
  and the Association. Deterioration of the external environment could weaken the
  operation, in particular the global economic slowdown which impacts negatively on
  CAR'S tax revenues, thereby undermining the Budget. These risks can be mitigated
,through a combination o f policy adjustments and inflows of donor funding. Reducing
  substantial downside risk from the uncertainty about other donors' support and crowding-
 indonors to providebudget support wouldmitigaterisks, The Association andtheFund's
  role in coordinating aid support from the donor community are critical in this regards.
  Two potential avenues will be explored: (i)sustaining dialogue with partners to
  encourage timely disbursement o f their budget support; (ii)and using CAR as a case
  study ina program on EC-WB coordination, in an effort to promote more predictable aid
  flows to fragile states.

  158.    Vested interest risk. Benefiting from Government instability, vested interests
  have in the past exploited weaknesses in the governance framework and appropriated
  natural resources to their advantage. This risk is reduced through strong up-front reform
  measures in tax exemptions management, and by ensuring proper functioning o f external
  organ controls (Court o f Accounts) o f Government operations, and by moving forward
  the implementation o f the new procurement code inparticular the operationalization of
  the Bidders complaint mechanisms, the implementation of a transparent information
  system with respect to forestry revenue accruing to communities, and by suspending the
  issuanceo f new miningpermitsuntil the adoption o fthe new miningCode.

  159.    Institutionalcapacity risk. A significant risk is weak institutional capacity and
  delays that could arise from these capacity constraints. Despite achievements in terms o f
  building up capacity in CTPS-PAS, Ministry o f Finance, and the Ministry o f Planning,
  Economy and International Cooperation, major constraints to the implementation o f
  reforms remain due to weak institutional capacity to prepare, implement, and oversee
  reforms. Risk o f limited implementation capacity i s mitigated by (i)sustaining reforms
  that have started generating positive results and in which the country already has
  developed stronger capacity such as in public finance management and governance; (ii)
  concentrating on a limited number o f themedareas; (iii)  ensuring that the most difficult
  reforms are taken up-front; (iv) donor harmonization which reduces the number of
  activities to be implemented by the Government and help target efficiently the focus o f
  technical assistance; (v) and funding for critical actions. The Association is providing
  financing for fiscal reporting, revenue mobilization capacity, and governance in the
  mining sector; UNDP and France are supporting the transparency and governance
  programs; the EC i s involved inthe AFLEG agenda; and France, the EC, and AFRITAC
  are supporting the budget management reforms. The Association will coordinate with
  CAR'S development partners to enhance synergy and improve the efficiency of the
  EMGRG11.

  160.    Fiduciary risk.As the CFAA and the PEFA revealed, financial controls in the
  CAR are weak. Improvements in fiduciary standards has been a central objective o f the
  RIBSUP and EMGRGIprograms, and measures under these programs have allowed for
  improved financial control, including the closing of Government accounts in commercial


                                              54

banks, deployment o f treasury agents in all line ministries generating revenues, and
operationalizing the financial control units in line ministries. The proposed EMGRG I1
will continue to sustain improvement in budget implementation and fiscal reporting.
Since this operation i s designed as a one-year stand-alone operation, based on prior
actions and subsequent follow on measures, IDA can adjust subsequent operations to the
pace o f implementationand satisfactory usage o f previous grants by the Government.




                                            55

                                        Annex 1:Letter ofDevelopmentPolicy




R6publiqrreCeritrafiicaiire
   Unit4 Dignllc'. Travail
          -          -
     ......I..*.....
13iwviun de Cuhinri
     ...
~ e fQ. .$A     %u,1200
          I..*...*..*.      9 i h lE~cI~DIRCAB                    BanmClc                Fttr LUUY


                                                               .A
                                        Monsieur RebcrtH.ZOEI,LICK
                                 Presidentdu Croup tic ltt Banquehloridiule
                            1818 E1Street NW,Washington D.C. 20433,U. S. A.

         Ohict:Trausrnissiun          cte Ia tettre de Politiyuedc DBveloppementen appui
                     A la requCte d'un Don A la Ripublique Centrafricaine


ktonsieur l e President,

J'ei l'honncur de vous trsnsmcttrc la lettre de Polftiyue de DBveIuppement du Guuvenieinent de l a
RBpubliquc Cenuafricaine en vue d'appuyer la requdte relative B la sollicitation aupres de votrc
institution, d'un Dondont le montant s'6lbverait 15 millions de D o hUS.

Pour le moment le pays a besoiii d'un appui cons6quent pour poursuivre la mise en auvre dc son
Document de StratCgic de RCducrion de la Pauwett (DSRP), dans un contexte marquepar l a fragilite
dc I'environnemcnt financier, 6conomique et social. La rcprise dconumiquc :%mor& ces dmidres
annh grace aux rkfi7rmes angagkrs par It:Gouvernsmrnt, est encore timide. Certes, nialgr6 une
amdioration dc la gcstiondes finances publiques, la situation fiiianciere demeuretoujoun difficilc avcc
Ics flucmations dcs prix du pdtrole, la persistancc au niveau intcrnational de la mise financiPrc ct
Bcontmiiqtie, urie huse taxable trbs rPduitc et unernvbilisation insutfisnntr des ressources extdrieuras en
cornparaison avec l'aide au d6veloppemeid WFU par les autres pays past conflit. Dans cts conditions,
1'Etat nc pcut ni assurcr lcs scrvices de la dette cn wc dc garantir l'attcinte du point d'achhcmcnt de
I'Imtintive dcs Pays Paiivres Tr&sI.lndBt16s ni pousvoir uux bcsoins dc reconstruction clu pnys.

Le don quc nous sollicitcrns, sous la fomic d'un troisi6me appui au programme dc rCcngapmeiic ct de
renforcmnent des institutions de I'Etat, doit aider uu deblocnge sur deux plans h savoir : incitation B  Iti
inobilisation de l'aide de la cominunautk internationale d'une part et la consolidation du renforccmeiit
de capaciti des institutions dc 1'Etat B mettrc en aui-re convenablernent la politiquc 6conomiquc ct
sooiulc tcllc quc dbfinic dam IC        DSKP.

 Sur le plan de la inobilisation de l'aide internationale, les ressources que vous allez mettre B notre
disposition contfibucront a la couvcrturc d'unc partie dc notrc bcsoinde financement pour latroisihe
 ann& de mise en muvre de notrcprogramme~ppuycEpar tu Facilit6pour 1s kidduction de lo PQUM~~B           et
 l a Croissance (FRPC). La deuxii?nie reme du programme qui vient de se derouler est satisfaisante.

                            Kur Marliri CutlrcrKINO' B.P. 696 UonguiNcpubliqw centmfricuinr              &
                       Tcl. :t2362i 61 92 85 Fax :+236 21 61 9689Email :I;srbitrc~~~i~iolurr-rcu.arL
                                                 web ;nin,w.miiplun-rcu.org.pIan-r~a,#r~




                                                                    56

Toutcfois, l'attmtion paniculi$rc quc IC  Gouvcmcmcnt accordc a la realisation des dCciencheurs d o ~ c
des nwranccs pour attcindre le plus rapidemcnt possible ICpoint d'ach(?vcmentdc l'htiative PPTE
renforz8, uliimevuie tl'all&gemtnt substiintic1des suvices denor dettes.

Concemant le renforcemcnt de nos institutions, lcs mcsures structure!lcs appuykes par votre don sc
conccnh-cnt sur I'am&tioriitron des points importants de la gouvernance, notamrnent la gestion de.;
finances publiques et des rassources naturclles, ofin de tirer les bbnifices pour 8ppuyer la
reconstruction du pays. Elks siennent en complhent des prtrgtes dejk rCalis6s grice notammeiit &
l'appui de la Banque Mondlalc B travcrs lcs miscs cn ccuvrc dcs LICWS 1et 2, La rbnlisation dc ccs
niesures sera f`dlitee por la mobilisation plus importante de f 'assistance technique au nii.mu des
iiistitutions de gestian Bconomique et financiere   atrwers le LICUS 3 de la Bauque Mondiale, mais
aussipar IaBAR, l'llnion Ewo~~S~MCa France.
                                         et l

Votre inslitulion a constat6 la prise d`un ensemble de riiesures prkilahles dont tcius les documents
justificatifs sont deja prtsentes, traduisant notre dbtermination a nous attaquer de manitre inergique
aux difficult& auxqudles fait facc lepays.

Nous elnettonsle VEU que l'examen de ce dassier reiiconlrt: l'wis EnvosabIe du Groupede la Baiique
Mondiale et vous prions de croire, Monsieur le President, B l'expression de notre considiration
distingu6e.




                                                         57

11 LETTRE           DEPOLITIQ
     DUGOUVERNEMENTDELA REPUBLIQUE                                                                11

   INTRODUCTION
     1. LGProgmnunede pulitique du gouveriiertiantde iatge ouverture, pour laconsolidation
        de la pais et la reconstructio~idu pays. en vue du niainticn de la croissance
        dconomiquc soutenue et de la luttc efficnce contre la pnuvrell., s'uppuic sur lcs qunfre
        pilicrs drr Document de Stratkgie de R6ductien de la PauvretP (USIIP) pour la p6riode
        2008-2010. Ce document de trois arts qui est prepart en associant toutes les couches
        de la population nationaie ct Ics pnncnaires intdrieurs ct cstCrieurs, sera cnsuite
        npprufondiet &tendudam lzs pmgrumnieset strat6giessectoriels..

     2, Les quam pilicrs du DSRP que sont :i)la tcstauration dc l a sicuritd, la consolidation
        de la paix et la prkventinn des confits ;ii) la promotion de In bonnc gouverntinccct dc
        1'Etat de droit; iii)la reconstruction et la diyersification de I'Ccunonde el; iv) le
        DCwloppemtnntdu capital hurnain 9 trawrs I'anidlioraiion de 1'acci.s des populations
        aiix scrviecs socinux de base principalement l'<duearion, la santC er la luttc contrc la
        pandhie du VlH,`SIDA ; dunnent d4ji les griindes lignes dcs rdforrncs quc IC
        Gouverneiiient devraineftre en autire pour la t`econslnictioiidu pays.

     3   Le 1roisii.m nppui budgdtnire     ti11programme de reconstruction de I`Etat qui s'inscrit
        dam le ~ni%ir:cnntextt: des deux premiers (LWOI ct DPoIi). sc coilcentre sur
         l'ani4lioration de la gestion des finaices publiques et des ressourcces nalurcllcs, ainsi
        que d'autres aspects de fa gouvcrnance (lutte come lacorruption). Dans le contexte de
         la crisr linanci8re et Cconomiyue nctuelle, il contribue tf l`amdioration de la
         gouvcmmce (pilier ii)et prepare6galtl;mc?iil:3la divetsi1kution el h I'accroissement de
         l a production (pilier iiij par des dispositions ayarrt trait d la s6ctirisnrion des
         investissernerits dms les swteurs minier ct forcsrier,

      4, Dms les domaines retenus, ilslagit de jekr Ics bases, ct de rrnlbrcrr la ciipacit6 de
         I'Etat B pouruuiLrc Inreconstruction du pays, tout en rcstaurmt la confiance entre tow
         les acteurs du ctiveloppement du pays. Afin d'cnvoyer un signal fort, cctte restauration
         repose sur l'acioption imntidiale d'un pqurt dc mesures prhlablcs B la soumissionde
         la proposition dc don au conseil d'adniinistration de I'hssocintion. qui s'il Ctait
         apprcluvi, sign4 et en viyucur. scrait dtcaissC en traachc unique.

      5. Le rapport d'evaluation de: la pramiire rinneu dc mise cii uxsrz du DSW a relev6
         d'irnportants ncquis dont notaiiiitlent la cril~~rence l'action yowernementalc ri
                                                                  de
         lwvcrs le hctionnemcnt dcs comitds sectoricls. Cepandant tin certain nambrc dc
         contraintes restent pr&judiciables d une meillcure impleiiietitation de la strat&ie
         pourraient atteiiuer les effits, cscnmptCs. I1s`agit entre autrc de ;i)la mohilisationdes
         ressourccs, ii) la faiblcsse des capacitks Izumaitxs et iiij la pcrsistancc dc la crise
         financikre et 4conomiclue internationale. La feuille de route du f3ouvcniemcnt sem
         guidee par I'alteinte: des rCsuItats en rappm avcc la matlice iietualisde des mesures
         classdcs par ordre de priorit6ittilcturdes problGmes d&jSidaitifids.




                                                   1



                                                        58

6. En matiere des finances pilbliques, les             I U ~ S U ~ ~pr6alahIes
                                                                    E          garatitissent La borne
   exCcutiori dzs dt5penscs de 1'Etat au cows de I'amie 2009 en niettmt en ptace un pl:ltl
   campkbk coli6reiit avec les nomies OIIADA. La fiabilite                  ~ L compte
                                                                                I        de gcstion el7
   cours dc tinnlisation rcposc sur fe reItfurcament des capacites techniques et
   institulioitnelles de la cours des coiiiptes avec unc augmentation dc leur allociiticln
   budgitaire et la gcstion des crCdits directemen1 par le respotisable ii tmeecs une
   deltigation di: I'orcloIznntcur des crCdits. 1.;t femelure des crimptcs resraiits d;ins les
   hnnques cornniercinles ctrnstitut: UII pcogks imporzai~t1w-s la mise en ptace de
   I'uniciti de compte du Trdsor au nivcau dc lilBmque Ccntrnlc et amdiore le s t i k i de
   l'utilisation dcs f'onds publics. L e rcnhrcernent de la capacit6 de mobilisatioti des
   ressources repose sur I'actualisation des fichiers SYSTEMIF de la direction Gdndralc
   des Imp6ts a partir des donndcs du reccnscrnent financC par le PNUD et aussi un bon
   suivi dcs cxonbmtions. D'rrutrcs aspects dc l a gcstion publique et de la gouvernancc
   soni Cgnlement comerii6s par les niesures prialabbs : la mise en Cewre du code de
   pussadoit des marclib publics par t'approbation du caliier des clauses administrativcs
   gcSndraIcs et la dCsignntion des membra du comitd de rkglement des difErcnds ainsi
   que In suspension de l'octmi des nouveaux permis dans le secteur minier jusqu'ii
   l'adoption du tiouveaui code niinicr.



7. Lcs hypothbscs qui sous tcizdcnt ICprojct de loi de fitianccs 2009 en l'abscncc dcs
   donnks concernant I'irnpact cic hi crisc linanciCrc ct r'conarniquc. inicrnationnle, sc
   fondent sur les perspectixes &xmomiyues en 2009 et Izs rhilisnlions ri mi-parcours de
   I'exkution du budget 2008. Cependaiit les premikres =&valuations de I'impact de la
   crisc, indiqucnt claircrncnt que les principaux produits d"csportation du pays sont et
   seront durement nfTeclds.

8. En 2009, lcs pcrspcctitvs dconomiques d6pendronti)de la poursuite de coiisolidation
   de la stttbilitd sucio-pulitiquc avec fc retour progressif de la s4curitC ti l'intdricur du
   pays grdce 12 l'application des recommandations dtt Didogtie Yolitique Inclusif, ii>                dc
   la stabilit6 niacroCconotnique avec le renforccrnent de la conliance des opernteurs
   dconomiques, iii) du redrcssenrcnt des cours des mati&es                      premieres, iv) de la
   slabilisation des cotrrs du ptitmle. v ) dc ta poursuitc des rdformcs cngagdcs par IC
   Couveriiement avec le soutien des parteiiaircs                d6\&qpr        It et clu luncemcnt dos
   aperations de rcconstruetioii des infrastructures de base ainsi que de la consolid-it'Ion        L
   des relotiot-rs nvcc lcs Institutions Financihw Intcrnationales avec la perspective de
   l'atteinte du paint d'achkvenzenl (le I'IPPTE.
9. L"uricntntion dc la politiyuc dconomique pour la rkduction de la pauvretti et la
   consolidation de Itr      croissancc: &wnomiquc              soutenue, csige entre autws, une
   niobilisation suffsante des    E S S O ~ I L C ~ S
                                                    budgkluircs. La misc en a x i c ~ ede ccttc politique
   pennettra d'oobtcnir un t a w de craissance Cconoiiiique de 3% e n 2009 avec tm t a w
   d'invcsfisserncnt de 13,3% ct un t a u de pression fiscale de 10,3%. C'e niveau du
   croissance serait snutenu prir IC.   mninticn de I'activitc! dusecteur priinaire, avec un Iaux
   de croissaiice de I,G%.    En linisun avec un certain nornbrc de contraintcs, le secteur
    secondaire atteindrait une croissance d'en\.iron 1,3% et             CQ. grrice B la perspectivc   de
   dkmnrrage des grands tmvaus routicrs en 2OOc3, 1.e t a w de crnissance Cconomiquc du
   secteur tertiairt se situerrlit A 4.4% cn 2009.




                                                     2


                                                      59

10, Dans ce conteste. ICPlH h p i s courant scrait estinik a 936,521 milliwds de FUFA 211
    2009. C:u ~ ~ i ~ deacroissatice scrai obtenu grikc : i)mi soutien de la production des
                        e   u
   vivriels avcc la misc cn couvrc du projet de la crise alimeiitaire financd par la B8anclue
    Fvlondiale et In Hanque Afi-icaine de Dtivelappcrnent: ii)B lu reprise des grands
    cha~~ticrs construction de route (Bouar
                de                                      - Ifj.rmt-Mbbntilai',13 rthabilitation des rucs de
    Bangui) ; iiijti la goursuitc Lie I'rxterision de la couvetture ttl6phonique iI'intLCrieur
    du pays ui; ii*)ir In poursuite des r%forinesdes finances pub                        ICs ElVeC l'app11i
    rnuitifhrme des palterlaires au ddvcloppenictn.

11.E n mati&rcdes recctttls. ler prt3visions de recettes tiscales pour I'annk 2009 se solit
    t*n1xt6tsSUI' celles de 2008 et 2007 rcvues h la hausst.. Cor, la rgprise dcs recettes
    eilregistrkes en 2009 est cntrctcnue par Ics dispositioiis des lois de finances 2006,
    2007 et 2008 coupl&.es    ZIUX dvoliitions spniitttnks et         h la mise en wuvrc d'umc s&ie de
    trresures strwturelles adininistratives. L e niveau dcs rcssources proprcs atteinclraif
    1 1#,9 milliards e n 2009. A cela il.fnut ajouter, I'uppui linancler extbrieur.

12. Las rncsiires structurelles    C W C E ~ ~ I G I ~les
                                                      ~   administrations des Rdgics de 1`Etat. ALI
    riivtxiiiu de la Direction Ciinlrale des ImpBts, Ics cffons obscrvds en 2007 et 2008
    doivent 6tre consolidds et amtliores en s*appuiyant sur les actions suivniites :
    i)tilurgissemenl de l'assietle de la `SVA it travers la suppressian des exonemlions B la
    TVA 5 l'esception des transactions ei'ectudcs                  par des organisrnes fonctionnant sur
    financemcnt extkricur, l`assrijettisscmcnt dcs conkihunbles scriiniis nu minirnumfiscal
    et t?ila paterite h cause de letir clziflre d'affaires, la gCnBralisation du prilkvement h la
    source de la TVA ii)l'intensification des contrSles ciblis y canipris le contrale des
    stocks, iii)la dCnonciation des contrats de hail r6pntCs fhntaisistus, iv 1 J'inrensificotion
    de recnuvremenls des t.uriCrds i>scriux.

13. A l'impact dc scs mesures s'ajoutc l'incidence dcs aeLivit6s dconomiques ci-dessus
    indiquCes, sur la base taxlxiibli?: i)13 drirnamugc cCos trtiwux routiers; ii)I'impact du
    paietnent rdgulier des salnires sur la consoinmulion ; iv) 1'Clurgissemcnt des activitks
    fcrrestieres aux nouveIles sociitks.
14. ALIniveuii de In DirectionCidndrule des Doitzmes, leu amdliorutions porlcrunt sur : i)Ir:
    reriforcenient des capacit6s du Guichet Unique dam son rdle dc sCcurit6 des flux ili
    l'iniportation, ii)le reriforcement des Cquipes aux frnnti6res pour suivre la canalisation
    dcpuis ta frontihe jusqu`h 1'intCricur du pays, iv) la prisc en chargc au niveau du
    tcrminrit h ccmtcncur, v) ia poursuitc dc I'appropriatiun de I"uutj1 infcmatiquc
    SYDONIA ++, vi) I'eiic~~uragriiit:~~f reprise cctiisi-quenle ciu lrafic fluvial. vii) tu
                                                 de Is
    poursuitc dcs reforiiies, viii) la maitrise de la fiscalit6 pktroliere awc E`application de
    [a farmule automatique sur les prix de.              ...,  i x ) b'applicntion du droit d'accises au
    cordon douatiier sur ICviii en wriic, l'alcoal Ctlq-liyiie et 1 ~ tsbacs, x) la suspz~~sioe
    la ddfiscalisation dc ccrtains produits (Cirnent. Tgles)            .      s                         de


15. Au niveau de In Direction C'i6116rule idri Trksnr, la Direction dti Recouvrement et des
    Poursuites consolidera les acyuis, it travers ; i) I`Clargisseinent de l'assiette de
    recouvrcment tiuprds des niinisttres pour I'arndlioration des mcnues recettes, ii)Ia
    mobilisation de fbrirls de crsntropmie des Dons japvnais pour le financcment des
    dkperlscs des sectetirs SanlC. Education et Agricuflure, iii)la mobilisution de Londs des
    effets de la reevaluation des redcvance des telCcoi.nmunicatjnns.
16. La contribution des rcssoiirces extericurcs 811s invcstissemcnts est passdc dc 31,4
     milliards de francs en 2008 h 3(5,4 milliards en 2009. Ellcs sont constirui.es



                                                     3


                                                       60

   uniqueiticnt clus suhv          o m aux projcts d'investissernent d'un niontant de 39,J
   miliiards dr: francs.           augnmitation cfu finaiicrrnetit cxzericur s'cxplicluc p r le
   report en 2009 des grnnds prqjets routirrs dtrnai?.&scn retard on 2008. et par ICs
   projets dans leu sectecirs tie I'      tricite et de 1'hydrclulique. Par ailleurs, les activit&
   prevues sur financement ester           sont crtract&is&s   par la prtdominmcc dcs scclcw
   socism.

17. S'agissant des dCpeiises. c e h de IlfitEit ont augment& cle 20Yi par rapport A 2008.
   Elks sont passCes de 150.9 milliards cn 2008 6 181,O milliards en 200
   de rigidit6 sont importants. En effet, le respect des iiorrncs CornniLinau
   ICddficil huclgdtaire n'ccxckde pas les 3% du PID. Le contcxic n'est pa
      la r6disation de cet objcctif compte tcnu du dkblucagc: pa ef des safaires des
    fonctionnaircs et agents de 1'Etut et des inscriptions nouvellcs A prrlvoir en m:itiCre de
   ddpenSeS

RESTAURATLON ET hlAlNT1EN DE LA SOLVABILITE EXTEIUEU
18. La RCA a bendfici& d'un aElCgernent interimaire rle 90% du service de sa dcttc
    multilatr5m'ic au point de dCcision cic I-initiative PPTE, depuis le 14 janvicr 2008. Cda
    fui permettra 21'~ssuterrigtilitrement le scrvice de la dette. et rtc bht!ficier de
    riouveawc coiicours B taux concessionnels des banques de dBveloppement. Ides
   cr6mcicrs of*ticicls ont t'rd sotlicit& porir s'engager        ti inaintenir des trarisferts nets
               our msurtir le trriitarnant equitable parmi ~QUSles creditcurs ainsi que la
               nancikre du programme.
19.L'Union EuropLCcnne,       f i t France, !a BAD et la plupart des RajHcurs de Fonds
                 n! sous forme de Dons. Idacornparaison entre le niontant de dons rgus par
                 proportion du PII3 et lcs autrcs pays post-conflit est tres peu cncourngennte
    pour notre pays. t h e fois franchi le point d'achGvement, le prugraniine du
    gouvernernent devra mobiiiser des appuis essentiellement sous forme de dons et prPts
    coiicessionnels beaucoup plus importants, afin d'ntreindre un niitcrtu de tninsferts nets
    af3ciels positifs et consijquent, de preserver le profif de la          te et assurer le service
    rCgulier de la delte. Le financement intkgral des mesures et actions pr6vues l'eesige.

ACTION PREALABLEES

20, GESTIO74 DE LA DEPENSE. Les actions prCalsbles s'attaqucnt principalemcnt
    aus problbmes scncontr6s dans l'cxkution des ddpcnscs budgrltnires 6 wavers la mise
    en place d'un nouveau circuit de In ddpcnre et un nouveau pl~mcclmptirbie euhCrent
    avec 1es mxiiies UHAUA. La p&serrtntiuri de In Loi de r&g:lement2008 it11 Psrlement est un
    dcs objcctifs fondamcntaux du prograrnmc. Lcs op&r&ioiis dc rcnforccment pr6vucs par IC
    LICUS IIIpermertront d'iintkgrer exhaustivement les depenses dam la chaine budgktaire afin        .
    de finalism uti cvrripte admiuistratii'et de passer i1'6labordtiuil de la toi de r&gleinenl2008.
    Le renforcettient des capticires de !a cow des comptcs est indqxns:iblc pour la
    rkussite de cet engagement. Ilne tinaiyse rnerlCe par le Ciouverrterrrent s o w I'assistance
    technique dti FMI et les rCsultntsde l'audit du TrEsor ~ i ifait npparaitrc la ~~dcessitd rdduirc
                                                                 t                         de
    In muftiplicite de crs coinptts sur lesquels le Trtsor n'a pas forcetilent contrblr: et dont les
    inouvernents ne sont pas retr     s dam le cadre des opPrations du Trt2sor. Le Cjou, miemeiit et
    la mission orit arrgte tine liste de 52 eurnptes rl fentier irnmcidiuterncnt uvarii 16 14 junvicr
    2009. Ces cottiptes sont des coriiptes d&biteurs actifb, La transpareiice est assun% par la
    presencc de conseilfers techiiiques financks pur les pancnaircs BU ddvdoppcmcnt qui
    participent L?LI groiipe de rkflexinn sur !"audit dcr ccs eumpics mi C Q ~ dc I'iimCc 2008.
                                                                                    S



                                                3



                                                61

21 .  GEST'tOS DES KECET'I'ES. Ac~~eiieri~eclans, le cadre:dit Iecutiwernellt des rccettes
                                                              t r ~
    dc I`Etat au i ~ i v e ndc~ la Dirccrion Ci&l~rirrdcde? lmp8rs ct cics Il)om:linas, It:Uvuvernenletlt`3
    actualis& les bascs dcs dantidcs SYSTEMIF et SYDONIA B'VEC lei; nouvcllcs wtil&s
    ~conoiniquesqui otit i t 6 rocensies sur le tcrrain grlcc at1 ftiianccinent du PNUD. 11 s'ngit
    d'onribuer le nurztCro d'idsritification fiscate   iif)37,0iiiiitssCcoiiotniques.CoticernatitI'octroi
    des cvondmtions, le Gouvcnicinent B public! unc: instruction ministCrielle pout instruire le$
    Directions C@n&rdesdes Douanes et:des Impdts b envoyer systCmntiq~rcmcntle compte rcndu
    de5 exonerations accordees etjou rejetks au cornit@ intcrninisttricl chary6 du stiivi des
    fiancliises ct tscntiations fiscales et duuanibres. En min-re temps. Ies inenibresdu cornit4 sont
    autclrisds ri accbdrr BUX bnses des doriiibes SYSTEMIF et SYDONIA pour faire leur rapport.

22. AMELTORATIOS DE L A BQNNECOUYERKAKCE.Zes iiiesurcs concernirntce
    scctcur sont esscnticllcs afin dc rcnforccr la transparence au nivcau dc la gcstion dcs
    rewources pubiiquos. Ilorniis I'ndoption du plan coiriptablc et I`ani6lioration de la
    iiiobilisaiioii des r t ~ ~ tlettiavail Ix&ilable pcrur pernwttre de metier iiterriie cette
                                       ~ ,                                                         IIIBYU~~
    corisiste B [i) adopter par tin DScrct. Ics Cuhiers de Clauses Adininistrntives BE GBn6ralcs pour
    op6rntionnaliscr la rkforme dcs march& publics, (ii) nommer IC rcsponsable de I'autoritC de
    rdgulation des marchis publics et iii) designer le responsabie du swrktariat pertnarxnt et du
    coiriite der diffkreuds pour   UIIGbonne exdcutioii des march& publics eti Centmfrique.

23.    S'agissant du renfircemenl de In gmverncriice duns IC sectetir iics rcssourees
    naturclles, IC    Couvemenient s'est engage et1 rnatibre des mines 2%suspendre & travers
                        dentiel. I`octroi de nouvcaux pcrmis jusqu'8 l'adoption du iiouveau
    ccrde Minicr. Par nilieurs, en rtintiere dc            It1 for?t,  le Gouvernemcnt a dorm4 dcs
    insrructions par une note minist~riella, pour publier systkrnutiqucmcnl clans Ics
    communes, le mdcanisme de partage entre le Trbsor. le CASDFT et les cornimunes, le
    rnoi?lantde transfkrlssur les comptesdes cornrnuncs pour Icur dCveloppement,

ACTIOX FUTURES

24, 11 s'agit de bkir le socle de la reconstruction du paps, c`cut-21-dire une qudite dc
    guu\`ernancc Ccoiiomiquc ct w e transparence financi6re garanlissant (i)fa banne
       lisntiorr des fbndv publics, (ii) mobiIisarion a plein rtgime de la carnrnunaut6
                                               la
    intemationalc, (iii) la hannt: exCcuticm L ~ L Wsiicct?s ciu DSRP, ct (iv) l e retour des
    invcstisscuru. d'abord dam Ies sccteurs niinier et fbrestisr p i s dnns Ics uutrcs secteurs
    avec le retour do laeonfiance rdtablic,

25.    Nous entendons rdaliser des avanc6es significativcu iiu niveau du cadrc
    mucrokmornique et brrdgdtaireaiiisi quc sur les aspects clefs de la gestionpublique :
    bonne gnuvernnncc li&la sticwisation des ressources publiyues, des iiivastisseursel
                                    ti
    des ressources imturelIes.

26.    S'ngissanl du cndrc macroCconomique et bud@aire, les rdsultuts attcndus sont :IC
    maintien du cap kconorniquc ct budgdtairc, unc augmentation significative des recettcs
    fiscalcs qui est indispensable pci~irle rcltivement des dipcnscs et la rkduction dr! la
    pauvrcte, la rnisc en ceuvre des prog:rammrs d'irivcsti                mCnt du I)SRP compatibles
    a v e ~les priorilds. l'dlaborntion d'un budget 2010 selon UJWaomenclulure bucig&taire
    hamioniste avec la nomenclature comptable en tenant compte de la base des cfonn8es
    socio-Cconomiques fiables. Par ailteurs. nucis ovans l'intention de rncttrc en reseau les
    directions gCndmles du Budget ct Trtsor atin d'Cviter I'accnmuliltion des nrridrds
    intirieurs ~ i o u ~ ~de ~toutc niltiire et d'en rCduirc le stock existani. En mQinetemps,
                                 a   i x


                                                     5



                                                      62

   la SOUITIISS~OI~ fi CCIUI des COIIlptes, des comptes de gestioti 2008 ct 2009 ct dcs lois
                     la
   de r2gIenient corrcspoildalit cst unc prioritc. 11 s'rigit !iid'une tnesiire cssentiellr pour
   aider A la restaurntjon de la ccrniiance des partmaires Cconoiiziqucs et sociaus dans IC
   gaIIW ernennent.

27. S`ngissnnt de I'amCliorniion des rec         s. le Ojouvernetrient s'engage d n
   reseau. le burcau dn coiiiite inteiministe`ricj charge dc suivi dcs franchiscs et
   exondrations fiscalcs et douanitrcs a w c ICs   SJsGmcs dc pcstion des hoses de donndes
   SYS'I'EMIF ct SYDONIA. Ce ccimi?ksera ctiiug$ cle publier seinestriellenlent d a l les    ~
   mkdias qui sont Cacile17ientaccessibles au grand public, la liste des esoii6rations y
   compris ICmontant total ct la listc des bbntficiaires ninsi quc les conventions. I1
   transrnettrii annucllcmcnt les rt5sulmts de ses nctivittjs nu parlernent pour suivi et
   appr8ciaticsn. En outre, le Gsuveriiernent s'attellera iitiettre en phase la Charte
   Nationale d'lnvestissement aux differents codes sectoriels avec la Cham Regionale
   d'invcstissement.

28,  La lutte contre la corruptio~~   sera intensifiee, avec I'adoption d'un texte pour la
   protection des drhoncinteurs en maticre de corruption. Dnns ee SCIIS.       il dtk conl'cnu
                                                                                 R
   etut:I'expert du PNLJD puisse appuyer !e Cjouvernertient dam 1`Cfnburntion de ce texte.
   En mCme temps, ilest important de faire m e analyse des irisuffisaiices airisi que des
   imperfections conceinnnt laconformit6 B la coiivcntion de I'ONU coiitre la corruption.
   Par ailleurs, en rnnlidre dt! pussotion des rnurch&spublics, le Gouvcrncment s`cngagc 21
   faire une revue de corifortiiitk des nouvellesproc&dures.

29.  En irialiZre de validation et dc publicotion des comptcs ITE 2007 et 2008, IC
   d6partememt des mines doit accgierur le travail d'uudil de 1'Administratcur
   Independantqui a Ctd recrute par la Barique Mondlole cia^ le cadre du IACXIS 111 en
   i w e de rddiser ccttc activit6 dans le delai.

30.  En rnsrtierc d'application du tiouveau code nkiier, le Guuvarrrerntmt s'engtqge li
   appliquer syst6matiquerncnt les nouvcllcs conventions standard nux 11011veilu)c
   investisszuIS.

31I  Dans le cadre de l'iinitiative PFTE, et dam le sntici de confii-mer l'optioti de gcstion
   rtilionnelle ct durablc des ressources forestiires. le gousertiemetit s'engagt: h mcttre en
   euvre I'adhCsioii au processus AFLEC; conforni6ment aux dispositions du nouveau
   Code Forestier.

        RESt rLTGTS ESCOXlPTES

32. TAU    rt`sultnts csconiptds de ce programtile, que iious comptons pt-oIongcr sur IC
   inopen terme, sont d'aborti iinc mcillcurt: coordination et I'tiarinonisatiriri des acticms
   des parteuaires de d&~eluppetiient mitout des prineipales prioritis du Crouvernernerrl,
   tels que dCcrit dans le DSRP. h'c~usvisans aussi line fortc m@iiorationde la gestion
   des finmccs puhliqucs dans tous les doinaines, tion ssulatnent sur ICplim budgCtaire ct
   coinptahlc nink atmi coneernnnt 1"obligationde reiidre compta. Nom nttnchonv kine
   importance pafliculi&+eP I'am&lioratiunde Ia gestion dcs finances publiques A travers
   l a bonnc exdcution du budget 2009 et la mise en mitvre d'unc r&farme fondai~ientale
   du Budget ct TrCsor. Ce qui est a notre avis un ~lhicnt.      esse:   1    notre programme
   de refortnes Cconorniques c l sociales. Au nivcau de la gnuven~anoe,now escoriiptons




                                               63

   une nm?lioratmn ciii cadre des affaiscs. ce qui dcvrait se tructuirz ptlr LIJWilug~nentation
   de i`investissemcnc privc, tant national qu'ilrirunger, no~~nirnent       dam les secrcws
   rninizr et foresticr qui pourraicnl deLcnir de weritahies ptiles de croissancc. Enfin, im
   nivcau de l a gcslirtn des ressources publiques tant financii-res que natu
   visons line forte ainklioration de la gouvernnncc en gCnGrrzl et dt: la trnnsparence,
   particuliiircmcnt concertiant Ics passations des r7trirchCs publics.


        CADRE INSTITUTIOSNECDEAIISE ENUCUVREDlJ PROGR41\1Ilc(fE

33.  L e programme sera exbcutb par des structiires existantes qui ont fait leur preuve dans
                   progrnmInes pr&cldciits nntomment les deux programmes post conflit
   snutenus par le Fh41et la Banque Mondialc. II s`agh notamment du C'l`P-f'AS. Elks
   sont fedCrees par un cornire inrcrministh+A de pilotage compos6 des Ministrzs
   impliquds dnns la mise en atitre du psagranime. I 1 s'agit, nataninient bu Ministredes
   Finances et dri                      istre d'Etat aux hlines et B 1'Cncrgic. du Ministrc des
   Eaus et FarCts,                     Ia Justice, et du hlinistrc d"Etntnu Plan, d I`Economie
                                       ale, qui en $issure la Prdsidcnce. Le cornit6 de pilotage
   dkfinit les orientations stratdgiyues des travaux iexectiter par les deux structures dc
   gestioii du programrie qui lui rendelit compte pririodiqucment par des rappons de
   suivi de I'Etat de mise cn cawre du programme. Ccs rapports valid& sorit riiis ii la
   disposilim des hailleiirs de foiids dont la Bnnquehltbndiale.

         CONCL1:srON

34.   L e Gout'erncmcnt du la RCp liquc Ccntrafricainc saisit c m c occasion pour
   son engagement        exiiculer eflicricsmcnt ICprugrirmmc cidcril dans la presente le`ttre de
   Politiqut. de Udveloppement Ei l'horizon de trois (3) aim, If est persuade que
   l'eesecution effilciente et satisfaisante de ce programme complttem les tnesures ddj8
   priscs dans l e cadre des deux derniers programmes et eontribuera irelancer
   l'c!contrmie  nrrlirrnuEc sur iinw btisc mine el durable en vue de lu rkdueticm de la
   pnuvrerk. Au regard des rtXcmnes macro~con*miquesckjh enireprises et B la iumikrc
   des objectifs fish dans cf: ptogrammc et des TEsultats obtenus au cours duProgramme
   oppuyC pat. la FnciIitC pour Za ICCrluction dc la I1auvrclBct la Croissmce (FKPC!) qui
   sont t i t s encourageants, le Gouvemeniettt de la RCA VO~IS invite li considkrer
   favorablurncnt sa rcquetc dc financcnicnt du 18 f6vrier 2009 visaiit l`octroi d'uii don
                         dquivnlont L\   eiivirun 5 millions de dollars US islpporter cornme
   apprii budg6tairs pour cornplCLer It.financement de notre Ceunornia. Nous esp$rons
   aussi pouvair vite recevoir des financementa supplkmeritaires a travcrs : (i) le
   mecanisme de ct-ise haricEre e l Ccononiiquc pour 1cs Emu fragilcs qui ont dt4
   durement touches. Enfin, nuus
   l'itiitlative PPTE reriforcCe Jam                               etaiit donnd que notre dette
   cxtdrieure est insoutenable.




                                                7



                                                  64

                   LETTER OFDEVELOPMENT POLICY OF THE
                    GOVERNMENT OF THE CENTRAL AFRICAN
                                    REPUBLIC FOR2008-2010


CENTRAL AFRICANREPUBLIC

MINISTRY OF PLANNING, ECONOMY, AND
INTERNATIONALCOOPERATION

OFFICE OF THE MINISTER

No. 0424/2009/MPECI DIRCAB                                            Bangui, February 20,2009


Mr.RobertB.Zoellick
President o f The Association Group
1818 HStreet, NW
Washington, .D.C. 20433
U.S.A.

                 Subiect:         Transmission o f Letter o f Development Policy in Support o f
                                   the Request for a Grant to the CentralAfrican Republic

Dear Mr.President,

         IhavethehonortotransmittoyoutheLetterofDevelopmentPolicyfromtheGovernmentofthe
Central African Republic, in support o f the request submitted to your institution for a grant inthe amount
o f US$5 million.

         The Central African Republic currently requires significant assistanceto continue implementation
o f its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), against the backdrop o f a fragile financial, economic,
and social environment. The economic recovery that started in recent years, as a result o f the reforms
undertaken by the Government, is still proceeding, but at a halting pace. Without a doubt, despite
improvements in the public finance management sphere, the financial situation i s still difficult, with
fluctuating oil prices, the persistent nature o f the international financial and economic crisis, a very small
tax base, and insufficient mobilization o f external funds relative to the development assistance received
by other post-conflict countries. Against this backdrop, the State can neither guarantee the debt servicing
needed to reach the completion point under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative, nor can it
meet the country's reconstruction needs.

         The grant we are requesting, in the form o f a third contribution to the program for the
reengagement and strengthening o f State institutions, i s intended to help clear the way on two fronts: (i)
greater mobilization o f assistance from the international community, and (ii)strengthened capacity of
State institutions to appropriately implement the economic and social policy set forth in the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).

         Regarding the mobilization o f international aid, the funds with which you will provide us will
help to cover a portion of our financing needs for the third year of implementation o f the program
supported by the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF). The second review o f the program,


                                                        65

 which just took place, i s satisfactory. Moreover, the Government's particular emphasis on achieving the
triggers serves as assurance that the decision point under the Enhanced HPC Initiative, the ultimate path
to achieving substantial debt servicing relief, will be reached as quickly as possible.

        As regards the strengtheningo f our institutions, the structural measures supported by your grant
will focus on strengthening the important areas o f governance, in particular public finance and natural
resource management, in order to best support the reconstruction o f the country. These measures will
complement the progress already made, thanks especially to The Association's assistance through the
implementation o f LICUS 1 and 2. Their execution will be facilitated by the increased mobilization o f
technical assistance for economic and financial management institutions through LICUS 3, supported by
The Association, as well as the African Development Bank, the European Commission, and France.

        The Association has noted that several prior measures have been taken, for which all the
supporting documentation has already been submitted, thus reflecting our determination to tackle head on
the problems facing the country.

        It is our hope that review o f this dossier will lead to a favorable decision by The Association
Group.     '



                                                   Yours sincerely,
                                                   / S I
                                                    SylvainMALIKO
                                                    [Ministry stamp]




                                                        66

INTRODUCTION

1.       The Government's expanded political program for strengthening peace and reconstruction of the
country, with the aim o f maintaining sustained economic growth and effective poverty reduction, i s based
on the four pillars of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) for the period 2008-2010. This three-
year program, prepared with input from all strata o f the national population as well as domestic and
foreign partners, will be subsequently deepened and expanded insectoral programs and strategies.

2.       The four pillars o f the PRSP, which are to (i)restore' security, strengthen peace, and prevent
conflicts; (ii)promote good governance and the rule o f law; (iii)   reconstruct and diversify the economy;
and (iv) develop human capital by means of improved access by the population to basic social services,
primarily inthe areas o f education, health, and combating the HIV/AIDS pandemic, already provide the
broad outline o f the reforms to be implemented by the Government with a view to reconstruction of the
country.

3.       The third budget support program for State reconstruction, which falls into the same category as
the two previous programs (DPO Iand DPO II),focused on improving public finance and natural
                                                      i s
resource management as well as other governance areas (such as combating corruption). Inthe context of
the current economic crisis, this program helps improve governance (pillar ii)and also paves the way for
the diversification and expansion o fproduction (pillar iii),through provisions related to the protection of
investmentsinthe miningand forestry sectors.

4.       Inthe areas identified, work will entail laying the foundation and building the capacity of the
State to forge ahead with the country's reconstruction, while restoring confidence among all the country's
development actors. In order to send a strong signal, this restoration work i s based on the immediate
adoption o f a package o f measures, prior to submission to the IDA Board o f the grant proposal which, if
approved, signed, and implemented, would result inthe grant being disbursed inone single tranche.

5.       The progress report on the first year of PRSP implementation highlighted a number o f important
achievements, which include in particular consistent government action through the work o f sectoral
committees. However, a number o f constraints continue to hinder more effective PRSP implementation
and could adversely affect expected outcomes. These constraints include (i)resource mobilization; (ii)
weak human capacity; and (iii) persistentnature o f the international financial and economic crisis. The
                                 the
course o f action followed by the Government will be guided by outcomes achieved relative to the updated
matrix o f measuresranked by order o f priority around the four pillars identified.

6.       Inthe area of public finance, preliminary measures are guaranteeing sound execution of State
expenditures in 2009 through the adoption o f an accounting plan consistent with OHADA guidelines.
Submission o f the 2008 budget review law to Parliament i s contingent on the confidence inspiredby the
audit office, given the increase inits budget allocation, as well as the direct management o f appropriations
through the appointment o f an authorizing officer for appropriations. As a result of the creation of a
unified treasury account at the Central Bank level, the use o f public funds i s being monitored more
closely. Enhanced resource mobilization capacity is based on the updating o f SYTEMIF files in the
Directorate General o f Taxation using identification data, with UNDP funding, and on diligent oversight
o f exemptions.     The preliminary measures also extend to other areas o f public management and
governance such as strengthening the legal framework in order to combat corruption and implementing
the public procurement code.




                                                      67

MACROECONOMIC AND BUDGETARY FRAMEWORK

7.       The assumptions underlying the 2009 draft budget law are based on the economic outlook for
2009 and on the mid-term achievements o f 2008 budget execution. They did not take into account the
impact o f the international financial crisis on the country's main export products.

8.       The 2009 economic outlook will depend on (i)      continued strengthening o f sociopolitical stability,
with the gradual restoration of security to the interior of the country as a result of implementation of the
recommendations emanating from inclusive political dialogue; (ii)macroeconomic stability, by
strengthening the confidence o f economic operators; (iii)an increase in commodity prices; (iv) the
stabilization o f oil prices; (v) continuation o f the reforms undertaken by the Government with the
assistance of its development partners and the start o f basic infrastructure reconstruction as well as
stronger relations with the international financial institutions, with a view to reaching the completion
point under the HIPC Initiative.

9.       The orientation o f economic policy toward poverty reduction and the strengthening of sustained
economic growth require, among other things, adequate mobilization o f budgetary resources.
Implementation o f this policy will facilitate achievement o f an economic growth rate o f 3 percent in2009,
with an investment rate o f 13.3 percent, and a tax rate o f 10.3 percent. This level of growth is expected to
be sustained by the maintenance o f primary sector activities, with a growth rate o f 1.6 percent. Taking
into account a number o f constraints, the growthrate o f the secondary sector i s projected at approximately
1.3 percent, attributable to major roadwork slated to begin in2009. The 2009 economic growth rate o f the
tertiary sector i s projectedto be 4.4 percent.

 10.     Inthis context, GDP incurrent prices is estimated at CFAF 936.521 billion for 2009. This level
o f growth should be attributable to (i)    assistance with food production through implementation o f the
Food Crisis Response Program funded by The Association and AfDB; (ii)             resumption o f major road-
building projects (the road from Bouar to Gara-Mboulal; the rehabilitation o f Bangui's roads); (iii)
continued expansion o f telephone coverage into the country's interior; and (iv) continued public finance
reforms.

 11.     In the area of revenues, tax collectionprojections for 2009 are based on the upward revision o f
2008 and 2007 figures. The growth in revenue in 2009 i s a consequence o f the provisions o f the 2006-
2008 budget laws, along with unplanned developments and the implementation o f a series o f
administrative structural measures. The country's own.resources should amount to 110.9 billion in 2009,
plus external financial assistance.

 12.     Structural measures pertain to the administration o f the State corporations and authorities
(Riggies). At the level o f the Directorate General o f Taxation, work done in 2007 and 2008 must be
bolstered and enhanced through emphasis on (i)        broadening the value added tax base by eliminating the
VAT exemptions (with the exception of transactions conducted by agencies working in the area of
 external financing), making taxpayers taxed at the minimumrate also liable for VAT and the business tax
 (patente) on the basis o f their sales volumes, and making VAT collection at source a general practice; (ii)
 increasing targeted checks includingchecks o f stocks; (iii)   reporting leases believed to be fictitious; and
 (iv) stepping up the collectiono ftax arrears.

 13.     The effect o f the above-mentioned economic activities on the tax base must also be added to the
 impact o f these measures: (i)the start o f roadwork; (ii)the impact o f regular payment o f wages and
 salaries on consumption; and (iii)  the expansionof forestry activities to new companies.




                                                        68

14.     At the level o f the Directorate General o f Customs, the improvements will take place in the
following areas: (i) buildingthe capacity o f the one-stop shop (Guichet Unique) to carry out its security
role with respect to import flows; (ii)strengthening the border teams for tracking purposes from the
border to the interior o f the country; (iii)oversight at the container port; (iv) continuing adoption of the
SYD0NIA-t-t computerized information system; (v) encouraging the resumption o f river traffic at
reasonable levels; (vi) continuing implementation o f reforms; (vii) controlling fuel taxation through
application o f the automatic pricing formula; (viii) levying excise duty at customs points on wine inbulk,
ethyl alcohol, and tobacco; and (ix) suspending tax exemptions on a number o f products (such as cement
and sheet metal),

15.     With regard to the Directorate General o f the Treasury, the Directorate o f Collection and
Prosecution will strengthen gains achieved by (i)   broadening the collection base in the ministries in order
to increase collection o f minor revenue items; (ii) mobilizing counterpart funds from Japanese grants for
financing the expenditures o f the health, education, and agricultural sectors; and (iii)   mobilizing funds
from the reassessment o f telecommunications fees.

16.     The contribution o f external resources to investment expenditures has risen from CFPLF 31.4
billion in 2008 to CFAF 39.4 billion in 2009 and i s composed entirely o f subsidies for capital projects
amounting to CFAF 39.4 billion. This increase in external financing i s attributable to the carry over into
2009 of large-scale roadprojects that started behind schedule in2008, and to the projects inthe electricity
and water sectors. Moreover, the activities planned using external financing are predominantly in the
social sectors.

17.      In the area of expenditure, Government expenditures have risen by 20 percent compared to
2008-from     CFAF 150.9 billion in 2008 to CFAF 181.0 billion in 2009. Rigidity factors play a
significant role here; specifically the requirement to comply with the community rule that the budget
deficit not exceed 3 percent o f GDP. The context i s not very favorable for achievement o f this target,
given the partial payment o f salaries o f government officials and state agents and new expenditure items
to be covered.

RESTORATION AND MAINTENANCE OF EXTERNAL SOLVENCY

18.      The Central African Republic was granted interim relief for 90 percent o f its multilateral debt
servicing once it reached the decision point under the HIPC Initiative on January 14, 2008. This will
enable it to service its debt on a regular basis and to receive fresh assistance at concessional rates from
development banks. We have also asked our official creditors to commit to maintaining net positive
transfers, inorder to ensure equitable treatment among all creditors as well as the financial viability o f the
program.

19.      The European Commission, France, the AfDB, and most donors provide assistance in the form o f
grants. A comparison with other post-conflict countries shows that the Central African Republic receives
smaller grant amounts inrelation to GDP. Once the completionpoint has beenreached, the Government
will have to mobilize support essentially inthe form o f much more sizeable grants and concessional loans
under the program, in order to achieve a positive and significant level of official net transfers, maintain
the debt profile, and ensure debt servicing on a regular basis. This is necessary for the comprehensive
financing o f projected measures and actions.

PRELIMINARYACTIONS

20.      EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT. Preliminary actions focus largely on the problems
encountered with the execution o f budgetary expenditures through the implementation o f a new


                                                       69

expenditure circuit and a new accounting plan that i s consistent with OHADA guidelines. Submission of
the 2008 budget review law to Parliament is one of the key objectives of the program. Improvements
provided for under LICUS I11 will facilitate complete integration o f expenditures into the budgetary
channel in order to complete establishment o f an administrative account and move on to preparation of
the 2008 budgetreview law. Capacity buildingwithin the audit office is essential ifthis commitmentis to
bemet. An analysis done by the Government with technical assistance from the IMF and the audit office
o f the Treasury pointed to the needto reduce the plethora of these accounts over which the Treasury does
not necessarily have control and whose activities are not tracked as part o f the Treasury's operations. The
Government and the mission have drawn up a list o f 52 accounts to be closed immediately (prior to
January 15,2009). These are active debit accounts. Transparency i s guaranteed through the involvement
o f technical advisers funded by the development partners. These advisers participate in the discussion
group on the auditing o fthese accounts in2008.

21.      REVENUE MANAGEMENT. At the moment, in the context of revenue collection efforts by
the State through the Directorate General o f Taxation and State Property, the Government has updatedthe
SYSTEMIF and SYDONIA databaseswith new financial unitsthat have been identifiedinthe field using
UNDP funding. The tax identification number has to be assigned to 6,320 economic units. Inthe case of
exemptions, Government has published a Ministerial order instructing the Directorates General of
Customs and Taxation to systematically submit a report on the number o f exemptions granted and
rejected to the interministerial committee responsible for monitoring tax and customs exemptions. The
members o f the committee have also been granted access to the SYSTEMIF and SYDONIA databases for
reportpreparation purposes.

22.      IMPROVEMENT OF GOOD GOVERNANCE. The measures pertaining to this sector are
critical to strengthening the transparency o f public resource management. Apart from the adoption o f the
accounting plan and improved revenue collection, the preliminary work to complete this measure entails
(i) bymeansofdecree,theadministrativeandgeneralconditionsofcontractforimplementing
    adopting,
public procurement reform; (ii)     appointing the official responsible for regulating public procurement; and
(iii)appointing the permanent secretariat and dispute committee official with a view to the sound
execution o fpublic procurement inthe Central African Republic.

23.       Inthe area of strengthening governance inthe natural resource sector, the Government has made
a commitment to suspend, by means o f presidential decree, the granting o f new mines permits until the
new miningcode i s adopted. In addition, in the forestry area, the Government has issued an order, by
means o f ministerial note, to systematically publish in the communes the mechanism for distribution
among the Treasury, CASDFT [Compte d 'Affectation' Spdciale de Ddveloppement Forestier et
Touristique],and communes o fthe amounts transferredto the latter's accounts for their development.


FUTUREACTIONS

24.       The foundation for the reconstruction o f the country mustbe established, that is, a standard set for
economic governance and financial transparency that guarantees (i)         proper use o f public funds; (ii)full
mobilization o f the international community; (iii) and successful execution o f the PRSP; and (iv)
                                                       sound
the return o f investors, first to the miningand forestry sectors, followed by other sectors, once confidence
has beenrestored.

25.       We intend to make significant progress with the macroeconomic and budgetary framework as
well as in such key areas o f public management as good governance linked to the protection of public
resources, investors, and natural resources.




                                                        70

26.      The following outcomes are expected in the area o f the macroeconomic and budgetary
framework: staying the course from an economic and budgetary standpoint; achieving a significant
increase in tax revenue, essential for the restoration of expenditure and poverty reduction; implementing
PRSP investment programs compatible with priorities; and preparing the 2010 budget using a budget
nomenclature that is harmonized with accounting nomenclature, taking into account reliable
socioeconomic data. We also intend to create a network between the Budget and Treasury Directorates
General, in order to avoid a buildup o f any kind o f new domestic arrears and to reduce the current stock
of arrears. Submission to the audit office o f the 2008 and 2009 management accounts and the
corresponding budget review laws are also a priority, given that this i s essential to help restore the
confidence o f economic and social partners inthe Government.

27.      With respect to improved revenue collection, the Government undertakes to create a network for
the office of the interministerial committee responsible for customs andtax exemption oversight usingthe
SYSTEMIF and SYDONIA database management systems. This committee will be responsible for
publishing, on a quarterly basis and ina media form that is easily accessible to the general public, the list
of exemptions, includingthe total amount, the list o fbeneficiaries, and the conventions. It will submit the
outcomes of its activities to Parliament annually for monitoring and assessment.         Furthermore, the
Government will make every effort to bringthe various sectoral codes o f the National Investment Charter
inline with theRegionalInvestmentCharter.

28.      Efforts to combat corruption will be stepped up, with the adoption o f texts to protect
whistleblowers. To this end, it was agreed that the UNDP expert can assist the Government with the
drafting o f this text. At the same time, it i s impohant to analyze shortcomings and deficiencies with
respect to conformity with the United Nations Convention against Corruption. In addition, the
Government undertakes to review the conformity o fnew procedures inthe area o f public procurement.

29.      With regard to validation and publication o f 2007 and 2008 EITI accounts, the Department of
Mines [is seeking to] expedite the audit activities o f the independent administrator hired by The
Association under LICUS I11to conduct this activity by the deadline.

30.      In the area of implementation of the new mining code, the Government undertakes to apply
systematically the new standard conventions to new investors.

31.      Inthe context ofthe new HIPC initiative and inabidto strengthen the rational and sustainable
management o f forestry resources, the Government commits to undertake the process o f accession to
AFLEG [Africa Forest Law Enforcement and Governance], pursuant to the provisions o f the new
Forestry Code.


EXPECTEDOUTCOMES
32.      The outcomes expected fiom this program, which we plan on extending over the mediumterm,
are, in the first place, better coordination and harmonization o f the development partners' actions around
the Government's main priorities, as described inthe PRSP. We are also seeking a marked improvement
in the management ofpublic finances inall fields, not only inthe budgetary and accounting spheres, but
also in the area of accountability. We attach particular importance to improved management o f public
finances through sound execution o f the 2009 budget and the implementation o f a thoroughgoing Budget
and Treasury reform process, which we view as a key component o f our economic and social reform
program. Regarding governance, we expect an improvement in the business climate, which should spur
an increase inprivate investment, both domestic and foreign, especially inthe forestry and mining sectors,
which could become true development hubs in the future. Finally, in terms o f public resource



                                                      71

management-both      financial and natural-we     are aiming at a significant improvement in governance in
general as well as intransparency, particularly with regard to public procurement.


INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORKFORIMPLEMENTATIONOFTHE PROGRAM

33.     The program will be executed by the existing entities, which have demonstrated their capability
in the management of past programs-especially the two post-conflict programs supported by the IMF
and the Association, in particular implementation o f the CTP-PAS. These programs are run by an
interministerial steering committee composed o f the ministers involved in the implementation o f the
program, including the Minister o f State for Planning, the Economy, and International Cooperation, the
Minister o f State for Mines and Energy, the Minister o f Water and Forest Resources, the Minister o f
Justice, and the Minister of Finance and the Budget, who serves as chairman. The steering committee
identifies the strategic orientations o f the work to be executedby the program's two management entities,
which provide it with periodic progress reports on the implementation o f the program. These reports, once
approved, are made available to the donors, includingThe Association.


CONCLUSION
34.     The Government o f the Central African Republic takes this opportunity to reiterate its
commitment to efficient implementation o f the program described in this Letter o f Development Policy,
over the next three years. It is confident that competent and satisfactory execution o f this program will
contribute to the revival o f the national economy, on a sound and sustainable footing and with a view to
poverty reduction. Against the backdrop o f the macroeconomic reforms already undertaken, and in light
o f the objectives fixed in this program and the results obtained during the course o f the program
supported by the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), which are most encouraging, the
Government o f the Central African Republic calls on you to give favorable considerationto its request o f
February 18, 2009, for a grant in an amount equivalent to approximately US$5 million, in order to
provide significant budgetary support to our economy. We also hope to quickly receive additional
financing through the Fragile States Facility. Finally, we very much hope to reach the completion point
under the Enhanced HIPC Initiative at the earliest possible date, in light o f the unsustainability o f our
external debt.

                                                             Svlvain MALIKO




                                                       72

M
r-

      4-
      0




3
m
.I


3
3
N
!!

D
8
g
Z


0

     8
     e.


                            Annex 3: HIPC CompletionPointTriggers




PRSP:Preparationofthe PRSPthrough a participatoryprocessand satisfactory implementation of its
recommendedactionsfor at least one year from the date the document is approvedby the Cabinet, as evidenced
by aPRSPAnnual ProgressReportsubmittedby the governmentto the satisfactionof IDA andthe IMF.

Macroeconomic stability: Maintenanceofmacroeconomicstability as evidencedby satisfactory
implementationof the PRGFarrangement.

Transparency: Satisfactory implementationof (i)the provision of articles 44 and75 ofthe Constitutionlinked
to asset declarationanddisclosure by the PrimeMinister, Membersof the Government and Membersof the
ConstitutionalCourt; (ii)a new decree extending the obligation of asset declarationanddisclosure to senior
public enterprise officials and some key senior civil servants.

Structural reform: Improvethe regulatory oversight and reportingframework through:
Forestry sector: (i)adoptionby Parliamentof a satisfactory new forestry code andissue of some key ministerial
decrees on its implementingregulations, and their satisfactory implementation; and(ii)undertakingan
awareness campaignfor communities andthe establishmentof astandingpublic informationsystem.
Mining sector: (i)publicationon the government's internetsite of the report o fthe ExtractiveIndustries
Transparency Initiative (EITI) administrator on miningrevenue starting from 2006; and (ii) adoptionby
Presidentialdecree of a satisfactory standard-formagreement for mining(in conformitywith current
internationalbest practices) and adoption by Parliamento f satisfactoryamendmentsto the mining code to ensure
their consistency.

Public financial management:Improvethe effectiveness, transparency, and accountabilityin public financial
management, particularlythrough: (i)   preparationand submissionto Parliament ofthe budgetusingthe new
nomenclature;(ii)satisfactoryimplementationof a new expendituretracking system 60m commitment to
authorization(using the new budgetnomenclature) within the General BudgetDirectorate;(iii) satisfactory
implementationof the new payroll management system; and (iv) adoption by Parliament of a satisfactory new
procurementcode andthe start of its satisfactory implementation.

Civil service reform: Begin civil servicereformby (i)the adoptionby the Cabinet of a satisfactorynew organic
framework consistentwith the PRSPobjectives, basedon organizationalaudits; and (ii)the submissionto the
inter-ministerialcouncil of satisfactory new rules andregulationsfor civil servants with a corresponding
compensationand performanceassessment system.

Public debt management:Improvepublic debt managementthrough(i)           the establishmentby the Debt
ManagementUnit (Direction de la Detre) of satisfactoryproceduresfor, andmaintenanceof, an accurate,
comprehensive, andsecure databaseof public- andpublicly-guaranteeddebt (domestic and external), and(ii)
satisfactory implementationof periodic publicationo fpublic- andpublicly-guaranteeddebt data (stocks, debt
service projections,and key debt ratios) within six monthsafter the end o f the fiscal year.

Social sectors and HIV/AIDS:
Education:(i) at least 750 additionalteachers will be teaching at the primary level comparedto 2006-07 levels;
and (ii)implementationof educationalandadministrativemeasuresmakingit possibleto achieve arepetition
rate of less than 20 percent at the primary levelinareas where schools are operatingnormally.
Health: (i)keep DPT3 vaccinationratesat 80 percent or higher; and (ii)distributeat least300,000 treated
mosquitonets.
HIVIAIDS: improvepreventionby increasingthe social marketingof condoms (proxiedby the amountof
imports)to an annual level of at least 10million.




                                                    78

                              Annex 4: IDA Activities in the CentralAfricanRepublic

               Description


RIBSUP         US$82million re-engagementbudget support operation. US$75million were usedto pay arrears and debt servicing
(DPO I)        and US$7million was used for budget support. The operation supportedreforms in: (i) public finance management;
FY07           (ii) state-ownedenterprises; (iii) governance; and(iv) naturalresourcemanagement.On public finance management,
               (i) significant progress has been made on the expenditure front with tighter monitoring of cash advances, the
               creationof a line-itemnot exceeding 10percent for unforeseenexpenditures, the adoptionof a decree for the reform
                of public expenditureprocedures. However, the preparation of the new budget nomenclatureis proceedingslowly,
               which compromises its readiness for the 2008 budget; (ii)with respect to revenue mobilization, the Treasury has
               been incorporating in the public account the amount of revenues captured by all line ministries and agencies at a
               percentage set by the Minister of Finance. The audit of the pre-clearance office in Douala (Guichet Unique) was
               completed. Based on the main recommendations of the report, the authorities are drafting an action plan that will
               form the basis of the mainreforms underpinningthe revamping of the Guichet Unique. The survey of tax payers at
               the national level will start in the last quarter of 2007, with financing from UNDP. Subsequent to this phase, the
               Association financed the registration of taxpayers in the SYSTEMIF and ASYCUDA systems of the tax and
               customs departments through LICUS 11. LICUS I1 also financed the reconciliationof the tax base between the
               customs and the BEAC to improve tracking and predictability of receipts. The state-owned enterprise component
               was delayed: settlement ofthe 2007 tax and utility bills betweenutility companies(electricity,water, and telephone)
               and the administration had been hindered by lack of cash at the level of the Treasury, and poor management of
               cross-liabilities,

Multisectoral  US17 million project approved in FY02 and restructuredin FY07. The objectives of the Project are to assist the
HIV/AIDS       Recipient to contribute to: (a) urgent needs in the fight against HIV, such as access to prevention, treatment, and
Project        impact mitigationservices; (b) urgent social needs, such as preventionof malaria, increased access to water supply
FY07           and improvedprimary education. The Project supports four key areas: (i) the NationalProgram against HIV-AIDS
               Component; (ii) Support to Emergency Health Needs Component; (iii) Support to Emergency Needs in the
               EducationSector Component; and (iv) Support to FinancialManagement andProcurement.

Emergency      US18million investmentproject which aimsto increaseaccess to infrastructureand urbanservices in Bangui.The
Urban          project will rapidly rehabilitate, restore, improve and expand sustainable access to basic infrastructureservices for
Infrastructure the population of the most deprived districtsof Bangui. The achievement of this objective would support GoCAR's
FY07           efforts to demonstrate visible and tangible improvements in the lives o f i t s citizens that are critical for sustaining
                social andpolitical stabilityinthe country.

CEMAC          US201 million regionalinvestmentprojectincludingCameroonCAR and Chad, part of a US $ 700 million donor
Transport      effort which aims to secure access to landlocked countries, enhance regional integration and increase trade in the
Transit        CEMAC countries.It consists of three sub-components: (i)      roads and rail investment; (ii) investment in facilitation,
Facilitation    inter-modal platforms and port efficiency; and (iii) support to customs reforms and institutionalsupport to policy
FY07            improvements.
               CAR Component of the project funded by IDA (US$24 million ) mainlyconsists of (i) a contributionto the paving
                of the Douala-Banguilink, as well as supportto roadmaintenance,customsreform, and transport policy design

CEMAC Africa   US$45milljon regionalinvestment project which in the first phase will cover Cameroon, CAR and Chad. It aims to
Backbone       support population, businesses and Governments across the Central African region to have access to quality and
FY09           affordable ICT services by lowering the cost of international broadband capacity, and extending reach the of
               backbone networks. It is also expected to improve Government efficiency and transparency through the
                development of Governmentapplications.

LICUSI          US$4million Trust Fund. The overarchingobjectives of LICUS Iwas to recreate and strengthen the Government's
FY04            technical capacity for public finance management and to support the provisionof social and economic services to
                the population.The first phase of LICUS Iprovidedimmediatesupport for revenue collectionand for reducingfraud
                and corruption in revenue administration. In a second phase, the grant further deepened PFM reforms, promoted
                governance and financial   transparency and supported the provisionof economic and social services with quick and
                visibleimpacts.

LICUS I1        US$6.4million Trust Fund. LICUS I1built on the achievementsof the first grant for public financemanagementand
FY07            governance and consists of four components: (i) EnhancingGovernance and Economic Management Systems; (ii)
                Mining Sector Assessment; (iii)Community-Driven Development I1 Social Sectors; (iv) Interim Support to



                                                                79

1I              HIV/AIDS Treatment.

 LICUS111       US$2million Trust Fund. The EnhancingGovernance and Economic Management Systems (EGEMAS 11) provides
 FY08           technicalassistance to deepen reforms in public administrationandto enhance governance andthe countrybusiness
                mvironment, especially with regardto oil andminingregulatoryreform.

 LICUS          U S 2 million. The Social Service Delivery Grant secured short-term,just-in-time support to protect social service
 Emergency      workers' salaries in the periodMarch-April 2008 until further externalresourceswere mobilized.
 Operation


 Poverty Report Preparation of a poverty report for CAR, based on urban and rural household surveys. The report provided
                quantitativeanalysis as well as a review of available qualitativeevidence on a range of topics: poverty profile and
I               determinants of poverty, income sources, educationandhealthservices, basic infrastructure.
ICFAFA          The CFAFA was finalized in October 2007. This report identifieda series of deficiencies and shortcomings in the
                CAR'S public financial management and includes a global action plan of recommendations on the legal and
                institutional framework, budget and expenditures management, and customs and tax administration. A short-
                medium-term actionplan has been discussedwith the Government of the CAR, focusing on the following areas: (i)
                policy measures to strengthen budget formulation and preparation, budget execution and reporting; (ii) reforms to
                further rationalize treasuryoperations; and (iii) the capacityofthe Government to mobilizerevenue

                A CPIP was completed in April 2006, providing an assessment of the country's public procurement system and
                proposes an action plan to improve and align procurementprocesses with internationally-recognized standard^.^'
                Actions recommended in the CPIP include the adoption of a new procurement code with regulations for standard
                bidding documents and guides, and the establishment of new procurement institutions.The EMGRG proposes to
                support the Government's efforts to operationalize the new procurementprocedures, notably the establishment of
                the Direction Gkne`raldes Marchis and theAgence de Regulation and the decentralizationof procurementprocesses
                to four key ministries, once the new procurement code is passed by the National Assembly. To assess the
                effectivenessofthe Government's efforts, this operationproposes the conductof a post-procurementreview.

                The report examines the constraints to regional and international trade integration. It identifiesthe dire situation of
                the country's public finances as one of the significant problems that affects the country's competitiveness. Low
                levels of revenue and investment has led to a situation of poor infrastructure, which makes trade particularly
                difficult. The continueddeterioration inthe social sectorshas likewiseledto an erosionof the CAR'Shuman capital.
                The EMGRG explicitly focuses on the need to improve the capacity of the Government to mobilize domestic
 L              revenue, through improvedtax administration. Among the findingsof the report which are relevantto this operation
                are those concerning the forestry sector. The DTIS recommends a thorough review of the pricing of permits, as
                current pricingdoes not reflectregionalbestpractice.It welcomes recent effortsmadeby the Government to harvest
                resources in a more sustainable manner, as this will raise economic growth and poverty reduction in the medium-
                turn.

                The PEFA exercise is an integrated monitoring framework that allows measurement of the country PFM
                performanceover time. The information provided by this framework also contributes to the Government reform
                process by determining which reforms are yielding improved performanceand by increasing the ability to identify
                and learn from reform success. It acts as a framework for pinpointing strengths and weaknesses in financial
                accountability arrangements in the public sector, thereby helpingthe Government and donors to identify priorities
                for reform and supports both the exercise of the donors' fiduciaryresponsibilitiesand the achievement of broader
                development objectives.

 DEMPA          The CAR is amongthe first countries selected for this debt managementtechnical assistance(FYO8), which aims to
 FY08           strengthen capacity and institutions to manage Government debt in an effective and sustainable manner, by
                assessing performance through a comprehensive set of performance indicators spanning the full range of
                Government debt management functions, highlighting strengths and weaknesses. When finished, the DEMPA
                exercise (FY08), will providea baselineof debt managementperformanceindicators, on which the country's future
                debt managementperformancewill be assessed. It will be a valuable tool in assistingthe Government improves its
                debt management capacity, which is particularly important in a country which in the past has fallen into external




                                                                  80

                                 Annex 5: LICUSTrust Funds

1.      Ingeneral, implementation of activities funded by the first LICUS grant has been
satisfactory, albeit challenging. Major obstacles included: (i)the absence o f Government
services that could play the role of executing agencies, (ii)weak Government capacity to
supervise activity implementation and (iii)the low level o f the Association's presence in
the country. It was therefore decided to subcontract management to UNDP.
Implementationwas initially very slow until2005, following the assignment o f a resident
economist to Bangui. Results are reported below for each activity.

LICUS I

2.      Deterringcorruption and tax evasion in revenue mobilization(US$159,500).
The objective o f this activity was to increase revenue collection by reducing tax evasion
and corruption. The goal was to catch a number o f corrupt individuals and give them
exemplary punishment, thereby deterring corruption practices. A unit (CEMIFI) was set
up to fight corruption and tax evasion and its members were nominated on October 22,
2004, and renewed thereafter. The LICUS grant financed communications equipment and
vehicles for the unit; the equipment was delivered in March 2005, while vehicles and
other equipment were delivered in July 2005. The unit i s now operational and has been
reporting monthly to the Minister o f Finance on progress on its task. The work o f the unit
has contributed to Government revenue collection, and on one occasion, it helped to
recover an amount o f CFAF450 million, which could have been lost without its efforts.

3.      Capacity buildingin the Treasury department (US$68,000). On the basis o f
reports o f staff visits to treasury departments in Cameroon and Benin, the Minister o f
Finance set up a Government task team on budget and accounting reform. This team has
been instrumental in (i)   the organization o f a workshop in August 2005 on the status o f
the budget and accounting reform, whose objective was to build consensus amongst civil
servants as to the need for and the principles o f reform; and (ii) preparation o f new
                                                                    the
laws on Public Finance, which have been presented to Parliament in 2006. Finally,
reports have been prepared on the reorganization o f the treasury department and the
upgrading o f the treasury accounting system that will help to strengthen public finance
management systems, notably as regards budget executionand cash management.

4.      Audit of Treasury Arrears (US$70,000). A consultant was recruited to support
the Government commission set up to carry out a census o f Government domestic
arrears. The final report, prepared after full consultation with key stakeholders proposed
that the resolution o f the domestic debt problem will require: (i)an exhaustive census o f
the domestic debt, (ii) verification and validation o f the domestic debt and finally (iii)
                         the
the adoption of a clearance strategy. Subsequently, IDA and the Government have agreed
that the verification and validation o f the stock o f debt should be undertaken by a
competitively selected international auditor inline with international standards.

5.      Controlof Governmentpersonneland payroll(US$77,500). The objective was
to establish effective control over the number o f civil servants and the payroll, which the


                                              81

CAR Government considered as a major and strategic reform. In support of the work
done with UNDP funding since 2001, LICUS resources were used to fund two
consultants, with the objective o f setting up an integrated and computerized system for
civil service career and payroll management. An interim system i s under preparation and
i s expected to be operational no later than January 2007. However, the completion of the
above reform will need increased financial resources, which were provided under LICUS
11.

6.      Leadership seminars (US$252,380). Two seminars were organized inNovember
2004 and December 2005 respectively. The first seminar brought together leaders in the
political sphere and in the civil society and aimed at sensitizing them as to their
responsibilities in fostering a peaceful and nonviolent transition, with a view to seizing
the opportunities that would come from successful elections, notably the return of the
donor community to support the country in overcoming its financial crisis and in
addressing its development challenges. The key output was an agreed Code of conduct
that was endorsed and signed by major political leaders, which i s seen as having been
instrumental in assuring the peaceful preparation and completion o f delicate legislative
and presidential elections inMarch and May 2005, The December 2005 seminar targeted
the same category o f participants, but focused on how to implement reforms through a
Rapid Results Initiative, inthe areas o frevenue collection and delivery o f social services.

7.      PRSP finalization (US$964,940; Bank-executed): With the advent of newly-
elected institutions in March and May 2005, Government priorities changed and the
dynamics o freengagement with the donor community gathered steam to the point that, in
July 2005, the CAR country team decided, together with the Government, that the
residual first LICUS allocation in an amount o f US$718,640 should be used to fund
enhanced technical assistance to the country on PRSP finalization. Specifically, experts
have been hired to advise the Government in the following areas: (i)    strategic planning,
monitoring and evaluatioh, (ii)  macroeconomic analysis and programming, and (iii)        the
PRSP participation process. These consultants began their assignments inMay 2005, and
as a result, the pace o f PRSP preparation substantially accelerated, particularly with
respect to participation and monitoring and evaluation. Furthermore, in addition to his
PRSP activities, the M&E advisor has been instrumental in helping the authorities to
prepare a multi-sector matrix which sets forth key policy actions to be undertakenover
the next 12-24 months. This matrix has served as the basis of the Government's
Declaration o f Economic and Social Policy that will underpin their request for
internationalsupport o f arrears clearance and donor reengagement.

LICUS I1

 8.     LICUS I1was approved in October 2006, before the negotiation and approval o f
the DPO. Implementationof the LICUS I1was slow inthe beginning, because the Bank
 CAR team and the CAR public administration staff were all totally absorbed by the
reengagement progress. After the LICUS I1 approval, the following tasks were
 completed: (i) RIBSUP, (ii) JISN, (iii) Preliminary HIPC document, (iv) the
                the                the           the
 final PRSP, (v) and the HIPC decision point document. The intensity o f work agenda on
 CAR did not permit close supervision o f the LICUS 11, and that i s why one year after the


                                              82

grant approval, implementation is not completed. However, LICUS I1 implementation
has been accelerated during the second semester of 2007. An additional explanation of
the above performance is that LICUS I1grant was the first IDAproject to be executedby
a Government unit, after country reengagement with the Association, which required
building capacity in the executing unit, before the latter can operate at performing level.
The learning curve and the technical capacity at the executing agency have reached a
highlevel so that the remainingactivities are goingto beimplemented very rapidly.

LICUS EmerPency Operation

9.      Social Service Delivery Grant (US$2,000,000). The main purpose o f this grant
was to secure short-term, just-in-timesupport ta protect social service workers' salaries
in the period March-April 2008 until further external resources could be realistically
mobilized. The immediate objective o f the grant was to avoid a disruption o f social
service delivery at this critical time. Non-payment o f salaries as a result o f other payment
obligations could have triggered internal unrest, broadened the civil service strike, and
hardened the position o f unions regarding the payment schedule for past salary arrears as
pre-condition for resumingwork.

L I C U S I11

Public Finance Management and Governance Support

10.     Enhance revenue collection (US$250,000). This component aims (i)to build
technical capacity in the tax department and (ii)to upgrade the management o f the
CECIFD. Implementation o f these activities will build on the progress achieved by prior
efforts o f rehabilitation o f the tax and customs administration in the context o f LICUS I
and 11, and from other donors, and notably UNDP, the European Commission and France.
LICUS Ifunded an initiative to deter corruption and tax evasion inrevenue mobilization,
while LICUS I1resources are beingusedto (i) harmonize and establish a link between
                                                  to
customs (SYDONIA)          and tax (SYSTEMIF) databases, and (ii)to study the
import/exports tax base by reconciling Central Bank and Customs databases. Since the
transitional period, CAR has benefited from the support o f the donor community in its
process to reform the tax and customs administration. In particular, the European
Commission i s currently providing a long-term support to CAR, notably aimed at
revamping the customs department. IDA, the IMF, UNDP and France have also provided
support in terms o f diagnostic studies and short interventions to enhance revenue
collection institutions.

11.     Improve budget preparation, execution and reporting (US$625,000). The
objective o f this component i s to provide sustained T A to the Ministryo f Finance and the
Court of Accounts inorder to enhance the management o fpublic expenditures, as well as
the budget execution reporting. Inthe end, this should be reflected in: (i) timely and
                                                                                 the
sound preparation o f the budget law, (ii) adequate monitoring and comprehensive
                                                an
supervision o f treasury operations; (iii)  the preparation of budget execution reports, and
finally (iv) the timely review o f Government financial reports by the Court o f accounts
and preparation o f the budget execution law (loi de reglement), before its transmission to



                                               83

the Parliament. The Association's support of policy reforms inthis area was designedin
the context o f the RIBSUP, as well as at the occasion o f the identification o f HPC
completion point triggers. The following reforms were initiated in the context o f the
RIBSUP: (i) audit o f the treasury department operations for 2006, (ii)stringent
               the
monitoringo f Government cash advances, (iii)     integration o f all Government revenues, in
the treasury system, and finally (iv) the upgrading of the budget and accounting
nomenclatures. LICUS I1 resources were used in the implementation o f the RLBSUP
reforms and by end-2007 progress was satisfactory, and the impact inthe handling o f the
Government expenditures i s positive. It i s worth mentioning that the EMGRG Iaims to
move forward the above agenda to substantially revamp and upgrade the country public
finance management system.

12.     Public Administration Management reforms (US$350,000).                 Support from
UNDP and the Association (with LICUS Iresources) over the period 2001-2005
contributed incarrying out a thorough diagnostic o f the public administration sector. The
component objective i s to support (i)   the preparation of a new organic framework for
civil service based on the organizational audits which i s consistent with PRSP objectives,
and (ii)the adoption o f new rules and regulations for the civil servants, with
compensation and performance assessment systems. The new organic framework will
buildon organizational audits which will be launched very soonunderUNDP and LICUS
I1funding, and will feature new employment nomenclatures, a new organizational set up
as well as required set o f skills for each employment position. The new organic
framework will also encompass an integrated computerized system to manage the civil
servants that will have the following features (i)clear TORS for each employment
position, (ii)an adequate computer software, (iii)    revisedmanuals o fprocedures, (iv) on-
site training o f users, and (v) the commissioning o f the new organic framework. The new
rules and regulations refer to the statute o f civil servants, the remuneration scale, and the
management structure o fthe civil servants management.

13.      Reform and modernize the oil and energy sector (US$250,000). The
Government has recently launched a reform o f the oil sector, aiming to ensure adequate
storage, distribution and pricing o f petroleum products and to guarantee quality product
supplies as well as country strategic oil reserves. On the other hand, the oil business
should be a fiscal revenue source commensurate with the size o f the activity and its
importance to the economy. In this context, the Government has enacted a new Law in
the first semester o f2007 that seeks to address most o fthe above-mentioned aspects. The
objectives o f the Government's reform are (i)     to develop a stable market through open
and fair competitionbetweenoperators by diversifying its supplybase from procurement
and transport o f product to handling, storage, and distribution; (ii)   to generate a regular
and steady stream o f fiscal revenue to the State budget while ensuring supply at
affordable prices; and (iii) to secure the country's strategic reserve o fpetroleum products.
Inorder to reach these objectives, the Government intendsto launch a range of structural
reforms as follows: (i)   the strengtheningof institutions involved in the management of
the oil sector, and primarily the staffing of the newly-created regulatory agency, (ii)    the
revision and completion o f the pricing structure in the oil sector; (iii) revision o f the
                                                                           the
sector legislation. This LICUS I11component will provide resources to fund the technical
assistance neededto carry out these reforms, building on earlier IDA support that helped


                                               84

settle a dispute between the Government and Total, the only private firm operating inthe
oil sector.

14.     Deepen reforms in the mining sector (US$500,000). The Association has been
at the forefront in helping CAR improve governance and transparency standards in the
management o f national resources, and in particular in the mining and forestry sectors,
through the LICUS I1and the DPO program. The LICUS I1funded an assessment o f the
miningsector; inthis context, an international firmwas recently recruited and is currently
in the field to carry out a thorough assessment of the mining sector. The analysis will
provide a useful sector diagnostics and will help the Government, the donor community
and the private sector on how to promote and support business in this strategic area.
LICUS I1will also fund consultation of stakeholders in the mining sectors so that they
can provide their input in the upgrading o f the regulatory. The objective o f this
component i s to recruit experts that will help to design standard investment agreements in
the miningsector and to revise the miningcode.




                                              85

                   :E n ~ a ~~e ~o n ~~ eandECQaomieManagementSystems-EG
                                            ~    ~        ~ ~ e
                                    -_                                                     -"--I
                                      .-
                                       --.
h b j e c t i v e s   LICUS I          LlCUS I1(3,223,700)     LlCUS111       Outconies and
                     ($1,592,320)                             ($2,000,000)     Milestones

                      Census of




                                                    86

                              Annex 6: FundRelations Note
 CentralAfrican Republic-Assessment Letter to The Association



                          INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND
                                    WASHINGTON D C 20431




                                                                              February 19, 2009


hls.Obiageli KalrynEzekwesili
Vice President
Mican Region
World Bank


DearMs.Ezckwsili,

         Iampleasedtoattachherewiththcstaff's asse~snicntofreccnteconomic
developments inCentralAfrican Republic andprogressundcr the Fund-supportedprogram
based onpreliminary information through January 2009. We understandthis uvdl l'acilitatc
the prtlvision ofbudget support by the World Hank to Central hthcan Republic.


                                           Yours sincerely,

                                           A



                                          Antoinette M.Sayeh
                                                Director
                                          Afr.icaii Deparlmcnt




Attachinent




n~~SDRlS-#3$35726-vl     -Central African Republic 7-009 Asscsrment Letter Cavcr Lcttcr to Vioc PrcsiJent
                                                  -     -                 -
of Africiin Februiry 19, 20W (10'34 AM)




                                                  87

            Ccntral Africuti RL`public-Asscsjmeiit Letter fur the W`orld Rank




Hackground

1,      In December 2006 the Executive Board approved a three-year' arrangement
undcr the Poverty Reductionand Growth Facility (I'KGF) for the CcntrrrlAfrican
Republic (C.A.R). Thc access undcr PRCiFarrarigenicnlaniounts to SDR 36.2 million
(65 percent o f quota). After conipleting thc second rcview uririer the PRGF arrangcirient in
June 2008, the ExcculivcBoardapprovedanaugmentnliono faccess cquivalcnt 10
SDR 8.355 million (1 5 pcrcent of quota), On Dcccmbw 22, 2008, tlic Executive Board
coiiiplctcdthe thirdreview under the PRCFarruigeinenl. C.A.R.reachedthe decisiun point
under the enhancedHighlyIndebtedPoor Country(HIPC) initiatiw inSeptcnibcr 2007.

Recent Economic Developments

2.      The C.A.R. ~EOI~OIII~,though growing, is confronting unexpected major shocks.
Breakdowns at thc mainhydro power plant during 2008 caused vcry serious power outages
that have had negative uconamic and social cffects, andthc intornational financial crisis has
ncgatiwly affected external demand for tjniber and diamond, the country's innin exports, A s
a result, the growthestimate was rcviscd do.vc..nwitrdto 2.8 fiom 3,s percent expected
previously.Average inflation for 2008 turncd aut to bc 9.3 pcrcmt coniparcdto 2.1 pcrccnt
during2004-07,     Ncvcrthelcss, thc government has beennioyingyigorouslyto achicw
programobjcctives. Rcvcnuc mobilization efforts haw broughtsteady increases inthe
doniestic revenue-to-GDP ratio, and the authoritiescontrolspending tightfy.

3.      Despite the growtli slow d o ~ noverall economic perfor~nancein 2008 appears to
                                           ,
tiare beensatisfactory.Provisional budget cxcculiondata for 2008 indicatesthal revtnucs
heldup, expendilures ttlcre contained, and a sniall domcslic prirnary surplus was gencfiml,
Donrcstic revenueincreasedby closc to I O percent, rcflectingongoing efforts to improx*c
rcvcnuc administration. Expendituresincreasedby lcss thanprogrammed and the donicstic
primarysurphis is cstiniated to be somewhat bcltcr thanprogranimcd.

Performance Under the PliGF-supportedProgram

4,      Preliininnry data collected diiriay n.3arruary 2009 staff visit suggest that
orogrsni performaim for end-2008 appears to be broiidlysatisfactory. Most.of the
quantitativc targets through Dcccciibcrarc cxpccted to have bceiv nchievcd, and progresshas
becnmadc with slructural rcfurrxis, atbeit in soma instanccs with cieiny. Keytileastires t a l w
duringthc last qiianer of2008 and in,lanuarp 2009 inchide the adjustment ofpetrolcurxi

                                                2


         line wilh thc attemalic qtiarterly pctrolcumpricing forniula ;and thc adoption and
         cation o f a planto repaydomestic arrears. There has bccn progr
slructtirulreforms ta iirtprovc tax audits, facilitate administrationo f lnrgc
  w taxpaycrs, consolichteIrcasuryilccounls, improvc rhc public         BCCOII
       henpublic financial nianageineitt I1iroughthe introduciioii of a g
        mcni infornisrtion systeni,

Risks and Clialhrrges

5.      C.A.K.'s medium-tcrinoutlook remahispositive, but several risksare merging
as a consequeticeof the current glottal financial crisisatid economic stotvdawn.Thc
globaleconomic $10            is affectingcxportv                   ly tiiiibcr an3 diatriands, and
foreigndirect inve           Growtt~In2009 is likely to be limited to 3 pcrccnt, coiiiparcd wi11i
4.5 pcrccnt project           the I`RCiF-silpporrcd program,Rcvc c shortrulls arc emer
in2009, particularly from thc Ibrcstryand miningsectors. Inflation is expected to conic
down in 2009. The acceleration o fCPl inklationto 9.3 pcrccnt on averagc in2008 is a
conccm, but this mostlyrctlects higher roodprices whose iiiipact sliould imdrratc this }car.

6.      Continuedsupport from the internationalcomaiurtity 3s itnportailt to ensure
                   rogram objectives. Additional resourcesarc rrccdcdlo consolidate pcticcc
                   the succcssfU1inclusivc political dialogue in December2008 and in
advance of ycncral elccti      in 2010. Tlic 2009 Iiudgctdocs not allocate suflicicttt r
10 scveral important progrrtins inthcsc areas,

7.      Currelitestimates of externalsupport will likely not alluw for a full execution nf
the 2009 budget.Thc aulhoritiesare considering optionsto iziobilize revcnucs throughoul
thc coursc of the year to i ~ e cprogramtargclsand wc prioritizing expenditures so as to
                                 l
prutcct lhc mostprcssingexpenditureneeds, The ncxt IMF mission will discuss a t
                surcs that niay be n c c d d to cnsure a dntiicstic primary sui1,lus consistent witti
the govcrnmcnt's arrcars mpaymenlplan.

8'      The latest low-income country debt sustiiinnhllityatialysis(LlC-DS.4)conduetctl
In December 2008 shows that C.A.R.'s esternaldebt is at high risk of distress, Howvcr,
following fult deliveryo fEIIPC, MDRI,and other debt rcticf at Ibc HIPC canlplctiunpiiit,
exlernaldcbt dynamics are projectedto beconlc nianagceblc. The HLPCcmpletionpoint
could be reachcd inJunc 2009. Thc authorities` dctcrnzincdcKorts to improve treasury
mnnagcnienr, notably tltroughthe ostablishnicnt ofa Preawysinglc ~ccollnt
rcgulnrimtion ofrelations with domsstic crcdilors,should t          p kccp donicslic dubt at
sustainable le~rcls.




                                                   89

                                                3




9.       A Fund mission visited BanguiIn , J a n ~ i20119~irt preparationfor the niiaiun
                                                         i ~
f o r the 4t1'review under the PKCF arrangement$which is scheduled far April 2003, The
mssiun,jointly with a World Bank tcani, will also ond duct ttic   BSSCSSITICIII ofthc iloating
triggers for lhc HIPC coiiiplrtionpoint and will preparethe coiriplctionpoint document ifthc
               ion of ttic triggcrs arc salishcto~y.The Executivc Board11
scheduled for June 2009.




                                                  90

                                                        Annex 7: Country at a Glance
 Central African Republic at a glance                                                                                                        4/8/08

                                                                    Central         Sub-
Key Development Indicators                                          African      Saharan         Low
                                                                   Republic         Africa    income            Age dlstrlbutlon, 2008
(2007)                                                                                                                     Male               Female

Population,mid-year (millions)                                   ,      4.3           770       2,403           70.74
Surfacearea (thousandsq. km)                                           623         24,265      29,215
Populationgrowth (%)                                                                                            50.84
                                                                        1.8           2.3         1.8
Urbanpopulation (X of total population)                                 36             36          30           50.54
                                                                                                                4 w 4

GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                         1.5           648       1,562           30.34          4
GNIper capita (Atlasmethod, US$)                                       350            842         650           20.24
GNI per capita (PPP, international$)                                      0         2,032       2,698

GDP growth (%)                                                          4.0           5.6         8.0                20      10       0       10        20
GDP per capita growth(%)                                                2.1           3.2         6.1                              percent

(most recent estimate, 2000-2007)

Povertyheadcountratioat $1 a day (PPP. %)                                67 '          41
Povertyheadcount ratioat $2 a day (PPP. %)                               84 '           72                      Under4 mortality rate (per 1,000)
Life expectancyat birth(years)                                           39             47         59
Infantmortality(per 1,000 livebirths)                                   115             96         75
Childmalnutrition(% of children under 5)                                 24             29                      200

Adult literacy, male(X of ages 15 and older)                              0             69         72           150
Adult literacy. female (% of ages 15 andolder)                            0             50         50
Gross primaryenroilment,male(% ofage group)                              67             98        108           100

Gross primaryenrollment,female (% of age group)                          44             86         96            50

Access to an improvedwater source (Yoof population)                      75             56         75             0
Access to improvedsanitationfacilities(YOof population)                  27             37         38                     1880   1885   2000   2005

                                                                                                                          0CentralAfricanRepublic
                                                                                                                          0SubSaharanAfnca

Net Aid Flows                                             1980        1990          2000        2007

                                                                                                                                                          I
(US%millions)
NetODA and officialaid                                      110         249             75         95          IGrowth of GDP and GDP per caplta (Oh)
Top 3 donors(in 2005):
  France                                                      69         71             19         35           10
  UnitedStates                                                 1          3              1         17            8
  Germany                                                      3         14              7          3           8
                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                 2
Aid (% of GNI)                                             13.8        17.0            8.0        7.0            0
Aid per capita (US$)                                          47         83             19         23            2
                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                a
Long-Term Economic Trends                                                                                        8
                                                                                                               -10
                                                                                                                               85                   05
Consumerprices (annual% change)                            14.7         -0.2           3.2        3.1
GDP implicitdeflator (annual% change)                       18.3         2.3           3.2        2.5          I   +GDP            -GDP       per capita  I

Terms of trade index(2000 = 100)
Exchangerate (annualaverage, local per US$)               211.3       272.3         712.0       504.2
                                                                        110           100          74
                                                                                                                   1980-90   1990-2000      200047
                                                                                                                       (average annualgrowth %)
Population. mid-year (millions)                               2.3        3.0           3.9        4.3                  2.6           2.5         1.7
GDP (US$ millions)                                          797       1,488           959       1,651                   1.4          2.0         0.1
                                                                        (% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                 40.0       47.6           53.1        56.2                  1.6          3.8         0.7
Industry                                                    20.1       19.7           15.8        15.5                  1.4          0.7         0.6
  Manufacturing                                               7.2      11.3            7.0         7.6                 5.0          -0.2         0.8
Services                                                    39.9       32.7           31.0        28.3                  1.o         -0.3        -1.7

Householdfinal consumption expenditure                      93.7       85.7           80.8        88.3                                           0.4
Generalgov't final consumption.expenditure                  15.1       14.9           14.0         9.5                                          -3.6
Gross capital formation                                       7.0      12.3            9.5         9.1                                           0.0

Exportsof goods and services                                25.2       14.8           19.8        14.8                                          -1.6
Imports of goods and services                               41.1       27.6           24.1        21.7                                          -2.3
Gross savings                                                 1.6       -0.4           8.2         4.9


Note: Figures in italicsare for years other than those specifled.2007 data are preliminary. Group data are through2006. indicatesdata are notavailable.
                                                                                                                         ..
a. Countrypovertyestimateis for earlier period. b. Aid data are for 2005.

Development Economics, DevelopmentData Group (DECDG).




                                                                               91

Millennium Development Goals                                                                                       Central African Republic


Withselecfed fargets to achieve behveen 7990and 2075
(esbmate closesf to date shown, +/- 2 years)


Goal 1:halve the rates for $1 a day poverty and malnutrition                                         1990        1995           2000         2005
 Povertyheadcountratio at $1 a day (PPP, % of population)                                                         66.6
 Povertyheadcountratio at national povertyline (% of population)
 Share of income or consumptionto the poorest qunitiie (%)
  Prevalenceof malnutrition(% of children under 5)

Goal 2: ensure that children are able to complete primary schooling
  Primaryschoolenrollment (net, %)                                                                    52
  Primarycornpietionrate (% of relevantage group)                                                      29                                      23
  Secondaryschool enrollment (gross, %)                                                                7 7                        12
 Youth literacyrate (% of peopleages 15-24)                                                           48                          59

Goal 3: eliminate gender disparity in education and empower women
  Ratio of girls to boys in primaryand secondaryeducation(%)                                          60
  Women employedin the nonagriculturalsector (% of nonagriculturalemployment)                          30
  Proportionof seats held by women in national parliament(%)                                             4           4              7          7 7

Goal 4: reduce under4 mortality by two-thirds
  Underd mortalityrate (per 1,000)                                                                    168          180            193         193
  Infantmortalityrate (per 1,000 live births)                                                         102          107            115         115
  Measlesimmunization(proportionof one-year oids immunized,%)                                          83           46            36           35

Goal 5: reduce maternal mortality by three-fourths
  Maternalmortalityratio (modeledestimate, per 100,000 live births)                                                             1,100
  Birthsattendedby skilled healthstaff (% of total)                                                                 46            44

Goal 6: halt and begin to reversethe spread of HIWAIDSand other major diseases
  Prevalenceof HIV (% of DoDulationases 15-49)                                                                                               10 7
  Contraceptiveprevalence        (kof  women ages 15-49)                                                            15             28
  incidence of tuberculosis(per 100,000 people)                                                       117          205            280         314
  Tuberculosiscases detected under DOTS (%)                                                                        61               9          40

Goal 7: halve the proportionof people without sustainable access to basic needs
  Access to an Improvedwater source (% of population)                                                  52           59             70          75
  Access to improvedsanitationfacilities (% of population)                                             23           24             26          27
  Forestarea (% of total land area)                                                                  37.2                        36.8         36.5
  Nationallyprotectedareas (% of total land area)                                                                                            16.6
  C02 emissions (metrictons per capita)                                                               0.1          0.1            0.1         0.1
  GDP per unit of energy use (constant2000 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)

Goal 8: develop a global partnership for development
  Fixedline and mobile phone subscribers(per 1,000 people)                                               2           2              4          27
  Internetusers (per 1,000 people)                                                                       0           0              1            3
  Personalcomputers(per 1,000 people)                                                                                               2            3
  Youth unemployment(% of total labor force ages 15-24)


    2:L
   Education indicators (%)                               Measles immunization (%of 1-year olds)


                                                                    n                              II      IC1Indicators (per 1,000 people)


                                                                                                                                         n



                                                           50



           20w          2002               2005            25


                                                             0
                                                                    1880    1895   2000    2005
       +Primary         netenrollmentratio(..)                                                     I
       +Ratio        of girls to boys inprimaryB                     OCentralAfricanRepublic                       OFixed+ nubilesubscribers
               secondary education( .)                               0Sub-SaharanAfrica                            0Internetusers



Note: Figuresin italics are for years other than those specified...indicatesdata are not available.                                         4/8/08

 DevelopmentEconomics, DevelopmentData Group (DECDG).




                                                                              92

                                                        16E                                    18E                                          20E                              22E                             24E


                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Nyala
                                                                                                C H A D
                                                                                                                                                               To                              Birao
                                                                                                                                                             Am Timan                                                                  CENTRAL
               10N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10N
                                                                                                                                                                    BahrOulou                                                          AFRICAN
                                                                                                                                                                                 VA K A G A                                            REPUBLIC



                                                                                                                                B ahr  Ao u k                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                      Ouanda                        Kafia Kingi
                                                                                                                                                                                        Djall
                                                                                                                                                                                        Djall
                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                              Sarh                     B A M I N G U I - B A N G O R A N                          g o  s
                                                                                                                                                                                     d  s    Bon

                                                                                                                    Makouma
                                                                                                                    Makouma                 Bangoran                                 e
                                                                                                                                                     Ndl
                                                                                                                                                     Ndl
                                                                                                                                                                       C   hin  e


               8N                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                             Pata       Ouadda              Kaouadja                                                    8N
                                                          To                  Doba
                                                     Babokoum                                                                                                                                                                                      SUDAN
                                                                                  Markounda                           Gribingui              Bamingui                                      H A U T E - K O T T O

                                            untainsBocaranga   Paoua                           Batangafo

                                                     O U H A M -                        O U H A M                G R I B I N G U I
                                                                                                                                Kaga                               Yangalia            Kotto
                                         MoMt.          P E N D                                                                Bandoro

                                                Ngaoui                                                                                                                                                                                   H A U T-
                   To                                                                     Ouham         Bouca                                              O U A K A              Bria                 Yalinga
               Melganga            Karre   (1,420 m)
                                                                       Bozoum             Bossangoa                                                                                                                                    M B O M O U
                                                                                                                             Dkoa
                                                                                                                             Dkoa                    Ouaka           Ippy
                                                                                                                   KMO-
                                                                                                                   KMO-                                                                                                            Djma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Djma
               6N                        Bouar                                                                 GRIBINGUI                                                                                                                                               6N
                                                                                                                                                                                                 M B O M O U
                  To                              Baoro                                                                                                     Bambari                                                                        O uarra
               Btar Oya        N A N A -                                                                           Sibut                Grimari                                       Bakouma
                              M A MMBambRr                                     Bossembl
                                                                                   Bossembl    Mpoko
                                                                           Lobaye                                                                                                                 Mbari             Chinko                                 Obo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                          O M B E L L A -                                                                      Mingala                                            Zmio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Zmio                               Naandi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Rafa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Rafa                    Mbomou

                                               Carnot                                        M P O K O                                                            B A S S E
                                                                                                              Damara           Ubangi  Kouango
                                                                                                                                                                K O T T O             Bangassou
                                     H A U T E S A N G H A
                                                                                                  BANGUI                                                                                         To                            CENTRAL AFRICAN
                                                                                                                                                                     Mobaye
                                                       Berberati                                                                                                                                Monga
                           To                                             Mbar          Boda
                                                                                                                                                                                    Ouango
                                                                                                        Bimbo
                         Batouri         Gamboula                                  L O B AY E
               4N                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                    Mbaki
                                                                                                    Mbaki    Libenge

                                  To                Kade                                                    Mongoumba
                              Yokadouma              Nola
                                           Tomori    S A N H A                                                                     DEM. REP.                                                                                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                               Salo                                                              OF CONGO                           0      40  80   120    160 200 Kilometers                              PREFECTURE CAPITALS

                  CAMEROON                                      aSngha                                                                                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                    0        40       80       120 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RIVERS

                                                                            CONGO                                                                                                                                                          MAIN ROADS
SEPTEMBER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD
               2N                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PRFECTURE BOUNDARIES                  33384
         2004                                                                                                    Congo
                                                        16E                                    18E                                          20E                              22E                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

